286	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-21	This followed an article published by Newsweek in which two psychologists mused on the human taboo against cannibalism, noting that "philosophers have argued that burying the dead could be wasteful in the context of the fight against world hunger."	Drink your iced latte with a paper straw, don't have kids, and when you die, remember to donate your human flesh to a local restaurant.	Bokhari: Elites Want You to Eat Bugs, Live in Sewer Pipes, and Submit to Population Control Progressive political elites have decided that in order to save the environment, ordinary citizens must submit to radical lifestyle changes (while those same elites fly around the world on private jets and enrich themselves from trade with China, the world's biggest polluter).	com.	Cannibalism for the climate — that's how far they've gone!Population control is another solution embraced by geniuses on the left.		Bokhari: Elites Want You to Eat Bugs, Live in Sewer Pipes, and Submit to Population Control Progressive political elites have decided that in order to save the environment, ordinary citizens must submit to radical lifestyle changes (while those same elites fly around the world on private jets and enrich themselves from trade with China, the world's biggest polluter). The reality may even be worse than the headline. Not only have progressive environmentalists suggested that we all switch to a diet of bugs instead of meat (especially steak, because cow farts produce carbon dontcha know), one Swedish scientist even suggested we devour the flesh of deceased humans to cut greenhouse emissions. This followed an article published by Newsweek in which two psychologists mused on the human taboo against cannibalism, noting that "philosophers have argued that burying the dead could be wasteful in the context of the fight against world hunger." Cannibalism for the climate — that's how far they've gone!Population control is another solution embraced by geniuses on the left. This dystopian idea attracted attention recently after Bernie Sanders brought it up at the last Democrat presidential debate, saying people need to be "need to curb population growth." But Sanders was merely popularizing an idea that's long been the dream of progressive environmentalists. A 2009 study estimated that every human child will produce, on average, 9,441 metric tons of carbon dioxide. As such, climate scientists were agitating for global population control long before Bernie made his comments. Looks like China, despite its pollution, does have something to offer the environmental movement — the one-child policy!Absent from Bernie's argument in favor of curbing the population was an acknowledgment of what it'll do to the economy and public services, two things that the socialist senator allegedly cares about. An aging populace with fewer young people producing tax revenue means a crisis for public services and a shrinking economy. Of course, progressives believe in opening the west's borders to admit millions of working-age people from foreign countries, so maybe that's their solution. Don't forget that we all have to stop driving if we want to save the climate, which means we all have to pack ourselves into dense, unaffordable cities instead of living in the suburbs. As left-wing environmentalists remind us, "suburban sprawl" also "contributes significantly to deforestation." But are there enough affordable homes in the cities?Well, that depends on how you define "a home." Is a recycled sewer pipe a home? The OPod Tube House is the latest "solution" imagined for young people who can't afford a real house or apartment in the city. These "homes" are constructed from recycled industrial piping, and are designed to be stacked on top of each other. If that isn't enough of a dystopian cyberpunk nightmare for you, consider "parasite pods" — small homes designed to be attached to larger structures like skyscrapers and bridges. They're "parasitic" — and we must credit the architectural students who came up with the concept for their refreshingly honest choice of name — because they cling to larger structures. Are you ready to be a parasite, for the environment?Fried insects for lunch, in your parasite pod, single-occupancy of course. Cycle everywhere, unless you want to face crippling carbon taxes. Drink your iced latte with a paper straw, don't have kids, and when you die, remember to donate your human flesh to a local restaurant. Meanwhile, our ruling class continues to fly to climate change summits on private jets, own multiple CO2-emitting homes, and advocate for unrestricted trade with pollution world champ China. Do globalist progressive elites really not know why so many ordinary people hate them?Are you an insider at Google, Facebook, Twitter or any other tech company who wants to confidentially reveal wrongdoing or political bias at your company? Reach out to Allum Bokhari at his secure email address allumbokhari@protonmail. com. Allum Bokhari is the senior technology correspondent at Breitbart News.	True
115	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-01-08	U.S.	We're addressing the issue."	At Interior, Zinke overturned an Obama-era moratorium on new coal leases on federal land, scrapped a hydraulic fracturing rule meant to better protect public health and curtailed a rule limiting the amount of methane that can be released from oil and gas operations on federal and Native American lands.	Administration officials have touted these declines to explain their push to boost fossil fuels, as well as to defend the president's decision last year to withdraw the U.S. from the historic Paris accord on combating climate change."	Former Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, who resigned Jan. 2 under a cloud of ethics scandals, told the National Petroleum Council last month that the administration's "regulatory philosophy" is to partner with the fossil fuel sector, which he said was at "the leading edge of technology."		U.S. Emissions Spike Undercuts Trump Administration Push For Fossil Fuel Use The Trump administration has repeatedly pointed to declines in U.S. carbon emissions to justify its fossil fuel-focused "energy dominance" agenda. But a new analysis has delivered a blow to that defense, concluding that the nation's greenhouse gas emissions rose sharply in 2018. Emissions in the country jumped 3.4 percent last year, the second largest annual increase in more than two decades, according to a preliminary estimate by the economic research company Rhodium Group. The analysis comes on the heels of two gut-wrenching climate reports, one by the United Nations and another authored by scientists from more than a dozen federal agencies in the U.S., that warn the world is running out of time to stave off catastrophic, and potentially irreversible, climate change. The Trump administration continues to dismiss and downplay the crisis. "I don't believe it," President Donald Trump, who has a long history of climate change denial, said of his own administration's report. He added that "we're the cleanest we've ever been." Between 2005 and 2017, CO2 emissions in the U.S. fell by about 14 percent. Administration officials have touted these declines to explain their push to boost fossil fuels, as well as to defend the president's decision last year to withdraw the U.S. from the historic Paris accord on combating climate change." e are moving forward, but we are not moving forward in a detrimental impact to our economy as what the Paris climate accord would have called for," Wheeler said. "We are reducing our CO2 emissions faster than most other developed countries. We have our own plan. We're moving forward. We're addressing the issue." Former Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, who resigned Jan. 2 under a cloud of ethics scandals, told the National Petroleum Council last month that the administration's "regulatory philosophy" is to partner with the fossil fuel sector, which he said was at "the leading edge of technology." The U.S. has "lead the charge" in cutting emissions of CO2 and methane, a potent greenhouse gas, he added." veryone else is up," he said, referring to other countries' overall emissions. "We're going down while we have our record-breaking oil and gas production." But as Rhodium Group's new analysis makes clear, that was not the case in 2018. The emissions uptick ― the largest since the economic bounce back from the recession that ended in mid-2009 ― comes despite a record number of coal-fired power plants going offline, replaced largely by the use of natural gas. Along with an 1.9 percent spike in power sector emissions, increases occurred in the transportation, industry and buildings sectors, according to Rhodium. Contributing to the overall increase were the growing U.S. economy, a cold start to the year that required additional energy for heating, and the "limited progress made in developing decarbonization strategies," the analysis found." ith a new Congress in session, we demand they heed these warnings (about climate change) and step up to act at the scale of the crisis," she said in a statement. The administration has aggressively rolled back environmental and climate regulations, including President Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan, a policy limiting greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. At Interior, Zinke overturned an Obama-era moratorium on new coal leases on federal land, scrapped a hydraulic fracturing rule meant to better protect public health and curtailed a rule limiting the amount of methane that can be released from oil and gas operations on federal and Native American lands. Even amid the current partial government shutdown, the administration has prioritized fossil fuels. The Interior Department, one of the main agencies affected by the shutdown. is still issuing permits for oil companies, according to Bloomberg. And the agency is continuing its push to open Alaska's fragile Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling, holding public meetings as part of its ongoing environmental review process, Alaska Public Media reported.	False
40	foxnews	right_bias	2019-08-22	He also promises "justice for frontline communities" via a $40 billion "Climate Justice Resiliency Fund" as well as an extra $200 billion to the Green Climate Fund.	In a nod to the social justice part of the plan, he says that the deal is an "opportunity to uproot historical injustices and inequities to advance social, racial, and economic justice, including redressing the exclusion of black, brown, Native American and other vulnerable communities from the programs that made up the original New Deal."	According to the campaign, revenue will be generated via a host of measures, including slapping the fossil fuel industry with fees, litigation and taxes, and generating revenue from the sale of energy.	SANDERS CALLS FOR 'REGISTRY OF DISREPUTABLE FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS,' CUTTING PRISON POPULATION IN HALFThe Vermont senator has long been an advocate for the Green New Deal, but only this year has it become a central policy for many of those seeking the Democratic nomination for president.	Sanders' plan is no different, promising that he will "generate the political will necessary for a wholesale transformation of our society" and proposing $16.3 trillion in public investments.		Sanders releases $16 trillion 'Green New Deal' plan, promises it will 'pay for itself' Democratic 2020 hopeful Sen. Bernie Sanders on Thursday released his plan for a Green New Deal – promising that the multitrillion-dollar plan to radically overhaul the economy and combat climate change will "pay for itself" over the next 15 years." s president, Bernie Sanders will launch the decade of the Green New Deal, a ten-year, nationwide mobilization centered around justice and equity during which climate change will be factored into virtually every area of policy, from immigration to trade to foreign policy and beyond," his campaign said in a press release. SANDERS CALLS FOR 'REGISTRY OF DISREPUTABLE FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS,' CUTTING PRISON POPULATION IN HALFThe Vermont senator has long been an advocate for the Green New Deal, but only this year has it become a central policy for many of those seeking the Democratic nomination for president. This year, it was given a big push in Congress when Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., and Sen. Ed Markey, D-Mass., introduced a formal resolution on it – which stalled in the Senate but drew support from a number of 2020 hopefuls. All versions of such plans have gone beyond direct energy-related policies, instead seeking to overhaul the economy and society at large. Sanders' plan is no different, promising that he will "generate the political will necessary for a wholesale transformation of our society" and proposing $16.3 trillion in public investments. In addition to promises that include reaching 100 percent renewable energy by 2030 and decarbonization by 2050 and ending unemployment by creating 20 million "good paying" jobs tied to clean energy, Sanders claims he will save families money with a host of policies -- including launching universal high-speed Internet, weatherizing homes, building new public transportation and rebuilding America's infrastructure. Among those promises are a $681 billion program for families and small businesses to trade in old vehicles for newer, more energy-efficient motors – a souped-up version of the Obama administration-era "Cash for Clunkers" program. He also promises "justice for frontline communities" via a $40 billion "Climate Justice Resiliency Fund" as well as an extra $200 billion to the Green Climate Fund. The plan also promises support for the "climate justice movement" to take on the fossil fuel industry and other polluters and "lead the globe in solving the climate crisis." In a nod to the social justice part of the plan, he says that the deal is an "opportunity to uproot historical injustices and inequities to advance social, racial, and economic justice, including redressing the exclusion of black, brown, Native American and other vulnerable communities from the programs that made up the original New Deal." But the White House hopeful also promises that the plan will pay for itself over 16 years, saying experts have scored the plan and its economic effects. According to the campaign, revenue will be generated via a host of measures, including slapping the fossil fuel industry with fees, litigation and taxes, and generating revenue from the sale of energy. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPFurther sources of revenue or savings include tax revenue from the proposed 20 million jobs, higher taxes on the wealthy, lower military spending, and a reduced need for welfare spending "due to the creation of millions of good-paying, unionized jobs." Any such plan is unlikely to get any Republican support -- and would almost certainly rely entirely on Democrats having strong majorities in both the House and Senate should Sanders win the nomination and the presidency.	False
833	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-06-02	e can't sit back and just do nothing while people are getting sick and dying, especially when you know there's another way."	My message to you, Mr. President, is that as a public servant, and especially as a president, your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people," Schwarzenegger begins.	The trouble is, President Trump would heartily agree with Schwarzenegger's point (while perhaps debating the exact statistics).	But this has nothing to do with the Paris climate accord.	Meanwhile, he should probably think about terminating that video.		In Embarrassing Anti-Trump Rant, Schwarzenegger Misses the Point of Paris Climate Deal After watching Schwarzenegger's video, in fact, it becomes immediately evident that the actor and former politician has never read the Paris climate accord and has no idea what it says." resident Trump says he's pulling out of the Paris climate agreement. My message to you, Mr. President, is that as a public servant, and especially as a president, your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people," Schwarzenegger begins. He then proceeds to chronicle the negative effects of pollution in the United States." wo hundred thousand people die every year in the U.S. from air pollution, and half of our rivers and streams are too polluted for our health," he says." e can't sit back and just do nothing while people are getting sick and dying, especially when you know there's another way." Schwarzenegger goes on to suggest that without the Paris accord, we will face a "dirty energy future with asthma, emphysema and cancer." The trouble is, President Trump would heartily agree with Schwarzenegger's point (while perhaps debating the exact statistics). According to President Trump, clean air and water are exactly the issues that the EPA should be dealing with. But this has nothing to do with the Paris climate accord. Nowhere does the 25-page agreement deal with battling air pollution or cleaning up rivers and streams. It deals specifically with reducing greenhouse gas emissions, particularly carbon dioxide (CO2), with the stated objective of combatting "global warming." Carbon dioxide is not a toxic gas. No one is dying from CO2 "air pollution," or from rivers and streams polluted with carbon dioxide. Some climate scientists, in fact, have argued that more carbon dioxide, not less, would be beneficial to the environment and to humanity. Growers regularly pump it into their greenhouses to achieve healthier, heartier plants. Everything Schwarzenegger mentions in his short video—from air pollution to clean water to asthma, emphysema and cancer—is completely unrelated to the President's decision to withdraw from the Paris accord. So maybe the next time he decides to criticize the decision to get the U.S. out of the Paris accord he should read the document first. Meanwhile, he should probably think about terminating that video.	False
733	Vox	left_bias	2017-06-01	The GOP's leading politicians and media outlets have tended to praise fossil fuel companies and ignore or cast doubt on climate science.	The actual Paris deal — agreed to by 195 countries in December 2015 — is aspirational rather than binding, calling on countries to set goals for emissions reduction.	For years now it's been clear that blocking environmental regulations and obstructing action on climate change are top Republican Party priorities.	The major Republican presidential candidates harshly criticized the Paris deal in particular, and Trump promised to withdraw from it during the campaign.	Still, withdrawing from such a recent agreement that the vast majority of countries across the world have signed on to has serious consequences for America's role as a global leader.		Video: President Trump pulls US out of Paris climate deal President Donald Trump announced his decision to pull the United States out of the Paris climate accord at 3 pm Eastern in the White House Rose Garden. A live stream of the announcement is embedded above. Multiple reports indicate that Trump is likely to announce a withdrawal from the agreement — though many of these reports have expressed at least some uncertainty, including about precisely what language Trump would use. Jonathan Swan of Axios reported that, per "two sources with direct knowledge of the decision," Trump has decided to pull out of the agreement. The Daily Beast's Lachlan Markay reports that the White House is telling congressional staff that Trump will pull out. The Associated Press's Jill Colvin and Julie Pace, though, report that "Trump's decision may not be entirely clear-cut" and that aides continued to deliberate on "caveats in the language." The actual Paris deal — agreed to by 195 countries in December 2015 — is aspirational rather than binding, calling on countries to set goals for emissions reduction. Still, the withdrawal of the US would send an unmistakable signal to the rest of the world that the country with the second-highest carbon emissions is no longer interested in even pretending to care about reducing them. For years now it's been clear that blocking environmental regulations and obstructing action on climate change are top Republican Party priorities. The GOP's leading politicians and media outlets have tended to praise fossil fuel companies and ignore or cast doubt on climate science. The major Republican presidential candidates harshly criticized the Paris deal in particular, and Trump promised to withdraw from it during the campaign. Still, withdrawing from such a recent agreement that the vast majority of countries across the world have signed on to has serious consequences for America's role as a global leader. So the question of whether the US should actually pull out of the agreement has reportedly been the subject of intense debate within the Trump administration. According to Politico's Andrew Restuccia and Josh Dawsey, White House chief strategist Steve Bannon and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt have been the leading voices urging Trump to withdraw, while Ivanka Trump and the so-called "New York" or "globalist" White House camp have been advocating for staying in. Silicon Valley business leaders like Apple CEO Tim Cook and Tesla CEO Elon Musk have also been arguing that the US should stick to the agreement.	False
812	BBC	left_center_bias	2017-10-30	The numbers don't lie.	What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency."	We are still emitting far too much and this needs to be reversed," said Erik Solheim, head of UN Environment."	Despite the declaration by President Trump that he intends to take the US out of the deal, negotiators meeting in Germany will be aiming to advance and clarify the rulebook of the Paris agreement.	This was not expected in the Paris agreement.		Record surge in atmospheric CO2 seen in 2016 Concentrations of CO2 in the Earth's atmosphere surged to a record high in 2016, according to the World Meteorological Organization (WMO). Last year's increase was 50% higher than the average of the past 10 years. Researchers say a combination of human activities and the El Niño weather phenomenon drove CO2 to a level not seen in 800,000 years. This year's greenhouse gas bulletin produced by the WMO, is based on measurements taken in 51 countries. Research stations dotted around the globe measure concentrations of warming gases including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide. The figures published by the WMO are what's left in the atmosphere after significant amounts are absorbed by the Earth's "sinks", which include the oceans and the biosphere.2016 saw average concentrations of CO2 hit 403.3 parts per million, up from 400ppm in 2015." It is the largest increase we have ever seen in the 30 years we have had this network," Dr Oksana Tarasova, chief of WMO's global atmosphere watch programme, told BBC News." The largest increase was in the previous El Niño, in 1997-1998 and it was 2.7ppm and now it is 3.3ppm, it is also 50% higher than the average of the last ten years." El Niño impacts the amount of carbon in the atmosphere by causing droughts that limit the uptake of CO2 by plants and trees. Emissions from human sources have slowed down in the last couple of years according to research, but according to Dr Tarasova, it is the cumulative total in the atmosphere that really matters as CO2 stays aloft and active for centuries. Over the past 70 years, says the report, the increase in CO2 in the atmosphere is nearly 100 times larger than it was at the end of the last ice age. Rapidly increasing atmospheric levels of CO2 and other gases have the potential, according to the study to "initiate unpredictable changes in the climate system... leading to severe ecological and economic disruptions." The study notes that since 1990 there has been a 40% increase in total radiative forcing, that's the warming effect on our climate of all greenhouse gases." Geological-wise, it is like an injection of a huge amount of heat," said Dr Tarasova." The changes will not take ten thousand years like they used to take before, they will happen fast - we don't have the knowledge of the system in this state, that is a bit worrisome!"According to experts, the last time the Earth experienced a comparable concentration of CO2 was three to five million years ago, in the mid-Pliocene era. The climate then was 2-3C warmer, and sea levels were 10-20m higher due to the melting of Greenland and the West Antarctic ice sheets. Other experts in the field of atmospheric research agreed that the WMO findings were a cause for concern." The 3ppm CO2 growth rate in 2015 and 2016 is extreme - double the growth rate in the 1990-2000 decade," Prof Euan Nisbet from Royal Holloway University of London told BBC News." It is urgent that we follow the Paris agreement and switch rapidly away from fossil fuels: there are signs this is beginning to happen, but so far the air is not yet recording the change." Another concern in the report is the continuing, mysterious rise of methane levels in the atmosphere, which were also larger than the average over the past ten years. Prof Nisbet says there is a fear of a vicious cycle, where methane drives up temperatures which in turn releases more methane from natural sources." The rapid increase in methane since 2007, especially in 2014, 2015, and 2016, is different. This was not expected in the Paris agreement. Methane growth is strongest in the tropics and sub-tropics. The carbon isotopes in the methane show that growth is not being driven by fossil fuels. We do not understand why methane is rising. It may be a climate change feedback. It is very worrying." The implications of these new atmospheric measurements for the targets agreed under the Paris climate pact, are quite negative, say observers." The numbers don't lie. We are still emitting far too much and this needs to be reversed," said Erik Solheim, head of UN Environment." We have many of the solutions already to address this challenge. What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency." The report has been issued just a week ahead of the next instalment of UN climate talks, in Bonn. Despite the declaration by President Trump that he intends to take the US out of the deal, negotiators meeting in Germany will be aiming to advance and clarify the rulebook of the Paris agreement. Follow Matt on Twitter and on Facebook	False
315	foxnews	right_bias	2018-09-19	We're for clean air and water, but at the same time, we're for reasonable regulations," Deputy Interior Secretary David Bernhardt told reporters.	"It's bad, and how we counteract it is with a climate summit, with normal people respecting the truth, and communicating that with other normal people, and combating the President of the United States in what are lies, distortions, and quite frankly, bizarre behavior."	California Gov.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	"It's bloody combat."		California Gov. Brown on Trump: 'Something's got to happen to this guy... he's going to undermine America' California Gov. Jerry Brown ramped up his criticism of President Trump in an interview that aired Monday – calling the president a "saboteur" in the fight to combat climate change and saying that "something's got to happen to this guy." Speaking to MSNBC's Andrea Mitchell at an environmental summit in San Francisco last week, Brown tore into Trump for the president's controversial tweets about the death toll in Puerto Rico from last year's Hurricane Maria and urged voters to vote for Democrats in November's midterm elections in an effort to  thwart Trump's agenda." e never had a president who was engaged in this kind of behavior," Brown said. "I mean he's not telling the truth; he keeps changing his mind; he's sabotaging the world order in many respects." Brown added: "It's unprecedented, it's dangerous, and hopefully this election is going to send a strong message to the country; the Democrats will win…something's got to happen to this guy, because if we don't get rid of him, he's going to undermine America and even the world." Under Brown, California has become one of the main opponents to the Trump administration's policies on everything from land use to immigration. But there is perhaps no area where California has been more combative against  the White House agenda than the environment." alifornia has positioned itself as the center of the Trump resistance," Jessica Levinson, a clinical law professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, told Fox News. "It's bloody combat." Earlier this month, Brown signed two pieces of legislation effectively banning the construction of any new offshore oil and gas pipelines in the state's waters. The new laws are meant to thwart a Trump plan to open nearly 1.7 billion acres of coastal waters to drilling. Shortly before the climate conference began last week, the governor also put his signature on legislation phasing out electricity in the state produced by fossil fuels by 2045." t's really extraordinary that the president can deny science like that," Brown told MSNBC of Trump's questioning the veracity of climate change. "It's bad, and how we counteract it is with a climate summit, with normal people respecting the truth, and communicating that with other normal people, and combating the President of the United States in what are lies, distortions, and quite frankly, bizarre behavior." Brown's criticism of Trump appears to have fallen on deaf ears at the White House, as the administration announced on Tuesday that it was rolling back an Obama-era rule meant to curb climate-changing pollution and easing restrictions on energy companies that allow huge volumes of natural gas to escape after drilling it from U.S. lands. The move rescinds much of a 2016 rule adopted under President Barack Obama that forced energy companies to capture methane, a key contributor to climate change. The replacement rule from the Interior Department does not have the same mandates for companies to reduce gas pollution. It comes a week after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency proposed weakening a similar rule for emissions from public and private lands." We're for clean air and water, but at the same time, we're for reasonable regulations," Deputy Interior Secretary David Bernhardt told reporters. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False
240	dailymail	questionable_source	2019-10-02	And all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth.	Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act, then you would be evil.	Right here, right now is where we draw the line.	And if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you.	People are suffering.	But no matter how sad and angry I am, I don't want to believe that. <sep> Being different is not an illness and the current, best available science is not opinions - it's facts. <sep> You are failing us. <sep> 	'You look happier since leaving the US!' Greta Thunberg reassures fans with smiling snap from Quebec Fans of Greta Thunberg have expressed relief after the 16-year-old posted a string of smiling photographs on Instagram. The environmental activist's recent images, taken while touring Canada's east coast in Montreal and Quebec, are in sharp contrast to images of the 16-year-old speaking in an emotionally charged appearance last month at the Climate Action Summit 2019 in New York. A photo of Greta scowling when she spotted Donald Trump went viral. The teenage campaigner, who has 7.2million followers on Instagram, looks decidedly happier since she crossed the border from the US, something which her followers haven't failed to notice. Writing on Instagram, Greta said: 'So happy to say that the following weeks I'll travel slowly through the North American continent, moving southwest and then eventually through South America towards Santiago. I will stop on the way and visit as many places as I can, and of course protest every Friday no matter where I am.'Yesterday the teenager posted an image of herself at the Marine Mammal Interpretation Centre in Tadoussac, Québec, after spending a morning watching whales. The tone of Greta's images have changed significantly since she addressed the United Nations Climate Summit on September 23rd, where she came close to tears in a emotional speech to international delegates. She told them: 'I shouldn't be up here. I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean. Yet you all come to us for hope. How dare you. You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words,'During the same appearance, Greta was seen at the UN headquarters with an enraged expression on her face as US President Donald Trump upstaged her entrance by walking in flanked by news reporters, an image that promptly went viral. Among the comments posted by the environmentalist's followers, many remarked how much happier the teenager had looked in recent days. On Instagram, Jesuissuzette wrote: 'Greta, you look so much happier now that you're out of America. Enjoy your travels. And thank you for your intrepid Climate Crisis campaign.'Last week, Thunberg addressed on social media the negativity she's received for speaking out on climate change, saying: 'Here we go again... As you may have noticed, the haters are as active as ever - going after me, my looks, my clothes, my behaviour and my differences. They come up with every thinkable lie and conspiracy theory. It seems they will cross every possible line to avert the focus, since they are so desperate not to talk about the climate and ecological crisis. Being different is not an illness and the current, best available science is not opinions - it's facts.'Greta, who is taking a sabbatical year from school, arrived in North America in August, taking a two-week crossing on carbon neutral yacht Malizia II to address the United Nations. Greta Thunberg's fiery speech at the UN Climate Action Summit in New York   This is all wrong. I shouldn't be standing here. I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean. Yet you all come to me for hope? How dare you! You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words. And yet I'm one of the lucky ones. People are suffering. People are dying. Entire ecosystems are collapsing. We are in the beginning of a mass extinction. And all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth. How dare you! For more than 30 years the science has been crystal clear. How dare you continue to look away, and come here saying that you are doing enough, when the politics and solutions needed are still nowhere in sight. You say you "hear" us and that you understand the urgency. But no matter how sad and angry I am, I don't want to believe that. Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act, then you would be evil. And I refuse to believe that. The popular idea of cutting our emissions in half in 10 years only gives us a 50% chance of staying below 1.5C degrees, and the risk of setting off irreversible chain reactions beyond human control. Maybe 50% is acceptable to you. But those numbers don't include tipping points, most feedback loops, additional warming hidden by toxic air pollution or the aspects of justice and equity. They also rely on my and my children's generation sucking hundreds of billions of tonnes of your CO2 out of the air with technologies that barely exist. So a 50% risk is simply not acceptable to us – we who have to live with the consequences. To have a 67% chance of staying below a 1.5C global temperature rise – the best odds given by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – the world had 420 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide left to emit back on 1 January 2018. Today that figure is already down to less than 350 gigatonnes. How dare you pretend that this can be solved with business-as-usual and some technical solutions. With today's emissions levels, that remaining CO2 budget will be entirely gone in less than eight and a half years. There will not be any solutions or plans presented in line with these figures today. Because these numbers are too uncomfortable. And you are still not mature enough to tell it like it is. You are failing us. But the young people are starting to understand your betrayal. The eyes of all future generations are upon you. And if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you. We will not let you get away with this. Right here, right now is where we draw the line. The world is waking up. And change is coming, whether you like it or not.	False
43	thedailycaller	right_bias	2019-03-12	org.	Both lawmakers were responding to a question asked by Axios' Amy Harder during the event.	"There's a resolution that has a dream, but there's no bill, there's no contents at all."	Republicans, on the other hand, want to get Democrats on the record in support of a proposal they see as socialism.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.		Manchin, Murkowski United In Opposition To The Green New Deal The top lawmakers on the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources were unified in their opposition to the Green New Deal and unreadiness to back taxes on carbon dioxide emissions." here's no such thing as a new green deal," West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin said during a Monday night panel at an international energy conference in Houston. "There's a resolution that has a dream, but there's no bill, there's no contents at all." Manchin, a Democrat, appeared alongside Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski, a Republican, at the event, hosted by the consulting firm IHS Markit. Murkowski chairs the Senate energy committee and Manchin is the ranking Democrat. Manchin favors using fossil fuels, like coal, into the future, but wants to fund technology to offset carbon dioxide emissions or sequester them underground. Murkowski said the Green New Deal was "distracting" from bipartisan efforts to fight global warming." W]e have to work within the systems we have and make sure we are not destroying our economy at the same time we're moving to a lower-carbon economy," Murkowski said. As it stands now, the Green New Deal is a non-binding resolution with a series of broad goals for fighting global warming, including "net-zero" greenhouse gas emissions, retrofitting every building, expanding high-speed rail, universal health care and job guarantees. Many Democrats, including 2020 presidential hopefuls, back the Green New Deal, which was introduced by Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Democratic Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey in early February. (RELATED: John Kasich Praises The Green New Deal)However, Senate Democrats are trying to avoid having to vote on the Green New Deal resolution. Republicans, on the other hand, want to get Democrats on the record in support of a proposal they see as socialism. Manchin and Murkowski also said they " are not ready to support a carbon tax," despite support from some large oil and gas companies, The Washington Examiner's Joshua Siegel tweeted. Both lawmakers were responding to a question asked by Axios' Amy Harder during the event. Most Republicans oppose a carbon tax, though a handful have joined oil and gas majors and Democrats to push carbon tax proposals. The most recent high-profile carbon tax effort was led by former Florida GOP Rep. Carlos Curbelo, who introduced a bill to use emissions taxes to fund the federal Highway Trust Fund. However, Curbelo's policy went nowhere in the House and he lost his re-election bid in 2018. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
664	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-04-27	"My question is, 'Why us?'	How are they going to get there?	And in a visit last week to East Chicago, Indiana, which is grappling with a lead contamination crisis affecting both the water and soil, Pruitt reportedly denied to a resident of the town that Region 5 was on the chopping block.	f we have the most industry and we do the most enforcement and get the greatest results, what better way to disembowel the EPA than going after Region 5?"	And to be honest, that's why it's being suggested," the employee said.		Closing EPA's Great Lakes Office Would Put Nation's Water At Risk, Dems Warn Scott Pruitt That was the sober but urgent warning from congressional Democrats who on Tuesday penned a letter to EPA head Scott Pruitt urging him to preserve the Great Lakes area office amid rumors it could be shuttered as part of the Trump administration's efforts to slash the EPA's budget." PA Region 5 is critical to protecting the air, drinking water and health of residents in the six Great Lakes states the region serves, and closing its headquarters in Chicago would make EPA less efficient and effective in its efforts to protect human health and the environment," read the letter. And in a visit last week to East Chicago, Indiana, which is grappling with a lead contamination crisis affecting both the water and soil, Pruitt reportedly denied to a resident of the town that Region 5 was on the chopping block. About a month ago, the union got three press calls in the same day asking if it had heard there was announcement Region 5 might be closed. The Office of Management and Budget also issued a memo in March asking the EPA to propose two regions for elimination. Then, two weekends ago, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel issued a statement in support of keeping Region 5 open following reports in the Chicago Sun-Times and Politico that it was on the chopping block." here are about 1,000 people in Region 5 and it has the most industrial regions of all of the EPA," the employee, who asked not to be named for fear of reprisal, told HuffPost. "My question is, 'Why us?' We're a big region in terms of geography. It takes four hours [flying] to get to the edge of the whole region." There are a lot of folks who simply won't do the move. And to be honest, that's why it's being suggested," the employee said. "The Trump administration suggested getting rid of 31 percent of the budget ― about 3,000 employees, which is about 20 percent of the EPA workforce. How are they going to get there? It's a lot easier to combine regions knowing that many of the staff in Region 5 would not want to move to Kansas City." Members of Congress who signed Tuesday's letter underscored the important role the region plays in ensuring a quick response to spills and contamination in the six states, which are criss-crossed with oil and gas pipelines ― spills often near the bulk of the nation's freshwater supply and the Mississippi River waterways. Mikulka, the EPA employees' union president, said shuttering Region 5 would be an effective way to hobble an agency whose mission is largely at odds with the Trump administration's deregulation-oriented, anti-climate-protection stance." f we have the most industry and we do the most enforcement and get the greatest results, what better way to disembowel the EPA than going after Region 5?"	False
640	Fox News	right_bias	2017-06-02	Wherever we live, whoever we are, we all share the same responsibility: make our planet great again," Macron added.	Fox, who has clashed with Trump since last year's presidential campaign, said the U.S. leader's decision "condemns this generation and those to come" and would leave "a dark legacy just to satisfy your greediness."	While traveling abroad last week, Trump was repeatedly pressed to stay in the deal by European leaders and Pope Francis.	He said, "I do respect this decision but I do think it is an actual mistake both for the U.S. and for our planet."	The Associated Press contributed to this report.		Paris agreement on climate change: World reaction to US pullout World leaders reacted with dismay Thursday to President Trump's announcement that he was pulling out of the Paris climate accord, while three prominent European heads of state rejected his suggestion that the deal could be renegotiated. French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and  and Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni said in a joint statement that they regretted the United States' decision to withdraw from the accord, but affirmed "our strongest commitment" to implement its measures and encouraged "all our partners to speed up their action to combat climate change." While Trump said the United States would be willing to rejoin the accord if it could obtain more favorable terms, the three European leaders said the agreement cannot be renegotiated, "since it is a vital instrument for our planet, societies and economics." Macron repeated that belief in an English-language speech from the Elysee presidential palace, unprecedented from a French president in an address at home. He said, "I do respect this decision but I do think it is an actual mistake both for the U.S. and for our planet." Wherever we live, whoever we are, we all share the same responsibility: make our planet great again," Macron added. The European Union's top climate change official, Miguel Arias Canente, said in a statement that Trump's decision to leave the Paris accord made it "a sad day for the global community," adding that the bloc "deeply regrets the unilateral decision." Canete also predicted that the EU would seek new alliances from the world's largest economies to the most vulnerable island states, as well as U.S. businesses and individuals supportive of the accord.U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris climate agreement "a major disappointment" and said it was "crucial that the United States remains a leader on environmental issues," according to his spokesman. Norway's largest pension fund with 53 billion euro ($59.5 billion) in assets under its management said it would continue to invest in renewable energy despite the American president's decision, saying in a statement that "Donald Trump is jumping off a train that has already left the station." Chief executive Odd Arild Grefstad cited the growth of renewable energy in U.S. states such as Texas, New York and California as signs that "the world has started the transition from fossil to a renewable economy." In Mexico, former President Vicente Fox criticized Trump's move, saying on Twitter: "He's declaring war on the planet itself." Fox, who has clashed with Trump since last year's presidential campaign, said the U.S. leader's decision "condemns this generation and those to come" and would leave "a dark legacy just to satisfy your greediness." Bill Ford, chairman of the Ford Motor Co., also weighed in, saying: "We believe climate change is real, and remain deeply committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in our vehicles and our facilities." Before Trump announced his decision Thursday afternoon, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang told reporters during a visit to Berlin that fighting global warming was a "global consensus" and an "international responsibility." Without mentioning the U.S. specifically, Li said that "China in recent years has stayed true to its commitment" and pointed out that his was one of the first countries to ratify the 2015 Paris Agreement. While traveling abroad last week, Trump was repeatedly pressed to stay in the deal by European leaders and Pope Francis. Withdrawing would leave the United States as one of just three countries outside the agreement. The other two are Syria and Nicaragua. Russia joined the chorus speaking out for the climate accord. Speaking to reporters on Thursday before Trump's decision was announced, a spokesman for President Vladimir Putin said Russia "thinks highly" of the accords and sees no alternative to it. Spokesman Dmitry Peskov added that its implementation will not be as effective "without the key signatories." Scientists say Earth is likely to reach more dangerous levels of warming sooner if the U.S. retreats from its pledge because America contributes so much to rising temperatures. Calculations suggest withdrawal could release up to 3 billion additional tons of carbon dioxide a year -- enough to melt ice sheets faster, raise seas higher and trigger more extreme weather. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False
858	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-10-26	Ms. Lagarde said she had always admired Britain's "openness to other nationalities and cultures" and added it was "hard to believe attitudes had changed in such a short space of time."	As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of "carbon footprints" and preaching "renewable energy," they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world.	Most signatories, Solomon notes in an essay in last Friday's Financial Post, "are ignoring, if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments, undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios."	Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today, the study found, but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwide: "three times more deaths than from AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence."	This announcement drew fierce criticism from world leaders and activists, with former UN secretary general Ban Ki-moon accusing Trump of "standing on the wrong side of history."		IMF Chief: We Will Be 'Toasted, Roasted and Grilled' by Global Warming If we don't address the issues of climate change and inequality, Ms. Lagarde said Tuesday before a major economic conference in Riyadh, "we will be moving to a dark future." Speaking directly to the question of global warming, Lagarde said that "we will be toasted, roasted and grilled" if humanity fails to make "critical decisions" regarding carbon emissions. If the human race wants a future that "looks like utopia and not dystopia," it needs to address such concerns, Lagarde said, predicting that in 50 years' time, oil will be a secondary commodity since green energy will have moved into prominence. Speaking before a major petroleum-producing nation, Lagarde hastened to add that these necessary measures are "well understood" in Saudi Arabia. Ms. Lagarde is no stranger to exaggerated predictions, having proposed in 2016 that a Brexit victory would lead to 500,000 job losses, while suggesting that Brexit voters are narrow-minded and calling for a "united Europe." Ms. Lagarde said she had always admired Britain's "openness to other nationalities and cultures" and added it was "hard to believe attitudes had changed in such a short space of time." In June, President Donald Trump announced the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accord, arguing that it was a deeply flawed document that put American workers at an economic disadvantage. This announcement drew fierce criticism from world leaders and activists, with former UN secretary general Ban Ki-moon accusing Trump of "standing on the wrong side of history." Recent reports, however, suggest that Trump's move has drawn numerous countries in his wake, with a number of other nations quietly withdrawing from the Paris energy goals. According to Lawrence Solomon of Energy Probe, a Toronto-based environmental organization, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is one of the only signers of the Paris agreement who is actually abiding by the exacting demands of the accord. Most signatories, Solomon notes in an essay in last Friday's Financial Post, "are ignoring, if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments, undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios." Moreover, a devastating new study from the prestigious UK-based Lancet journal has revealed that pollution-related diseases—rather than "climate change"—were responsible for an estimated 9 million premature deaths in 2015, or some 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence combined. Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today, the study found, but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwide: "three times more deaths than from AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence." So while there has not yet been a single documented case of a person being killed by carbon dioxide related "global warming," real pollution of air, water and land is killing an average of 25,000 people every day across the globe. As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of "carbon footprints" and preaching "renewable energy," they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world. Whereas the Paris Climate Accord prates about greenhouse gas emissions, it never once mentions the word "pollution" in the entire 27-page document. Yet not only is pollution control not getting better, in many parts of the world, "pollution is getting worse," the Lancet study found.	False
524	usatoday	left_center_bias	2018-12-11	"It isn't just a coincidence that this is no longer the reality in our country."	While the broader debate centered on climate change and clean air rules, the waters rule was nearly as polarizing because its broad application could affect farming, construction and other activities near federally regulated waters.	The Obama administration "claimed it was in the interest of water quality but it was really about power, power in the hands of the federal government over landowners," Wheeler said.	The issue has often come down to the definition of "navigable waters" under the Clean Water Act.	The debate over the water rule was part of a larger political flashpoint over environmental issues during the 2016 presidential campaign as Trump tried to appeal to rural Americans exasperated by federal regulations and the loss of property rights.		Trump EPA takes aim at Obama-era clean water rules, prompting outcry from environmentalists WASHINGTON – The Trump administration is moving forward with a significant rollback of an Obama-era clean water regulation that has become a rallying cry for farmers and property-rights activists opposed to federal overreach. The new proposal, unveiled Tuesday morning by acting EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler and other administration officials, would ease Washington's oversight of small bodies of water, undoing a regulation President Donald Trump has called "a massive power grab." The new rule would replace an Obama administration regulation, known as the "Waters of the United States" rule that expanded federal protections to smaller rivers and streams. Environmental advocates warn the proposed rule could remove pollution and development protections from most U.S. waterways and pose far-reaching effects on the safety of the nation's tap water for more than 100 million Americans." ven a child understands that small streams flow into large streams and lakes – which provide drinking water for so many Americans," said Craig Cox, senior vice president for agriculture and natural resources for the Environmental Working Group. "By removing safeguards and allowing industry to dump pollutants into these water sources, Trump's EPA is ensuring more contamination challenges for utilities and dirtier water for their customers." But opponents of the Obama-era WOTUS rule say it unduly prevents property owners from being able to fully use their land because the rule's overly broad definition regulates ditches that temporarily flood as federally protected waterways." he old rule put Washington in control of ponds, puddles, and prairie potholes," said Wyoming GOP Sen. Tom Barrasso, who chairs the Environment and Public Works Committee. "The regulation was so confusing that property owners and businesses could not determine when permits were needed." The crux of the rollback is a change in how "navigable waterways" are defined under the Clean Water Act. The 2015 definition crafted under President Barack Obama would narrow considerably under Trump, a move that Wheeler told reporters would make it "clearer and easier to understand ... that will result in significant cost savings, protect the nation's navigable waterways, and reduce barriers to important economic and environmental projects." Wheeler cited the Missouri Farm Bureau, which launched a "Ditch the Rule" campaign opposing the 2015 proposal because it was concerned the Obama-era definition was so broad it could apply to almost every acre in the state. The Obama administration "claimed it was in the interest of water quality but it was really about power, power in the hands of the federal government over landowners," Wheeler said. It's also confusing because the rule is enforced in only 22 states, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. territories. Under Trump's proposed rule, federal protections would remain for major waterways, rivers, tributaries, wetlands adjacent to federally protected waterways, certain lakes and ponds, reservoirs, and ditches used for navigation or affected by the tide. States would oversee most ditches, terrain that fills with water during or in response to rainfall, certain wetlands that have been used to grow crops, stormwater control ponds, and water and wastewater treatment systems. Additionally, groundwater would not be federally protected, an exclusion Wheeler said that was never supposed to be included. Wheeler disputed claims by environmental groups that the rule would remove federal oversight from at least 60 percent of the nation's waterways. But EPA officials also could not say what percentage would lose those protections. Delaware Sen. Tom Carper, the top Democrat on the Environment and Public Works Committee, said the rollback would send the country back to a time when environmental protections were few and far between." Back then, the Cuyahoga River in Cleveland, Ohio, was so polluted that it actually caught on fire. Polluters were allowed to dump toxic waste into our waterways without consequence. Garbage littered our shores," Carper said. "It isn't just a coincidence that this is no longer the reality in our country." In one of his first acts as president, Trump signed an executive order in February 2017 to undo the clean water rule and instructed the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to come up with a new approach. In a Roosevelt Room ceremony with farmers and lawmakers at the time, Trump called the rule "one of the worst examples of federal regulation." The debate over the water rule was part of a larger political flashpoint over environmental issues during the 2016 presidential campaign as Trump tried to appeal to rural Americans exasperated by federal regulations and the loss of property rights. While the broader debate centered on climate change and clean air rules, the waters rule was nearly as polarizing because its broad application could affect farming, construction and other activities near federally regulated waters. The issue has often come down to the definition of "navigable waters" under the Clean Water Act. The Clean Water Act of 1972 makes it illegal to pollute "navigable" waters. Over the decades, disputes arose over the government's changing definition of "navigable" with opponents complaining the definition was too broad. Two Supreme Court decisions in 2001 and 2006 came down on the side of landowners, ruling that ponds at the bottom of a gravel pit and a marsh miles from any lake or river were not navigable and thus not subject to the act. Wheeler said he wants the rule to reflect the court rulings. More: President Trump on dire economic forecast of climate change report: 'I don't believe it'More: Once Democrats take charge of the House, addressing climate change will become top priority again	False
10	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-07-25	The Reuters/Ipsos poll was conducted online in English between June 11 and 14 and gathered responses from 3,281 people.	About half of Democrats, meanwhile, think droughts, hurricanes and tropical storms are more common in their region, versus less than a third of Republicans, according to the poll.	The divergence shows how years of political squabbling over global warming - including disputes over its existence - have grown deep roots, distorting the way Americans view the world around them.	For more conservative Americans, the link between weather and climate change is "not a typical conversation," Marlon said.	POLL: Dems, Republicans can't even agree on weather!		POLL: Dems, Republicans can't even agree on weather! NEW YORK (Reuters) - Only 200 miles separate Michael Tilden and Miranda Garcia in rain-soaked Iowa. But they are worlds apart when it comes to their opinion of the weather. Garcia, a 38-year-old former journalist and Democrat from Des Moines, thinks flooding has been getting worse in the state, which just came out of its wettest 12-months on record. Tilden, a 44-year-old math teacher and Republican from Sioux City, thinks otherwise: "I've noticed essentially the same weather pattern every single year," he said. Their different takes underscore a broader truth about the way Americans perceive extreme weather: Democrats are far more likely to believe droughts, floods, wildfires, hurricanes and tropical storms have become more frequent or intense where they live in the last decade, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll. The divergence shows how years of political squabbling over global warming - including disputes over its existence - have grown deep roots, distorting the way Americans view the world around them. The divide will play into the 2020 election as Democratic hopefuls seek to sell aggressive proposals to reduce or even end fossil fuel consumption by drawing links between climate change and recent floods, storms and wildfires. Nearly two-thirds of Democrats believe severe thunderstorms and floods have become more frequent, compared to 42% and 50% of Republicans, respectively, according to the poll. About half of Democrats, meanwhile, think droughts, hurricanes and tropical storms are more common in their region, versus less than a third of Republicans, according to the poll. Similarly, nearly seven in 10 Democrats said in the poll that severe weather events such as thunderstorms have become more intense, compared to 4 of 10 Republicans. And nearly half of Republicans said there has been no change in the intensity of severe weather over the past decade, versus a fifth of Democrats. The Reuters/Ipsos poll was conducted online in English between June 11 and 14 and gathered responses from 3,281 people. It has a credibility interval, a measure of precision, of 2 percentage points up or down.U.S. government researchers have concluded that tropical cyclone activity, rainfall, and the frequency of intense single-day storms have been on the rise, according to data compiled by the Environmental Protection Agency. For example, six of the 10 most active years for tropical cyclones in the Atlantic basin since 1950 have occurred since the mid-1990s, and nine of the top 10 years for extreme one-day precipitation events nationwide have occurred since 1990, according to the data." e do expect to see more intense storms," said David Easterling, a spokesman for the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration's National Centers for Environmental Information. An overwhelming majority of scientists believe human consumption of fossil fuels is driving sweeping changes in the global climate by ramping up the concentration of heat-trapping gases in the atmosphere. But it is impossible to draw a direct link between the changes in U.S. weather in the recent past to the larger trend of warming. President Donald Trump has cast doubt on the science of climate change, saying he believes that research into its severity, causes and effects is not yet settled. Two years ago he announced the United States would withdraw from a global pact to reduce carbon emissions, the Paris Climate Agreement, a deal Trump said could damage the U.S. economy. Still, a majority of Republicans believe the United States should take "aggressive action" to combat global warming, Reuters polling shows. Some Republican lawmakers have offered proposals for "market-based" approaches to fend off climate change, such as cap-and-trade systems that would force companies to cut carbon emissions or buy credits from those that do. Democrats are pushing more aggressive ideas. Nearly all of the party's presidential hopefuls, who seek to unseat Trump in next year's election, have put forward proposals to end U.S. fossil fuels consumption within a few decades to make the country carbon neutral. Trump has slammed the idea, saying it would "kill millions of jobs" and "crush the dreams of the poorest Americans." Jennifer Marlon, a research scientist at the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication, said the divergence in the way American perceive the weather is being driven by factors including the news they consume and their social circles. Liberals are more likely to expose themselves to news outlets and people who believe climate change is an urgent threat that affects current weather patterns. For more conservative Americans, the link between weather and climate change is "not a typical conversation," Marlon said. Last year, the Yale program - which carries out scientific research on public knowledge about climate change - set out to map the partisan divide on how people perceive the effects of global warming across the United States. It found that 22% of Republicans reported personally experiencing climate change, compared to 60% of Democrats. Scientists and researchers at the University of Michigan, the University of Exeter and others came to a similar conclusion in a 2018 study which found that political bias and partisan news reporting can affect whether people indicate experiencing certain extreme weather events.	False
668	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-04-17	Who Will Protect The Air We Breathe And Water We Drink?	Our hope rests not in convincing the willfully ignorant to change their ways, but in the coming together of broad-based people's movements prepared to act to take back the initiative, moving from resistance to power.	People across the country overwhelmingly support action on climate and investment in renewable energy sources, and believe immigrants make the United States a better place to live.	These are the inextricable demands of a resistance as powerful as it is diverse, and as strong as it is resilient.	We demand climate action that addresses historic injustices by pricing pollution and investing in solutions that improve economic and environmental conditions in front line communities.		Who Will Protect The Air We Breathe And Water We Drink? The Resistance More and more Americans are coming to the conclusion that climate change is no myth at a time when the Trump administration is intent on ignoring reality and appeasing corporate interests. Some environmental leaders are responding by formulating a lowest common denominator strategy on climate, like revenue neutral approaches, hoping to magically create a middle ground by bowing to the altar of limited government. Fortunately, an inclusive, inter-sectional and organic resistance is rising. This spring, throughout a week of powerful demonstrations from Earth Day to May Day, this resistance will blossom. OneAmerica is a multi-issue immigrant rights organization that calls Washington state – aka the Center of the Resistance – home. Our communities are as harmed in the short term by ICE raids and unconstitutional travel bans as they are in the long term by gutted environmental regulations. To fight these destructive and unpopular attacks, we need everyone, but more importantly, we need to follow the leadership of those most impacted by these regulatory rollbacks and programmatic cuts. People across the country overwhelmingly support action on climate and investment in renewable energy sources, and believe immigrants make the United States a better place to live. In partnership with our allies among labor, environmental, faith, and progressive business groups, OneAmerica has worked with other organizations led by people of color to build a statewide movement for action on climate change that puts our communities and other front line communities first. Our communities, to quote environmental justice advocate Majora Carter, are the canaries in the coal mine: We have already begun to experience climate disruption by virtue of where we live and work, and we have always been on the front lines of pollution. Farm worker communities in Eastern Washington have worked through several severely hot summers, under threat of wildfires and job loss due to drought. In the Puget Sound region, some of the zip codes with the lowest life expectancy and highest pollution burdens are home to large and growing Latino and Asian Pacific American communities. Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well-crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap, the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people. We demand climate action that addresses historic injustices by pricing pollution and investing in solutions that improve economic and environmental conditions in front line communities. Our policy, developed in partnership with mainstream environmental groups, labor unions, public health organizations and other stakeholders, represents some of the best of what a unified national resistance could create: Comprehensive, equitable action against the biggest existential threat of our generation: climate change. That's why on Saturday, April 22nd, we will support an inclusive March for Science that embraces research-based policies to address climate change. We will push our allies in the movement to use racial equity in their analyses by identifying disparate impacts of pollution and climate disruption and designing remedies that improve conditions for the most overburdened first. The People's Climate Movement takes to the streets on Saturday, April 29th, shedding light on the intertwined destinies of clean energy and employment in the United States and around the world. Finally, on May Day, OneAmerica will join partner organizations in championing immigrant and workers' rights in Seattle and Yakima, in solidarity with mobilizations across the country. We will march to demand inter-sectional immigrant rights: The right to freedom from hate crimes and harassment; the right to living wages and safe working conditions; the right to love whomever we choose; the right to keep families together; and the right to a clean and healthy environment. These are the inextricable demands of a resistance as powerful as it is diverse, and as strong as it is resilient. Our hope rests not in convincing the willfully ignorant to change their ways, but in the coming together of broad-based people's movements prepared to act to take back the initiative, moving from resistance to power.	True
0	redstate	right_bias	2019-12-02	They ask each of us to do what it takes to avoid collapsing or descending into chaos.	Both are states of events that you absolutely want to avoid.	However, there's nothing neutral about collapse or chaos.	Pre-Extinction: Powerful and suggests another mass extinction is imminent if we do not change our ways today.	That changed in the 1940s when the term "Big Bang" was coined, which was a simpler, more relatable concept for the masses.		Climate Alarmists Want to Rebrand "Climate Change" to Something More Panic Inducing First, it was "global warming" and/or "global cooling." Then when they figured out that they couldn't accurately predict which way it was going to go, they settled on "climate change." Apparently, that phrase just doesn't have the oomph it once did, and the church of climate change wants to rebrand their apocalypse to make people far more scared and subsequently, obedient. An article by Aaron Hall in AdAge asked the question of whether or not people will be more apt to fall in line with the climate alarmists if they take out the neutral-sounding "climate change" and replace it with something you might hear Chicken Little screaming:Scientific terms often fail to resonate in meaningful ways. In the early 1900s, for example, no one had heard of the "hypothesis of the primeval atom." That changed in the 1940s when the term "Big Bang" was coined, which was a simpler, more relatable concept for the masses. This complex scientific concept is extremely well-known today because a better, more tangible term was applied to it. Can we use lessons from the naming of the Big Bang to rebrand "climate change?"Interestingly, Hall notes that politicians liked "global warming" because it sounded dynamic and scary, but since it was "too easy to poke holes in" they decided to move on to climate change. People began joking about wanting global warming whenever it got too cold outside and the politicians, much like the devil himself, can't stand it when people laugh at them. Hall, being a "professional namer," wondered allowed about whether or not people would take the church of climate change more seriously if he renamed it to sound scarier. He said that the new name needs to appeal to people who are unscientific to help them understand the severity of the problem and "inspire them to make more eco-friendly life choices and pro-climate choices at the ballot box." In other words, it needs to scare people into voting Democrat. What did his team of global namers come up with? A bunch of names that sound like bad B-Movie titles. These options are subtle brand shifts from "global warming," yet they deliver a more negative image. The names signal that ice caps are melting, but also create a more visceral image in the mind — that real feeling of "melting" when it's too hot outside. A meltdown is a disastrous event that draws from the ultimate terror of a nuclear meltdown, an apt metaphor for global destruction. In naming, we call metaphorical names "suggestive names," and they are one of the most popular types of names. Good brand names instill a clear message or even a direct call to action. Perhaps that's why climate change isn't powerful enough: "Change" sounds so neutral. However, there's nothing neutral about collapse or chaos. Both are states of events that you absolutely want to avoid. They ask each of us to do what it takes to avoid collapsing or descending into chaos. They both also use alliteration — using the same letter or sound at the beginning of connected words — a naming trick proven to enhance memorability. Arresting brand names often capitalize on vivid visual associations. They refer to a tipping point that we're catapulting toward and must find a way to avert. Because a boiling point is the point at which liquid vaporizes, it brings forth imagery of rivers, lakes and oceans boiling and disappearing. "Melting Point" paints a clear picture of solid matter melting. As glaciers melt and disappear, so does our way of life. It's time to take the gloves off and stop pretending. Sometimes a brand name needs to be hyperbolic to truly capture hearts and minds. If we don't take massive action now, Earth will be uninhabitable — an irreversible barren wasteland. Plants and animals will die. Humans won't be able to survive extreme weather like floods, droughts and fires. If we don't change, we won't even be able to spend time outside. "Scorched Earth" paints the direst picture of what's to come and what we must avoid and is likely the edgiest brand name from our exploration. Those were just the winners. Hall gives an honorable mention to these as well:Emission Critical: Focuses on the action we need to take: reducing emissions. Pre-Extinction: Powerful and suggests another mass extinction is imminent if we do not change our ways today. The Great Collapse: The collapse of ecosystems, economies and our way of life. Earthshattering: Creatively arresting — the complete destruction of the Earth as we know it. What's the takeaway from all this?Not that climate change is going to end the world. It's not. No real scientific data points to that fact. The takeaway here is that there are actually people out there trying to worry you into obedience and support for a leftist agenda, and in order to do that they're willing to play with your brain by changing up the words they use. As you see above, Hall even admits that they're willing to get hyperbolic in order to make you scared.	True
557	dailymail	questionable_source	2018-02-11	The law and the Constitution are firmly on our side, and we think the judge will agree.	On Friday he heard two-and-a-half hours of arguments and said that he was leaning toward deciding he has jurisdiction in a lawsuit that alleges the Trump administration overreached in waiving laws that require environmental and other reviews.	Curiel came to national attention in 2016 when he was presiding over one of the cases against Trump University.	Trump said that he was biased because of his 'Mexican Heritage' and Trump's stance on the border.	The case was set to be heard on Friday in San Diego by US District Judge Gonzalo Curiel.		Lawsuit says Trump's wall threatens endangered species A tiny endangered butterfly could stop President Donald Trump from building his beloved border wall.A lawsuit has been filed by the Center for Biological Diversity, environmental groups and the State of California against the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. It outlines that the Quino checkerspot butterfly, Riverside fairy shrimp and the Pacific pocket mouse will be threatened if the border wall is built. The butterfly, which is native to southern California and Northern Mexico, is already on the endangered species list. The lawsuit contends that the Department of Homeland Security does not have the ability to waive environmental laws requiring review before building the wall. The suit seeks a ruling that a border wall with Mexico must go through normal environmental reviews, which could block construction or at least cause major delays. The challengers contend that authority to waive the environmental reviews falls under a 2005 law which has expired.'The Trump administration can't use an expired waiver to bypass crucial environmental protections to build these destructive projects,' Brian Segee, a senior attorney at CBD,told San Diego TV station KGTV.'It's time to stop Trump's hateful bombast and his executive overreach here in San Diego before it goes any further. The law and the Constitution are firmly on our side, and we think the judge will agree.'The DHS is arguing that it is within its right to issue the waivers, citing a 1996 immigration law. The case was set to be heard on Friday in San Diego by US District Judge Gonzalo Curiel. Curiel came to national attention in 2016 when he was presiding over one of the cases against Trump University. Trump said that he was biased because of his 'Mexican Heritage' and Trump's stance on the border. At the time, he told CNN: 'We are building a wall. He's a Mexican. We're building a wall between here and Mexico.'Now Curiel will be hearing a case about the wall. On Friday he heard two-and-a-half hours of arguments and said that he was leaning toward deciding he has jurisdiction in a lawsuit that alleges the Trump administration overreached in waiving laws that require environmental and other reviews. The administration argues he doesn't have jurisdiction. Curiel asked the administration and wall opponents to file additional briefings by the end of Tuesday.	False
652	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-04-23	But we're not being given the option of deciding how to do it ourselves.	"It is like 87 percent opposed."	There's an issue with that.	"People live here because they like rural living.	"Certainly.		Official Pledges 'No Quarter' In Fight Against Wind Turbines In New York An upstate New York local official has promised "no quarter" in his town's battle against a planned wind power farm that has Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo's support. Yates town councilman John Riggi opposes Apex Clean Energy's plan to build a 200-megawatt wind turbine project over the objections of local officials and a majority of voters. Riggi says he's not opposed to green energy, but doesn't want it nearby if his constituents don't support it. He wrote an editorial in a local paper this week pledging to accept "no quarter" in the fight against the Lighthouse Wind farm." he main concern is the desires of the constituency who are massively opposed to this project," Riggi told The Daily Caller New Foundation. "It is like 87 percent opposed." Cuomo plans to drastically increase New York's wind power capacity as part of his effort to phase out fossil fuels. Cuomo wants New York to get 50 percent of its electricity from green energy source by 2030. Cuomo did not return requests for comment to TheDCNF." ome of these turbines would be 750 feet high," Riggi said. "They want to put 70 of them in a 24 square mile area." It would completely change the community into something very different from how it feels," Riggi said. "People live here because they like rural living. They don't want their areas turned into industrialized zones." Lighthouse Wind could also run into opposition from environmentalists, who are increasingly turning against wind power at the local level. Environmentalists have become concerned with wind powers impact on birds and bats. Wind farms kill an estimated 573,000 birds and 888,000 bats a year, according to a 2013 peer-reviewed study published in Wildlife Society Bulletin. Wind farms are projected to kill 1.4 million birds annually by 2030." his area sits astride the preeminent bird and avian flyway on the North American continent," Riggi said. "We have birds coming in massive amounts. There's an issue with that. It's a danger to the birds and bats." Wind farms kill an estimated 573,000 birds each year, as well as 888,000 bats, according to a 2013 peer-reviewed study published in Wildlife Society Bulletin. Wind farms are projected to kill 1.4 million birds annually by 2030." pex Clean Energy also works to ensure that our projects are responsibly sited for wildlife by conducting in-depth environmental impact studies for every project," Cat Strumlauf, a spokesperson for Apex, told TheDCNF. "At every stage of development and operation, we coordinate with federal and state wildlife agencies to make sure that our projects are sited in areas where impacts to birds or bats are minimized and appropriately mitigated if necessary." The project could harm with the region's economy, potentially creating problems for a nearby U.S. Air Force base." e also have an Air Force base 30 miles from the proposed project site," Riggi said. "The base is concerned about the wind project because it would mess with the radar. We have an aerial refueling and drone mission there. It could impact how they're performing as well." The wind farm could make a nearby military base, which is a critical part of the local economy, much less useful. The base pump $200 million a year into the region and employs over 2,600 people." pex Clean Energy takes the safety and readiness of our military very seriously, and we work closely with the Department of Defense and its services to ensure our wind energy facilities do not adversely impact military missions," Strumlauf said. Riggi is also worried about the health concerns involving wind turbines. One of most common complaints about wind turbines by local residents is that they cause "flickering" when the sun is behind their blades. This is generally agreed to be incredibly annoying and there's evidence that it can cause headaches, sleep disorders, anxiety and depression symptoms in people who live nearby. Finally, Riggi is concerned Cuomo's green goals give local government's very little flexibility to determine how they go green." ne of the thing the governor is very clear on is that he wants all towns to become more green," Riggi told TheDCNF. "What I don't understand is with all of this going on why would the governor not allow the towns to choose how they'll support this initiative. There's no flexibility." New York state currently gets less than 5 percent of its electricity from wind and solar, according to the Energy Information Administration (EIA). That's a long way from Cuomo's 50 percent by 2030 target." o we want to reduce our carbon footprint?," Riggi said. "Certainly. But we're not being given the option of deciding how to do it ourselves. We're full in on renewable energy, but the town wants to have a choice. We want to be the ones to make the decisions on how we're going to contribute." Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	False
128	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-03-22	And in an interview with Fox Business after returning to Washington, D.C., Zinke said whether climate change is contributing to the infernos is "irrelevant to what's occurred."	It's the biggest threat of all.	When a reporter later pressed him outside the White House, Zinke said that "of course" climate change is a factor in the California fires ― a rather unconvincing acknowledgment, considering previous remarks and the number of times Zinke cast doubt on the all-but-irrefutable body of scientific research that shows human carbon emissions are driving global climate change.	It is also reminiscent of former Interior Department chief Ryan Zinke's response to wildfires in the western United States.	He emphasized the need for better forest management by pointing to the more than 120 million dead trees in California but failed to mention that the trees died because of a multi-year drought that scientists have concluded was made worse by anthropogenic climate change.		The Trump Team And The Problem That Shall Not Be Named "Most of the threats from climate change are 50 to 75 years out," Wheeler asserted, adding that the world should be "focused on the people who are dying today, the thousand children that die every day from lack of drinking water." Let's put aside the fact that climate change is not some distant challenge but one already wreaking havoc on communities around the globe — and that Wheeler has proposed gutting existing regulations that protect drinking water. It's absurd to act like planetary warming isn't a significant threat to the world's freshwater resources. It's the biggest threat of all. Climate change is a multiplier. Very few of the problems that we have right now related to water are going to be made better by climate change. That's not going to happen. There's no denying the magnitude of the water crisis in the U.S. and abroad. Droughts (which are made worse by climate change) lead to water shortages, while inland and coastal flooding can contaminate drinking water supplies. Under the current climate change scenario, nearly half the global population will be living in areas of high water stress by 2030, according to the United Nations, which warns that "water is the primary medium through which we will feel the effects of climate change." Last year's Fourth National Climate Assessment, the work of hundreds of scientists at more than a dozen federal agencies ― including the EPA ― documents significant changes in water quality and quantity across the country and warns that "water security in the United States is increasingly in jeopardy." The report details how rising temperatures and variable precipitation can have "cascading effects on water quality," increasing the risk of drought, pollutant runoff and harmful algal blooms." limate change is a multiplier," Caldas said. "Very few of the problems that we have right now related to water are going to be made better by climate change. That's not going to happen." It's unsurprising that Wheeler is calling for a massive mobilization to tackle water woes without acknowledging the climate change link, considering the administration's relentless push to boost domestic fossil fuel production. It is also reminiscent of former Interior Department chief Ryan Zinke's response to wildfires in the western United States. And in an interview with Fox Business after returning to Washington, D.C., Zinke said whether climate change is contributing to the infernos is "irrelevant to what's occurred." He emphasized the need for better forest management by pointing to the more than 120 million dead trees in California but failed to mention that the trees died because of a multi-year drought that scientists have concluded was made worse by anthropogenic climate change. When a reporter later pressed him outside the White House, Zinke said that "of course" climate change is a factor in the California fires ― a rather unconvincing acknowledgment, considering previous remarks and the number of times Zinke cast doubt on the all-but-irrefutable body of scientific research that shows human carbon emissions are driving global climate change. Early in his tenure, former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt prioritized fixing Superfund, the struggling and financially strapped program responsible for cleaning up the nation's most contaminated sites. The administration then turned around and proposed slashing funding for the program, from $1.09 billion to $762 million. Pruitt said that it wasn't a lack of money that was plaguing the program, but rather "poor leadership" and "poor focus" on the part of the Obama administration. Superfund's problems have almost everything to do with resources, which have all but dried up over the last two decades. Superfund experts have said the administration's approach highlights its lack of understanding about how the program functions. EPA maintains that Superfund is a "top priority" and that it "is making great strides in accelerating sites through remediation and back to productive use." Yet the $4.75 trillion 2020 budget blueprint the administration released this month once again calls for cutting Superfund dollars, this time by 10 percent.	False
602	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-04-07	Soros is the director and founder of Open Society and has financed climate crusades in the past.	The paper disclosed the Wasserman's financial contributions to the investigation, but falsely suggested RFF had nothing to do with the investigations."	"Yet in public, it vociferously fought regulations and policies that would have limited fossil fuel emissions while publicly questioning the science behind climate change."	Several wealthy philanthropic groups such as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund (RBF), Rockefeller Family Fund (RFF), and the Open Society Foundations bankrolled large portions of the LA Times' report.	Some climate scientists believe the LA Times is taking a leap of faith.		Enviro-Funded Report Ties Exxon Crusade To Largest Oil Spill In History Global warming is partially responsible for a decades-old oil spill that happened after an Exxon Mobil tanker hit a barrier reef, according to a Los Angeles Times report funded in part by liberal billionaire George Soros. The LA Times published a wide-ranging piece Thursday suggesting climate change laid the groundwork for the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill, a disaster that eventually dumped more than 10 million gallons of crude off the coast of Alaska. Higher than normal water temperatures near Prince William Sound caused ice bergs to chip off the Columbia Glacier and force the ship into uncharted territory. Floating chunks of ice forced the tanker out of its primary shipping lane, the paper noted. It veered off and crashed into the Bligh Reef, causing Exxon more than $3.4 billion through 2008 in cleanup costs and court settlements. Columbia Journalism School's Energy and Environment Reporting Project, the group that conducted the paper's report, was also involved in an investigation last November targeting Exxon's climate change research. Thursday's report dovetails with the group's previous investigations showing the oil company hid knowledge about climate change from the public for years." or the two decades following the Exxon Valdez disaster, the company worked quietly to safeguard its operations and infrastructure against steadily rising sea levels and thawing permafrost," The LA Times wrote. "Yet in public, it vociferously fought regulations and policies that would have limited fossil fuel emissions while publicly questioning the science behind climate change." Some climate scientists believe the LA Times is taking a leap of faith. Roy Spencer, a climate scientist at the University of Alabama in Huntsville, for one, told The Daily Caller News Foundation that "ice always calves off glaciers, because snow falls on the mountains, and the ice flows downhill — no global warming needed." There is a perfectly reasonable explanation for why ice bergs were cleaving off glaciers at the time of the Valdez disaster, he said, and it doesn't really have anything to do with man-made global warming." f the Columbia Glacier was calving more in the 1980s, it's most likely because the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) flipped in the late 1970s, which caused it to suddenly warm in Alaska," Spencer added, referencing an El Nino-like weather pattern that commonly affects the area the oil spill. What happened to the Valdez is no different than what happened to the Titanic, he said, referring to the passenger ship that hit an iceberg in 1912, which killed thousands of people heading to New York from England. Several wealthy philanthropic groups such as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund (RBF), Rockefeller Family Fund (RFF), and the Open Society Foundations bankrolled large portions of the LA Times' report. Soros is the director and founder of Open Society and has financed climate crusades in the past. RFF has single-handedly financially propped up the anti-Exxon campaign. It also pressured various attorneys general into investigating Exxon, namely for the purposes of bringing the company up on racketeering charges. The only way to target Exxon for hiding climate change research was to request the New York AGs office to open an investigation into the company, David Kaiser and Lee Wasserman, directors of RFF, wrote in an editorial for New York Books. The LA Times, for its part, has failed in the past to disclose its ties with RFF. Wasserman wrote an op-ed in January for the California paper, fleshing out specifics about the probes into Exxon's climate research. The paper disclosed the Wasserman's financial contributions to the investigation, but falsely suggested RFF had nothing to do with the investigations." he Fund has made grants to the Columbia Journalism School's Energy and Environment Reporting Project and InsideClimate News, but has no involvement in articles they produce," the paper's disclosure notes. The disclosure implies RFF did not actively participate in the investigations, which were first reported by environmental media group, InsideClimate News and the LA Times last November. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	False
424	cnn	left_bias	2018-11-26	In the December 2015 Quinnipiac poll , 83% of Democrats thought the US should be doing more, compared to 62% of independents and 26% of Republicans.	Eight-in-10 Democrats, 54% of independents, and 22% of Republicans thought in August that climate change has an impact the fires.	That's up from 2010, when Gallup first asked it and only a third of Americans thought global warming would impact them.	Over half (53%) of voters in the August Quinnipiac poll said climate change is a factor in making fires more extreme.	Fewer Republicans (one third) said more should be done about climate change, and another third of Republicans thought that the US is doing enough to address climate change.		Americans are worried about climate change (CNN) The new government report on climate change, which the Trump administration released quietly a day after Thanksgiving and two days after President Donald Trump tweeted skeptically about the existence of climate change, warns that the drastic human effects on the climate could cause thousands of Americans to die and cost the US economy hundreds of billions of dollars. But even before the report was made public, Americans were extremely worried about climate change. Almost two-thirds (64%) of voters said the US needs to be doing more to address climate change, according to a poll by Quinnipiac University in August, up from 57% who said the same in December 2015This opinion is divided by party lines: 91% of Democrats said more should be done, and 67% of independents agreed. Fewer Republicans (one third) said more should be done about climate change, and another third of Republicans thought that the US is doing enough to address climate change. In the December 2015 Quinnipiac poll , 83% of Democrats thought the US should be doing more, compared to 62% of independents and 26% of Republicans. The Trump administration chose to speed up release of the new report, which is required by law, putting it out on Black Friday instead of in December. It also came two days after Trump issued another tweet transmitting his skepticism of the existence of Climate change." Brutal and Extended Cold Blast could shatter ALL RECORDS - Whatever happened to Global Warming?" he said Wednesday on Twitter. An earlier portion of the climate change report was released in November 2017 and found "no convincing alternative explanation" for the changing climate other than "human activities, especially emissions of greenhouse gases." Trump has stood by his years-old claim that climate change is a hoax and emphasized that belief with his statements about the California wildfires , which he said were a result of poor forest management, drawing criticism from firefighters, climate scientists and many others. The government report, which is called the National Climate Assessment , addressed wildfires, reporting that one impact of climate change will be longer and more destructive wildfires, that could burn up to six times more forest annually by 2050 in parts of the US. California's wildfires are the worst in the state's history. Over half (53%) of voters in the August Quinnipiac poll said climate change is a factor in making fires more extreme. At that point, the fires in California were only beginning, and some are still burning in November, so it's unclear whether that number has changed since August. Eight-in-10 Democrats, 54% of independents, and 22% of Republicans thought in August that climate change has an impact the fires. Another impact of climate change will be on the health of Americans, whether because of extreme heat and higher temperatures, diseases (like Zika) that come from mosquitoes and ticks, more food and waterborne diseases, or higher risk of asthma and allergies. Concern about climate change and global warming has gone up in the last few years -- from 33% who said they worry a great deal about it in March 2013 to 43% who say the same now, according to GallupAround the same number (45%) said they think global warming will pose a serious threat to them or their way of life in their lifetimes in the March poll. That's up from 2010, when Gallup first asked it and only a third of Americans thought global warming would impact them. Democrats are much more likely to think they'll be impacted (67%) than independents (45%) or Republicans (18%), but whether that's because more Democrats live in coastal regions or due to just plain partisanship, it's hard to tell. In a statement by White House deputy press secretary Lindsey Walters, the Trump administration downplayed the report, saying it "is largely based on the most extreme scenario, which contradicts long-established trends by assuming that despite strong economic growth that would increase greenhouse gas emissions, there would be limited technology and innovation, and a rapidly expanding population."	False
761	Yahoo News	left_center_bias	2017-07-17	"The abolition of slavery.	Women's suffrage and women's rights.	economy."	The civil rights movement and the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa."	he climate movement, not least in cities, is right now in the tradition of all the great moral causes that have improved the circumstances of humanity throughout our history," Gore said in the speech.	ox & Friends" criticized Gore for comparing the climate change fight to fights against moral issues such as slavery and apartheid in a July 13 speech at the Ecocity World summit in Australia." <sep> 	Gore: Trump 'tears down America's standing in the world' by leaving Paris climate accord Former Vice President Al Gore said Monday that the U.S. is "going through a challenging time" under the Trump administration, decrying President Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement." e've never had a president who's deliberately made decisions the effect of which is to tear down America's standing in the world, starting with his withdrawal from the Paris Agreement," Gore said Monday on NBC's "Today Show." "The climate crisis is by far the most serious challenge we face." Trump announced last month that the U.S. would withdraw from the Paris Agreement, an international pact signed by more than 190 countries to commit to fighting climate change by reducing carbon dioxide emissions. Gore, who has spent much of his time after his 2000 presidential run crusading to fight climate change, met with Trump last year at Trump Tower to discuss climate change. The meetings had given Gore hope that the president would "come to his senses" about the Paris Agreement." ut I was wrong," Gore said. He declined to elaborate on what was discussed in the meeting. Trump, who has called climate change a hoax, argued in June that withdrawing from the Paris Agreement would benefit the U.S. economy." ell, the business community does not believe that at all," Gore said on CBS' "Sunday Morning." "There are now twice as many jobs in the solar industry as in the coal industry." In the U.S., the number of solar jobs is growing 17 times faster than the number of jobs in other industries, Gore said, calling the solar industry "one of the brightest spots in our economic revival." But the former vice president, who won a Nobel Peace Prize for his climate change work, has faced pushback from some conservatives for his efforts." ox & Friends" criticized Gore for comparing the climate change fight to fights against moral issues such as slavery and apartheid in a July 13 speech at the Ecocity World summit in Australia." he climate movement, not least in cities, is right now in the tradition of all the great moral causes that have improved the circumstances of humanity throughout our history," Gore said in the speech. "The abolition of slavery. Women's suffrage and women's rights. The civil rights movement and the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa." Seriously?? Former VP Al Gore compares climate battle to fight against slavery and apartheid," Fox & Friends tweeted. The longtime climate change battle advocate has taken criticism of his work in stride." f everybody's just completely happy with what you're doing, you may not be working hard enough to bring about the kind of change that we need," Gore said on CBS. He added that he'll continue to fight climate change, adding, "I could not lay this [fight] down or put it aside even if I wanted to. I don't want to." On NBC, Gore was quick to say that Trump's decision to leave the Paris Agreement is just one of the ways in which the president has "hurt" America's  "standing in the world," citing damage to international alliances such as NATO." he months ahead will be a test for the American people," Gore said on NBC.	False
187	theguardian	left_center_bias	2019-03-20	Carbon dioxide is actually a benefit to the world, and sowere the Jews."	In July 2014, Professor Happer caused controversy during ) in the United States when he claimed that"the demonisation of carbon dioxide is just like the demonisation of the poorJews under Hitler.	The creation of the new panel of climate change deniers, and the recruitmentof supporters to provide it with a veneer of legitimacy, echoes )to discredit the work of geneticists who disagreed with the) pseudo-scientific theories of TrofimLysenko.	Stalin embraced lysenkoism as the basis for Sovietagricultural policy, while also denouncing and persecuting Lysenko'sscientific critics.	makes many inaccurate and misleadingassertions, such as: "Readily available data from both governmental and non-governmental sources confirms that extreme weather events in recent years havenot happened more often or with greater intensity."		Donald Trump is using Stalinist techniques against climate science | Michael Mann and Bob Ward Americans should not be fooled by the Stalinist tactics being used by theWhite House to try to discredit the findings of mainstream climate science. The Trump administration has already ) about climate change from governmentwebsites, )and attempted to ). Now a group of hardcore climate change deniers and contrarians linked to theadministration is ) in support of ) being set up by the NationalSecurity Council to promote an alternative official explanation for climatechange. The panel will consist of scientists who do not accept the overwhelmingscientific evidence that rising levels of carbon dioxide and other greenhousegases in the atmosphere are behind climate change and its impacts. The petition is being circulated for signature by ) of the CompetitiveEnterprise Institute, a lobby group for "free market" fanatics which hasbecome infamous for ). It does not disclose its sources of funding, but is known to have receivedmoney ) such as the Koch brothers. Mr Ebell, who has no expertise whatsoever in climate science – or any kind ofscience for that matter – was ) and diverted the focus of theEnvironmental Protection Agency towards weakening and removing policies thatlimit pollution by companies, including President Obama's Clean Power Plan. The creation of the new panel of climate change deniers, and the recruitmentof supporters to provide it with a veneer of legitimacy, echoes )to discredit the work of geneticists who disagreed with the) pseudo-scientific theories of TrofimLysenko. Lysenko wrongly believed that acquired traits could be passed on by parents totheir offspring. Stalin embraced lysenkoism as the basis for Sovietagricultural policy, while also denouncing and persecuting Lysenko'sscientific critics. The Trump administration's "climate lysenkoism" is being led by WilliamHapper, a retired professor from Princeton University ) inSeptember 2018 as deputy assistant to the president and senior director foremerging technologies. Media reports suggest that Professor Happer and his fellow propagandists willtarget the ),which was prepared by leading researchers in the United States, and concludedlast November: "The impacts of climate change are already being felt incommunities across the country." Although the report was subjected to )at the National Academy of Sciences, it was rejected by President Trump, )Professor Happer, who has not published any research on climate change in areputable science journal, has been celebrated for many years by climatechange contrarians and deniers around the world. He was formerly a trustee of the George C Marshall Institute, which receivedfunding from ExxonMobil and other companies to spread doubt inside and)about the role of fossil fuels in climate change. It disappeared in 2015 andwas replaced by the CO2 Coalition, which was co-founded by Professor Happer.) makes many inaccurate and misleadingassertions, such as: "Readily available data from both governmental and non-governmental sources confirms that extreme weather events in recent years havenot happened more often or with greater intensity." In fact, the Fifth Assessment Report by the Intergovernmental Panel on ClimateChange, published in 2013,):"Changes in many extreme weather and climate events have been observed sinceabout 1950."A recent leak of ) showedthat its largest donors are conservative groups, such as the Mercer FamilyFoundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation, which have a long track record offunding climate change denial. Professor Happer has also collaborated with climate change deniers in othercountries, such as the United Kingdom. In 2010, he joined the "AcademicAdvisory Committee" of the Global Warming Policy Foundation, which was set upby Lord Lawson to campaign against polices to reduce greenhouse gas emissionsfrom the consumption of fossil fuels. He stepped down from the committee whenhe was hired by the White House. The foundation published ) in August 2011 which disputed thescientific evidence that greenhouse gases are causing climate change. In July 2014, Professor Happer caused controversy during ) in the United States when he claimed that"the demonisation of carbon dioxide is just like the demonisation of the poorJews under Hitler. Carbon dioxide is actually a benefit to the world, and sowere the Jews." He was also forced to defend himself after Greenpeace revealed ) during which Professor Happer discussedwriting reports to promote climate change denial in exchange for a secret feepaid to the CO2 Coalition. Americans should not be conned by the Trump administration's climatelysenkoism and should instead place their trust in the ) who place the public interest ahead of political ideology.	True
825	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-08-18	But Lovelock has since renounced this view.	he fact that this stuff is there, measured in picograms or fractions of a picogram, is of no consequence to people," he says.	I'm sure there's giant corruption going on."	He feels the same way about the scare about pesticides, which greens have been heavily promoting ever since Rachel Carson's eco-doom bestseller Silent Spring, published in 1962.	Says Green Guru James Lovelock So says James Lovelock, 98, one of the world's pre-eminent environmentalists in a wide-ranging interview on today's Delingpole podcast for Breitbart.		Delingpole: 'Renewable Energy Is a Corrupt Scam, Go Nuclear!' Says Green Guru James Lovelock So says James Lovelock, 98, one of the world's pre-eminent environmentalists in a wide-ranging interview on today's Delingpole podcast for Breitbart. Lovelock is probably best known in environmental circles as the progenitor of Gaia theory – the idea that the planet is a self-regulating, living organism. In 2006, he boosted his green credibility even further with his bestselling book The Revenge of Gaia, whose doomsday narrative predicted that by 2100 climate change would have wiped out 80 percent of the world's population. But Lovelock has since renounced this view. Though he still thinks carbon dioxide is a problem because of its warming effects on the climate, he now believes the threat is not immediate. His change of heart was brought about partly by being in Oslo when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. He was not impressed by the calibre of the scientists attached to the IPCC – least of all its then-head Rajendra Pachauri "who turned out to be somewhat corrupt." There is global warming. But the stupid bloody academics screwed it up," he says now – meaning that they got their sums wrong and exaggerated the speed with which the planet is warming.A bigger worry, he says, are the wrong-headed policies being introduced supposedly to combat "climate change." He particularly loathes wind turbines because they are expensive, inefficient and environmentally damaging. The only reason they are being built, he says, is because "there is so much money in renewable energy. I'm sure there's giant corruption going on." The solution, he argues, is nuclear power which has had a terrible press because of green propaganda most likely funded by fossil fuel industries. Nuclear's health risks have been exaggerated by credulous greens who say "there's no amount of radiation that can't give you cancer." But this is nonsense, says Lovelock." t's as stupid as saying you should never go out of your home because if you do there's a chance you'll be killed by something or other." He feels the same way about the scare about pesticides, which greens have been heavily promoting ever since Rachel Carson's eco-doom bestseller Silent Spring, published in 1962. It was Lovelock who invented the device – an Electron Capture Detector – used to measure the tiniest quantities of substances be they pesticides or CFCs. What this device showed is that, yes, pesticides have indeed become so embedded in the food chain that they are detectable in every living thing." his has made the Greens very happy" he says, because it seems to confirm all their worst suspicions about pollutants, chemicals and health hazards. But it shouldn't, he adds, because – with certain exceptions – they are not a problem." he fact that this stuff is there, measured in picograms or fractions of a picogram, is of no consequence to people," he says. Lovelock's remarks are unlikely to endear him to the green movement. His Gaia hypothesis, first formulated in the 1960s while he was working with NASA trying to establish how to detect life on Mars, has inspired many people to join the green religion. And even – like actress Emma Thompson – to name their daughter after it. But far, far worse in many environmentalists' eyes will be the unlikely revelation he confided to me over lunch: he's a great admirer of Donald Trump, whom he recognises as a fellow maverick.	False
848	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-10-22	This quiet revolution may simply be a welcome return to common sense and realism.	The current state of affairs has not only undermined Germany's climate policy, but also jeopardizes "Germany's international reputation as a climate leader," Solomon asserts.	Earlier this month, the prominent Australian economist Judith Sloan wrote a scathing essay decrying renewable energy as the greatest "scam" being perpetrated against taxpayers and consumers, greater even than Ponzi, Madoff or Enron.	Meanwhile, Solomon notes in an essay in Friday's Financial Post, "most signatories are ignoring, if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments, undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios."	Apparently, Sloan's arguments and those of like-minded analysts prevailed on policy makers, and the country rejected the CET with its taxpayer funded subsidizing of renewables.A second blow to disciples of the Paris Climate Accord was last week's Austrian election, Solomon argues, "which saw two conservative parties with no interest in climate change — it wasn't even an election issue — come in first and second, making them likely to form a pro-carbon coalition government."		Report: Most Signatories Are 'Ignoring' or 'Abandoning' Paris Climate Commitments According to Lawrence Solomon of Energy Probe, a Toronto-based environmental organization, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is one of the only signers of the Paris agreement who is actually abiding by the exacting demands of the accord. Meanwhile, Solomon notes in an essay in Friday's Financial Post, "most signatories are ignoring, if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments, undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios." Trudeau now stands almost alone in sincere support of Paris," Solomon writes. "The populist backlash — a revulsion at top-down governments laden with jet-setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses — has swept America with Trump's election, Great Britain with Brexit, much of Europe, and Australia." In the process, global warming enthusiasts are being swept out," he writes. Last week, Australia rejected its Clean Energy Target (CET), a lengthy proposal that would have forced electricity utilities to rely on renewables and other low-emission sources for a substantial percentage of their production. The measure had been put forward as a way of complying with requirements of the non-binding Paris agreement. Earlier this month, the prominent Australian economist Judith Sloan wrote a scathing essay decrying renewable energy as the greatest "scam" being perpetrated against taxpayers and consumers, greater even than Ponzi, Madoff or Enron. While sinking enormous financial resources into propping up renewable energy prospectors, national governments are providing no perceptible benefits to their citizens, Sloan wrote." ith very few exceptions, governments all over the world have fallen into the trap of paying renewable energy scammers on the basis that it is necessary, at least politically, to be seen to be doing something about climate change," Sloan writes, before providing readers with an avalanche of economic data to back up her assertion. Apparently, Sloan's arguments and those of like-minded analysts prevailed on policy makers, and the country rejected the CET with its taxpayer funded subsidizing of renewables.A second blow to disciples of the Paris Climate Accord was last week's Austrian election, Solomon argues, "which saw two conservative parties with no interest in climate change — it wasn't even an election issue — come in first and second, making them likely to form a pro-carbon coalition government." Germany, too, which has been a staunch proponent of anti-climate change regulations, has fallen "hopelessly behind in meeting its carbon targets," according to a leak. The current state of affairs has not only undermined Germany's climate policy, but also jeopardizes "Germany's international reputation as a climate leader," Solomon asserts. According to the analyst, popular opinion against German Chancellor Angela Merkel's "Energiewende" (energy transition) policies, which had doubled electricity prices, played no small part in Merkel's terrible showing in last month's national elections. Costs of the ill-fated Energiewende now total some €650 billion, a bill that weighs heavily on the shoulders of German taxpayers. Late last year, to their national embarrassment, the Germans had to be bailed out of a small energy crisis by Poland when the wind failed to blow for several days and a thick fog surrounded many parts of Germany, driving the output from renewables to just 4 percent of total demand. It was coal-fueled Poland that had to rescue Germany from its self-induced energy crisis." erkel may now be unable to form a government without the support of the libertarian Free Democratic Party, which demands an end to renewables subsidies," Solomon notes. And so around the world—except in Trudeau's Canada—nations are once again turning back to inexpensive coal rather than pouring more money into costly "renewables," and coal plants are being built at five times the rate that old plants are being decommissioned. This quiet revolution may simply be a welcome return to common sense and realism. After all, once the photo ops are finished and the politically correct accords are duly signed amidst solemn brow furling, political leaders must get back to the business of meeting the real needs of their citizens—which all depend on the availability of affordable energy.	False
378	foxnews	right_bias	2018-11-25	e is a flawed character," Stephen Lacey, editor-in-chief of the magazine GreenTechMedia, said on his podcast "The Energy Gang" last year.	"The president may try to hide the truth, but his own scientists and experts have made it as stark and clear as possible."	"We're in an era of backlash against elites, so Gore, a guy who bought a 6,500-square-foot seafront home in California for $8.8 million, and who hangs around with other celebrities who talk big on climate but who live lavish lifestyles, is the perfect target at this point in time."	Gore's lifestyle aside, his statement comes amid what appears to be a continuing denial from Trump and members of his administration about the dangers climate change poses to the environment and to the world's economy.	Report director David Reidmiller said questions about the timing were "relevant," but said what was in the report was more important.		Al Gore blasts Trump for 'burying' climate report by releasing it on Black Friday Former Vice President Al Gore accused the Trump administration of trying to "bury' a damning government report that linked global warming to the worsening of natural disasters by quietly releasing the study on the Friday after Thanksgiving. Gore, who since his time as vice president has become an outspoken advocate for the need to counteract the effects of global warming, said in a statement that the White House was trying to "bury this critical U.S. assessment of the climate crisis" by releasing it the day after Thanksgiving. The day, known as Black Friday, has become the traditional start of the holiday shopping season and one that most Americans have off from work." nbelievably deadly and tragic wildfires rage in the West, hurricanes batter our coasts — and the Trump administration chooses the Friday after Thanksgiving to try and bury this critical U.S. assessment of the climate crisis," Gore said in a statement that he posted on Twitter Friday. "The president may try to hide the truth, but his own scientists and experts have made it as stark and clear as possible." The National Climate Assessment, which is mandated by law every few years and is based on more than 1,000 previous research studies, details how global warming -- from the burning of coal, oil and gas -- is hurting each region of the United States and how it impacts different sectors of the economy, including energy and agriculture. It was written long before the deadly fires in California this month and before Hurricanes Florence and Michael raked the East Coast and Florida." Climate change is transforming where and how we live and presents growing challenges to human health and quality of life, the economy, and the natural systems that support us," the report says. This includes worsening air pollution causing heart and lung problems, more diseases from insects, the potential for a jump in deaths during heat waves, and nastier allergies, according to the report." nnual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century — more than the current gross domestic product (GDP) of many U.S. states," the report says. It'll be especially costly on the nation's coasts because of rising seas and severe storm surges, which will lower property values. And in some areas, such as parts of Alaska and Louisiana, coastal flooding will likely force people to relocate." While Gore has become one of the most prominent advocates for reducing carbon emissions and fighting to reduce the effect of climate change, the former vice president has not been immune from claims that his work is not as altruistic as it appears. Gore left the vice president's residence with a relatively modest net worth of $1.7 million -- mostly from family farm assets -- but since the release of his 2006 documentary "An Inconvenient Truth" and his continuing global tour to preach his message, he has amassed a fortune valued at upward of $200 million. From the fossil fuels he burns jetting around the globe, to his socializing with Hollywood heavy hitters, to his 6,500-square-foot seafront home in California that cost $8.8 million, some climate activists have questioned whether Gore is helping or hurting the climate fight." e is a flawed character," Stephen Lacey, editor-in-chief of the magazine GreenTechMedia, said on his podcast "The Energy Gang" last year. "We're in an era of backlash against elites, so Gore, a guy who bought a 6,500-square-foot seafront home in California for $8.8 million, and who hangs around with other celebrities who talk big on climate but who live lavish lifestyles, is the perfect target at this point in time." Gore's lifestyle aside, his statement comes amid what appears to be a continuing denial from Trump and members of his administration about the dangers climate change poses to the environment and to the world's economy. Earlier in the week, Trump tweeted about the brutal cold spell that hit the East Coast over the Thanksgiving holiday and questioned "Whatever happened to Global Warming?"Friday's report seemed to anticipate such comments, saying: "Over shorter timescales and smaller geographic regions, the influence of natural variability can be larger than the influence of human activity ... Over climate timescales of multiple decades, however, global temperature continues to steadily increase." The Lower 48 states have warmed 1.8 degrees (1 degree Celsius) since 1900 with 1.2 degrees in the last few decades, according to the report. By the end of the century, the U.S. will be 3 to 12 degrees (1.6 to 6.6 degrees Celsius) hotter depending on how much greenhouse gases are released into the atmosphere, the report warns. Releasing the report on Black Friday "is a transparent attempt by the Trump administration to bury this report and continue the campaign of not only denying, but suppressing the best of climate science," said study co-author Andrew Light, an international policy expert at the World Resources Institute. During a press conference Friday, officials behind the report repeatedly declined to answer questions about the timing of its release and why it contradicts public statements from Trump. Report director David Reidmiller said questions about the timing were "relevant," but said what was in the report was more important. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False
330	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-10-08	California and many European countries have policies to price carbon dioxide emissions and mandate green energy, including cap-and-trade systems and carbon taxes.	That's less onerous than limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius, but still no walk in the park.	The report calls for societal changes that are "unprecedented in terms of scale" in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius, the stretch goal of the Paris accord.	In the U.S., Republican lawmakers overwhelmingly passed a resolution opposed to carbon taxes in July.	However, the group's report tacitly acknowledges the unlikelihood that governments will enact astronomical taxes on energy."		A $240 Per Gallon Gas Tax To Fight Global Warming? New UN Report Suggests Carbon Pricing A United Nations special climate report suggests a tax on carbon dioxide emissions would need to be as high as $27,000 per ton at the end of the century to effectively limit global warming. For Americans, that's the same as a $240 per gallon tax on gasoline in the year 2100, should such a recommendation be adopted. In 2030, the report says a carbon tax would need to be as high as $5,500 — that's equivalent to a $49 per gallon gas tax. If you think that's an unlikely scenario, you're probably not wrong. However, it's what the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's report, released Sunday night, sees as a policy option for reducing emissions enough to keep projected warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. The IPCC's report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December. The report calls for societal changes that are "unprecedented in terms of scale" in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius, the stretch goal of the Paris accord. However, the costs of meeting that goal are high based on the IPCC's own figures. (RELATED: Here's What The Media Won't Tell You About The U.N.'s New Climate Report)In order to effectively keep future warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius, the IPCC says carbon taxes would need to range from $135 to $5,500 per ton in 2030, $245 to $13,000 per ton in 2050, $420 to $17,000 per ton in 2070 and $690 to $27,000 per ton in 2100. To meet the goals of the Paris accord, which seeks to limit future warming to below 2 degrees Celsius, the IPCC says carbon taxes would have range between $10 and $200 in 2030 and $160 and $2,125 in 2100. That's equivalent to a gas tax as high as $1.70 per gallon in 2030 to nearly $19 per gallon at the end of the century. That's less onerous than limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius, but still no walk in the park. California and many European countries have policies to price carbon dioxide emissions and mandate green energy, including cap-and-trade systems and carbon taxes. But carbon prices under those systems are nowhere near where the IPCC says they need to be. The IPCC said the "price of carbon would need to increase significantly when a higher level of stringency is pursued." However, the group's report tacitly acknowledges the unlikelihood that governments will enact astronomical taxes on energy." hile the price of carbon is central to prompt mitigation pathways compatible with 1.5 [degree Celsius]-consistent pathways, a complementary mix of stringent policies is required," reads the IPCC's report. In the U.S., Republican lawmakers overwhelmingly passed a resolution opposed to carbon taxes in July. Democrats called for a price on carbon dioxide in their 2016 party platform, but they haven't made much effort on that front since the failure of cap-and-trade legislation in 2010. Republican Rep. Carlos Curbelo of Florida introduced carbon tax legislation shortly after all but five of his GOP colleagues in the House voted to oppose such a bill. Curbelo's bill would tax carbon dioxide at $23 a ton — nowhere near what the IPCC calls for. However, the IPCC suggested a lower carbon tax could be used in conjunction with command and control policies, like regulations and bans on coal plants, could achieve "generate a 1.5˚C pathway for the U.S. electric sector." But that point only serves to undermine Curbelo's bill, which would put a moratorium on some environmental regulations and possibly eliminate some if emissions goals are reached. The IPCC noted the "literature indicates that the pricing of emissions is relevant but needs to be complemented with other policies to drive the required changes in line with 1.5°C-consistent cost-effective pathways."	False
767	CNBC	left_center_bias	2017-09-01	The goal of a carbon tax is to reduce the use of goods and services that produce greenhouse gas emissions, and to convince companies to reduce their emissions.	The goal of a carbon tax is to reduce the use of goods and services that produce greenhouse gas emissions, and to convince companies to reduce their emissions.	Dems and conservatives alike want to help Trump cut taxes — by charging carbon polluters Democrats and conservatives alike say they can help President Donald Trump cut corporate taxes and put money in the pockets of American taxpayers, but it will come at a price: penalizing coal miners and fossil fuel interests for contributing to global warming.A pair of Democratic senators and the bipartisan Climate Leadership Council aim to make a fee on carbon emissions part of tax reform.	That would be a hard pill for Trump to swallow, given his pledge to revive the coal industry and put miners back to work.	Their plans would essentially transfer money from greenhouse gas polluters to individual and corporate taxpayers.		Dems and conservatives alike want to help Trump cut taxes — by charging carbon polluters Democrats and conservatives alike say they can help President Donald Trump cut corporate taxes and put money in the pockets of American taxpayers, but it will come at a price: penalizing coal miners and fossil fuel interests for contributing to global warming.A pair of Democratic senators and the bipartisan Climate Leadership Council aim to make a fee on carbon emissions part of tax reform. Their plans would essentially transfer money from greenhouse gas polluters to individual and corporate taxpayers. The goal of a carbon tax is to reduce the use of goods and services that produce greenhouse gas emissions, and to convince companies to reduce their emissions. That would be a hard pill for Trump to swallow, given his pledge to revive the coal industry and put miners back to work.	False
386	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-12-18	org.	Many experts who have seriously examined claims linking climate to violent conflict and mass migrations have found little evidence to support such claims, but the media still applied the narrative by linking global warming to Central American migrations."	Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on "climate change and the migrant caravan," claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence, "climate change is also playing a part" based on an interview with a farmer-turned-migrant who's crop failed.	The migrant caravan from Central America is a recent, startling example," Gore tweeted Monday.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.		Al Gore: Migrant Caravan Is A 'Startling Example' Of Global Warming Former Vice President Al Gore said the Central American migrant caravan seeking asylum in the U.S. is a "recent, startling example" of global warming forcing people from their homes." eople from all over the world are being forced to migrate because the climate crisis is affecting their livelihood. The migrant caravan from Central America is a recent, startling example," Gore tweeted Monday. The migrant caravan, made up of thousands of mostly young males from Honduras and other Central American countries, arrived at the U.S.-Mexico border in November seeking asylum. Migrants are fleeing violent, corrupt countries with poor economies, but some environmentalists and journalists claim global warming is also to blame. Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on "climate change and the migrant caravan," claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence, "climate change is also playing a part" based on an interview with a farmer-turned-migrant who's crop failed. The video, published on Dec. 13, largely reflects arguments made by some media outlets in the past few months that migrant caravans to the U.S. are a "preview of climate migrations" — meaning people driven from their homes due to global warming. Many experts who have seriously examined claims linking climate to violent conflict and mass migrations have found little evidence to support such claims, but the media still applied the narrative by linking global warming to Central American migrations." xperts say that … climate change in the region is exacerbating – and sometimes causing – a miasma of other problems including crop failures and poverty," The Guardian reported in October." nd they warn that in the coming decades, it is likely to push millions more people north towards the US," the paper reported. Central American officials also claim global warming is part of the reason why their citizens are fleeing en mass. Governments say droughts have been made more frequent and intense by global warming. However, the latest United Nations climate report in 2014 found "low confidence in a global-scale observed trend in drought or dryness (lack of rainfall) since the middle of the 20th century." The Guardian also noted that federal data showed "a surge in outward migration from western Honduras, a prime coffee-producing area." The collapse in coffee bean prices has made growing it less profitable, forcing migrants to hit the road. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
300	rt	questionable_source	2019-09-23	While Thunberg was giving a fiery speech at the UNGA Climate Action Summit, Trump was speaking at an event about religious freedom.	We are in the beginning of a mass extinction, and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	"People are suffering.	"Thunberg's fiery speech was likewise met with praise or disdain, depending on where one stood in regard to the narrative of manmade climate change.	People are dying.		Thunberg vs Trump: Showdown at UNGA sparks memes & snark Arriving at the UN General Assembly, US President Donald Trump paid no attention to Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg. Caught on camera, her stare sparked a thousand tweets and divided the public. While Thunberg was giving a fiery speech at the UNGA Climate Action Summit, Trump was speaking at an event about religious freedom. Video from the UN headquarters on East River shows Thunberg scowling as Trump enters the building to speak to reporters, not even registering her presence. Trump's critics were quick to make Thunberg their "shero,"describing her stare their new "life goals" and declaring that the 16-year-old climate activist "became president today." We are all Greta," another resistance activist proclaimed, sharing a photo of Thunberg scowling at Trump next to a photo of her meeting his predecessor, Barack Obama. Conservatives who saw the images reacted differently, praising Trump for ignoring Thunberg – as if he did it on purpose – and even meme-ing her scowl to music and song lyrics. Trump has nixed dozens of Obama administration environmental regulations, calling them deadly to the economy, much to the outrage of climate activists. A faction among the Democrats has since proposed a "Green New Deal" that would eliminate carbon emissions altogether and reorder the US economy entirely, warning that otherwise the world would end in 12 years. Thunberg is even more pessimistic. At the current rate, the world will go over the carbon emissions cap in eight and a half years, she warned in her speech on Monday." You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words," she thundered at the world leaders on Monday. "People are suffering. People are dying. Entire ecosystems are collapsing. We are in the beginning of a mass extinction, and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth. How dare you!"Thunberg's fiery speech was likewise met with praise or disdain, depending on where one stood in regard to the narrative of manmade climate change. The environmentalist movement is increasingly convinced that humanity is destroying the planet, and has already called for banning the production and consumption of meat, outlawing fossil fuels, and shuttering down nuclear power plants, despite the cost and burden on people that may produce. Later on Monday, the president did finally notice the young activist. In an apparent jab at Thunberg, he tweeted she looked like a "very happy girl," alongside a clip of her 'angry' address before the UN. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False
282	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-11-18	Pew found that 68 percent of U.S. adults who attend religious services at least a few times a year say they have "a lot" of confidence in the advice of their clergy on growing closer to God, yet just a small fraction of this number (13 percent) say they have this confidence when the topic is "climate change."	"It is a sin against future generations and is manifested in acts and habits of pollution and destruction of the harmony of the environment, in transgressions against the principles of interdependence and in the breaking of networks of solidarity between creatures."	n many concrete questions," he wrote, "the Church has no reason to offer a definitive opinion; she knows that honest debate must be encouraged among experts, while respecting divergent views."	Above and beyond its sinfulness, failure to care for the environment is an injustice and a crime, Francis suggested and should be legally enforced.	Pope Francis Wants to Add 'Ecological Sin' to Catechism ROME — Pope Francis told a group of lawyers that he could like to introduce the category of "ecological sin" into official Catholic teaching."	Pope Francis has thrown his moral weight behind the battle against anthropogenic climate change, but has also acknowledged that the Church has no authority on scientific questions. <sep> The pontiff said that such actions are "usually" caused by corporations, and "an elementary sense of justice would require" that they be punished for them. <sep> An ecological sin is "an action or omission against God, against one's neighbour, the community and the environment," Francis said, quoting the Fathers of the recently concluded Pan-Amazon Regional Synod. <sep> e must introduce – we are thinking about it – in the Catechism of the Catholic Church the sin against ecology, the ecological sin against the common home, because it is a duty," the pope said Friday in addressing participants in an international conference on penal law. <sep> The pope's words coincided with the release of a new survey by the Pew Research Center, which found that church-going Americans accept their clergy's on spiritual matters, but generally distrust their advice on issues such as climate change. <sep> Here I would state once more that the Church does not presume to settle scientific questions or to replace politics," Francis said. <sep> "But I am concerned to encourage an honest and open debate so that particular interests or ideologies will not prejudice the common good." <sep> Ecocide "is to be understood as the loss, damage or destruction of the ecosystems of a given territory, so that its utilization by inhabitants has been or can be seen as severely compromised," he said, adding that such a sin is "a fifth category of crimes against peace, which should be recognised as such by the international community." <sep> More specifically, Francis said, are all those actions that can be considered as "ecocide," for instance, "the massive contamination of air, land and water resources, the large-scale destruction of flora and fauna, and any action capable of producing an ecological disaster or destroying an ecosystem." <sep> In his 2015 encyclical letter on the environment, Francis urging nations and individuals to exercise more responsible stewardship of the created world, but insisted that he wanted to encourage debate rather than pronounce on environmental issues." <sep> 	Pope Francis Wants to Add 'Ecological Sin' to Catechism ROME — Pope Francis told a group of lawyers that he could like to introduce the category of "ecological sin" into official Catholic teaching." e must introduce – we are thinking about it – in the Catechism of the Catholic Church the sin against ecology, the ecological sin against the common home, because it is a duty," the pope said Friday in addressing participants in an international conference on penal law. More specifically, Francis said, are all those actions that can be considered as "ecocide," for instance, "the massive contamination of air, land and water resources, the large-scale destruction of flora and fauna, and any action capable of producing an ecological disaster or destroying an ecosystem." Ecocide "is to be understood as the loss, damage or destruction of the ecosystems of a given territory, so that its utilization by inhabitants has been or can be seen as severely compromised," he said, adding that such a sin is "a fifth category of crimes against peace, which should be recognised as such by the international community." The pontiff said that such actions are "usually" caused by corporations, and "an elementary sense of justice would require" that they be punished for them. An ecological sin is "an action or omission against God, against one's neighbour, the community and the environment," Francis said, quoting the Fathers of the recently concluded Pan-Amazon Regional Synod. "It is a sin against future generations and is manifested in acts and habits of pollution and destruction of the harmony of the environment, in transgressions against the principles of interdependence and in the breaking of networks of solidarity between creatures." Above and beyond its sinfulness, failure to care for the environment is an injustice and a crime, Francis suggested and should be legally enforced. "I would like to appeal to all the leaders and actors in this area to contribute their efforts to ensuring adequate legal protection for our common home," he said. The pope's words coincided with the release of a new survey by the Pew Research Center, which found that church-going Americans accept their clergy's on spiritual matters, but generally distrust their advice on issues such as climate change. Pew found that 68 percent of U.S. adults who attend religious services at least a few times a year say they have "a lot" of confidence in the advice of their clergy on growing closer to God, yet just a small fraction of this number (13 percent) say they have this confidence when the topic is "climate change." Pope Francis has thrown his moral weight behind the battle against anthropogenic climate change, but has also acknowledged that the Church has no authority on scientific questions. In his 2015 encyclical letter on the environment, Francis urging nations and individuals to exercise more responsible stewardship of the created world, but insisted that he wanted to encourage debate rather than pronounce on environmental issues." n many concrete questions," he wrote, "the Church has no reason to offer a definitive opinion; she knows that honest debate must be encouraged among experts, while respecting divergent views." Here I would state once more that the Church does not presume to settle scientific questions or to replace politics," Francis said. "But I am concerned to encourage an honest and open debate so that particular interests or ideologies will not prejudice the common good."	True
429	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-04-23	The support breaks down similarly across the state, with 73 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 61 percent of people 65 and older; 71 percent of urbanites and 60 percent of rural people; and 75 percent of black people and 64 percent of whites.	That support cuts across demographics, including 75 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 67 percent of people 65 years and older; 73 percent of urban dwellers and 67 percent of rural New Yorkers; and 74 percent of black people and 69 percent of whites.	Heather McGhee, president of the left-leaning think tank Demos, and the economist Robert Reich called it "the most progressive climate-equity policy we've seen."	"If we can get it onto his desk, he'll have no choice but to sign it."	here needs to be some adjustments made in the perception of how important this bill is to bring it into the executive chamber, ready for the governor's signature," Englebright said Friday.		Andrew Cuomo Faces A Big Test On Climate Change. He's Already Failed Twice. And on Monday, 19 buses carrying more than 1,500 activists from across the state converged on the state capital to protest Cuomo's failure to do more about climate change in his eight years in office, and make demands that looked identical to Nixon's platform. It was the largest environmental protest against Cuomo since anti-fracking activists staged demonstrations in 2014. To some, Cuomo's status as a climate pariah may be surprising. In 2014, he put a moratorium on hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, for natural gas in the state. In 2015, Al Gore joined the governor as he announced plans to cut the state's greenhouse gases emissions 40 percent by 2030. Last June, Cuomo loudly rejected President Donald Trump's move to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate accord, ramping up New York's pledge to produce half its electricity from renewables by 2030 and forging a new alliance with the governors of Washington and California to stick to the goals agreed to by former President Barack Obama. "Climate change is a reality, and not to address it is gross negligence by government," said Cuomo, according to a new page on the state website with the banner: "Environment Leadership." But Cuomo's policies still fail to meet even the baseline targets scientists say are needed to make a difference on global warming. His reduction targets focus exclusively on power plants, ignoring the majority of the state's emissions that come from buildings and vehicles. He has no plan to get the state to 100 percent renewable electricity, and has offered little to protect low-income communities and neighborhoods of color that suffer most from the impacts of climate change. The state's pension funds remain invested in fossil fuels, and polluters face no penalties in the form of fines on climate-linked damage or taxes on emissions. As Nixon gains in the polls and lands magazine covers, Cuomo is scrambling to act on long-neglected progressive demands. Three weeks ago, over coffee and cookies at a Manhattan steakhouse, the governor made a deal to disband the Independent Democratic Conference, known as the IDC. The group of eight breakaway Democrats in the state Senate caucused with Republicans, guaranteeing a conservative majority in the chamber ― now only one holdout, Brooklyn Democrat Simcha Felder, has left Republicans with a flimsy one-vote majority. Cuomo also signed an executive order last week restoring voting rights to felons on parole and voiced support for legalizing recreational marijuana, a policy Nixon made a platform issue in her campaign. On Friday, almost simultaneous to the release of Nixon's climate platform, Cuomo denied a water quality permit to a new natural gas pipeline environmentalists have protested for months, and announced a new energy efficiency initiative that would account for one-third of the emissions cuts required to meet his 2030 target. But Cuomo's next big test on climate change is one he has already failed twice. For the third time in as many years, the state assembly is slated to vote this week on the latest version of the New York State Climate and Community Protection Act, known as the CCPA. The bill is widely considered the most ambitious and egalitarian climate legislation introduced anywhere in the nation. Heather McGhee, president of the left-leaning think tank Demos, and the economist Robert Reich called it "the most progressive climate-equity policy we've seen." The legislation, first introduced in 2016, calls for 100 percent renewable energy statewide by 2050 and orders state agencies to draft plans to cut greenhouse gas emissions from power plants, buildings and vehicles. It requires 40 percent of state energy funding to go to the low-income neighborhoods and communities of color most vulnerable to sea level rise and extreme weather, and includes wage standards backed by labor unions for all state-funded green energy projects. If enacted, the bill's proponents say it would create more than 100,000 jobs. For Assemblyman Steve Englebright, the Long Island Democrat who first introduced the CCPA, the bill is 20 years overdue. The 71-year-old lawmaker from Setauket, a coastal hamlet on Long Island Sound, started warning about the threat of runaway global warming two decades ago. He has since sponsored several bills to support solar and wind production, at least three of which became laws. In 2016, he became chairman of the Assembly Committee on Environmental Conservation and moved swiftly to draft and introduce the CCPA." here needs to be some adjustments made in the perception of how important this bill is to bring it into the executive chamber, ready for the governor's signature," Englebright said Friday. "If we can get it onto his desk, he'll have no choice but to sign it." New Yorkers overwhelmingly support environmental regulations even at an economic cost. Seventy-one percent of New Yorkers support expanding renewable energy generation even if it raises electricity prices, compared to 61 percent nationwide, according to Cooperative Congressional Election Study's 2016 survey results analyzed for HuffPost by Data for Progress, a left-leaning think tank. That support cuts across demographics, including 75 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 67 percent of people 65 years and older; 73 percent of urban dwellers and 67 percent of rural New Yorkers; and 74 percent of black people and 69 percent of whites. Sixty-seven percent of New Yorkers support strengthening enforcement of clean air and water regulations even if it costs U.S. jobs, compared to 58 percent nationwide. The support breaks down similarly across the state, with 73 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 61 percent of people 65 and older; 71 percent of urbanites and 60 percent of rural people; and 75 percent of black people and 64 percent of whites.	False
835	Daily Mail	questionable_source	2017-04-10	The Paris Agreement, endorsed by members of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), is a bedrock of international action against man-made global warming.	The Group of Seven, gathering the biggest western democracies, comprises Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States.	It also pledges to provide hundreds of billions of dollars in aid for poor countries badly exposed to drought, flood, rising seas and other climate impacts.	Under Obama, the United States, the second biggest carbon polluter, provided critical impetus for the Paris deal by concluding a precursor deal with China, the number one emitter.	Top officials from the Group of Seven industrial nations gathered in Rome, Italy today amid growing concerns over the US administration's moves to unravel policies aimed at stalling global warming.		G7 officials fail to agree statement on climate change G7 energy ministers have failed to agree a statement on climate change this afternoon because of 'US reservations', it has emerged. Top officials from the Group of Seven industrial nations gathered in Rome, Italy today amid growing concerns over the US administration's moves to unravel policies aimed at stalling global warming. Environmental activists fear US President Donald Trump is dismantling Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan, which aimed at reducing carbon pollution from power plants. Greenpeace was holding a sit-in outside Monday's meeting, calling on officials to maintain their commitments to reduce greenhouse gases under the 2015 Paris Agreement. However, the US 'reserved its position' on the text about commitments made by G7 countries under the Paris accord, said Carlo Calenda, the Italian minister for economic development, who chaired the meeting in Rome. The ministers' agenda had called for discussion of energy security, policies to move away from coal, natural gas routes and supply, sustainable development of electricity sources, alternative fuel scenarios and energy access and investments in Africa. Lacking unanimity, Italy, which currently presides the Group of Seven, decided against proposing the joint statement, Calenda said. The Paris Agreement, endorsed by members of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), is a bedrock of international action against man-made global warming. It vows to cap warming to 'well below' two degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) compared to late 19th-century levels - an effort that scientists say will require massive cuts in carbon emissions from coal and other fossil fuels. It also pledges to provide hundreds of billions of dollars in aid for poor countries badly exposed to drought, flood, rising seas and other climate impacts. In March, President Donald Trump signed an executive order rolling back some of the previous Democratic administration's policies on carbon emissions and climate change. Experts have said his plan, which eases emissions limits for coal-fired power plants and scraps more stringent vehicle pollution standards, almost guarantees that the US will fail to meet its commitments under the Paris Agreement. Trump has also said he does not intend to honour promises made by the administration of his predecessor, Barack Obama, to provide financial aid under the Paris accord. However, Trump's team is also deeply divided on whether to withdraw from the pact, according to US media reports. On March 30, the White House said a decision on whether to withdraw would be made ahead of the G7 summit in Italy in late May. Under Obama, the United States, the second biggest carbon polluter, provided critical impetus for the Paris deal by concluding a precursor deal with China, the number one emitter. The Group of Seven, gathering the biggest western democracies, comprises Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States.	False
814	Fusion	left_center_bias	2017-05-25	While that's not the most apparent result of the vote, it's one that should resonate with the Republicans who otherwise champion the military but bristle at environmental protections.	Extreme weather events, made worse by climate change, disrupt local communities and weaken the civic institutions that act as a bulwark against terrorists and extremism.	The better we protect our environment, the better we can protect people.	Fifty-one senators decided to put the best interests of taxpayers and the environment first, and narrowly saved a rule to limit methane emissions.	For anyone growing cynical watching beltway politics, Wednesday's victory on the methane rule was a rare and welcome reminder that common sense can still win out over the deep pockets of the oil and gas lobby.		Methane rule survival a win for national security, taxpayers and the environment flickr/ Tim EvansonGood news, these days, is hard to find. So when a vote to overturn a relatively obscure rule governing oil and gas drilling on public lands failed, green groups were understandably jubilant. Fifty-one senators decided to put the best interests of taxpayers and the environment first, and narrowly saved a rule to limit methane emissions. This means that instead of wasting hundreds of millions of dollars worth of natural gas (methane is its primary component), companies will capture and sell it. Because companies drilling on public land pay royalties on the oil and gas sold, this means the public will receive tens of millions of dollars in revenue from gas that's currently burned or left to leak out and pollute the atmosphere. This means more money in our coffers and less greenhouse gas in our atmosphere. But lost in the post-vote beltway analysis is the fact that this is also a big win for national security. While that's not the most apparent result of the vote, it's one that should resonate with the Republicans who otherwise champion the military but bristle at environmental protections. That's because the rule puts otherwise wasted methane to use, boosting our energy security and reducing our dependence on foreign sources of energy. Since natural gas is sold globally, and Russia is a major exporter, boosting US production like this rule does cuts into Russia's share of the market. The more we produce, the less our European allies have to rely on Russian gas for their power supply. By making our natural gas production more efficient, this rule also lessens our reliance on even less friendly fossil fuel exporters, including countries to which we all too often send American soldiers. By producing energy in the United States and limiting pollution, we're making the world safer. Natural gas is not exactly beloved by the environmental community, but it can take much of the credit for reducing the use of coal, which is much dirtier and more harmful. So while some may say that Obama's environmental rules constituted a 'War on Coal,' in reality it was the cheap and plentiful supply of natural gas that put coal out of business. Ultimately, we'll need to transition from natural gas to renewable and zero-carbon energies like solar, wind, and next generation nuclear power if we want to maintain low-cost energy and a safe and secure climate. Even with protections in place, gas remains a major source of greenhouse gas emissions, which cause plenty of problems. As a just-published report from the intelligence community details, climate change is a major military issue, acting as a "threat multiplier," which creates the conditions&#8211;drought and food scarcity for example&#8211;that breed instability and conflict. Extreme weather events, made worse by climate change, disrupt local communities and weaken the civic institutions that act as a bulwark against terrorists and extremism. The report also notes that the ecological damage done by climate change has human impacts. Communities that could once comfortably live off the land are forced out of the fields and forests and into urban areas where tensions run high and food supplies low. No one is saying that reducing methane leaks from gas drilling will prevent the next major conflict or humanitarian crisis. But with a problem as big as climate change, and as multifaceted as national security, every step is worthwhile. The better we protect our environment, the better we can protect people. Making sure companies capture and sell the gas drilled on public lands ensures that the American taxpayers get the biggest return possible for leasing that land. For anyone growing cynical watching beltway politics, Wednesday's victory on the methane rule was a rare and welcome reminder that common sense can still win out over the deep pockets of the oil and gas lobby. The vote was a win for taxpayers, a win for the environment, a win for national security, and a win for democracy.	True
431	shareblue	left_bias	2018-10-14	Published with permission of The American Independent.	No matter what, the answer is "most or all of it."	He also claimed that "many scientists" would "debate the percentage of what is attributable to man, versus normal fluctuations."	Human society is overwhelmingly responsible for our warming planet.	It's as simple as that.		Marco Rubio lies about climate science while Florida drowns After Florida was hit by the devastating Hurricane Michael this week, Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL) made it clear he would rather lie about climate change, which makes these storms worse, than commit to doing anything to stop it. On Sunday morning's edition of CNN's "State of the Union," host Jake Tapper pressed Rubio about the recent United Nations report on climate change, which predicts global catastrophe if carbon emissions are not cut dramatically in the next 12 years." o you believe [climate change] is, at least in part, man-made?" Tapper asked. Rubio said that while scientists agree that human behavior is "contributing" to climate change, "I can't tell you what percentage of that is due to human activity." He also claimed that "many scientists" would "debate the percentage of what is attributable to man, versus normal fluctuations." No matter what we do with laws — let's say we went to all solar panels and did all that stuff, which is not realistic — this trend [of sea-level rise] would still continue," Rubio said. Instead of clean energy or reducing emissions, Rubio said he is focused on "strategies to mitigate those factors that are going be in place no matter what happens with our energy policy." But, he added, "I'm also not going to destroy our economy." Almost every word out of Rubio's mouth was either a lie or a shameful dodge. There is overwhelming scientific consensus, including from the United States government, that human activity is the main driver of climate change. There is no "debate" among scientists about this. Human society is overwhelmingly responsible for our warming planet. That's why it makes no sense to quibble, as Rubio does, about exactly what "percentage" of climate change is caused by humans. No matter what, the answer is "most or all of it." And contrary to Rubio's assertions, the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report says that drastic reductions in carbon emissions could, in fact, prevent the most catastrophic effects of climate change. The report says that in order to avoid irreversible global warming, "Global net human-caused emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) would need to fall by about 45 percent from 2010 levels by 2030, reaching 'net zero' around 2050." Reducing our carbon emissions will also reduce the effects of climate change. It's as simple as that. But Rubio apparently wants to throw up his hands and claim that since rising seas will drown Florida no matter what, all we can really do is strengthen levies or lift up roads and buildings. Rubio also seems to think that reducing carbon emissions would do more to "destroy our economy" than, say, allowing 1 million Florida homes to flood by the end of this century. Unfortunately, Republicans like Rubio have joined Trump in ignoring science, and doing everything they can to keep pumping as much carbon into the atmosphere as they can get away with. Americans deserve leaders who will do everything they can to prevent the catastrophic effects of climate change, instead of waffling and lying about it like Rubio. Published with permission of The American Independent.	False
90	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-12-19	2 concern after health care for Iowa caucusgoers in a Monmouth University survey from April.	here is no dealing with climate change unless we deal with corruption," Gunn-Wright said in a video set to be released Thursday afternoon.	350 Action gave both candidates three thumbs up.	Greenpeace graded her an A and Sanders an A+.	In California, nearly half of Democratic primary voters said climate should be the top issue for the next president, according to a Los Angeles Times poll published this month.		Elizabeth Warren Zeroes In On Climate Change Ahead Of Next Debate But the Massachusetts senator's campaign is ramping up its focus on the climate crisis ahead of Thursday night's debate in Los Angeles, where wildfires forced more than 40,000 to flee their homes less than two months ago. Last week, Warren unveiled her "Blue New Deal," the first comprehensive campaign proposal to revitalize coastal economies by fortifying ports, spurring new markets for seafood and completely overhauling the offshore energy industry. On Wednesday, she published an op-ed outlining how she'd target fossil fuel companies and reverse President Donald Trump's assault on environmental regulations during her first 100 days in the White House. Then, on Thursday, the campaign announced an endorsement from Rhiana Gunn-Wright, the policy researcher who helped write the Green New Deal resolution Warren co-sponsored in the Senate in February." here is no dealing with climate change unless we deal with corruption," Gunn-Wright said in a video set to be released Thursday afternoon. "Every time I read a Warren climate plan, I am confident that it can take us to a Green New Deal, because I see her thinking about: How do we use all the levers of government?"The endorsement comes as Warren is sliding in national polls, which commentators have largely attributed to her apparent wobbling on "Medicare for All." The loss of her brief front-runner status this fall is widely seen as aiding the surge of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) on her left and South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg on her right. Yet Warren's shift on climate could position her to be more competitive against Sanders, who has made his own push on the issue over the past month and picked up major endorsements from youth activists. Warren and Sanders have taken different approaches on climate. Warren has put out more than half a dozen individual plans to spend a combined $3 trillion on solving specific issues like spurring a green manufacturing boom and transitioning the military off fossil fuels. Sanders, by contrast, has released a $16.3 trillion megaproposal for a Green New Deal that includes everything from creating a public option for electricity to spending nearly $15 billion to encourage worker-owned grocery stores. Yet Warren trails Sanders only slightly on climate, according to green groups' rankings. Greenpeace graded her an A and Sanders an A+. On a scale of 200, the Sunrise Movement, the group that pushed the Green New Deal into the mainstream, scored Warren at 168 and Sanders at 183. 350 Action gave both candidates three thumbs up. Sanders has picked up endorsements from the teen-led U.S. Youth Climate Strike and 18-year-old activist Jamie Margolin. He's also backed by Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) and Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.), the star first-term Democrats who proposed the first two major pieces of Green New Deal legislation last month. (Sanders sponsored the Senate version of Ocasio-Cortez's Green New Deal for Public Housing bill last month). But the starkest contrast on the issue is between the two progressive contenders and their moderate rivals, former Vice President Joe Biden and Buttigieg. Biden's campaign is stacked with gas industry allies. Buttigieg's climate adviser, David Victor, has been called a "fossil fuel shill" for taking research funding from an oil giant and deflecting blame from the industry. It's unclear how much average voters care about a candidate's green credentials when the ability to defeat Trump, who is widely criticized as a climate change denier, is a foremost concern for Democrats and independents who lean left. Climate was the No. 2 concern after health care for Iowa caucusgoers in a Monmouth University survey from April. In California, nearly half of Democratic primary voters said climate should be the top issue for the next president, according to a Los Angeles Times poll published this month. The trend bears out nationally. About 38% of registered voters favored a Green New Deal proposal that spends upward of $10 trillion slashing climate-changing emissions by 2030, according to an August nationwide survey commissioned by the left-leaning think tank Data for Progress. That compared to 32.5% who preferred a $1.7 trillion plan to zero out emissions by 2050 ― more in line with what Biden proposed.	False
780	CBS News	left_center_bias	2017-06-02	It's now crystal clear President Trump is comfortable both ceding the moral high ground and the economic upper hand to countries like China, and endangering the future of our planet."	We can, and we must do both.	But we will not jeopardize our economy in order to please other counties that don't come anywhere near our environmental standards."	President Trump's decision will prove to be the right course of action and one I fully support."	Mayors and cities around the world to uphold the tenets of the Paris climate agreement and protect Boston against the very real impacts of climate change."		Trump supporters, opponents react to Paris climate agreement pullout President Trump followed through on his campaign promise to withdraw from the Paris climate accord by formally announcing the U.S. intention to pull out of the agreement, saying the move would help American workers and the economy." The Paris climate accord is simply the latest example of Washington entering an agreement that disadvantages the U.S. leaving American workers, who I love, and tax payers to absorb the cost in terms of lost jobs and lower wages and vastly diminished economic reduction," Mr. Trump said. Following Mr. Trump's announcement , reaction from both supporters applauding Mr. Trump's move, as well as those who disagree with the pull out, was swift across the political spectrum." The nations that remain in the Paris Agreement will be the nations that reap the benefits in jobs and industries created.  I believe the United States of America should be at the front of the pack.  But even in the absence of American leadership; even as this Administration joins a small handful of nations that reject the future; I'm confident that our states, cities, and businesses will step up and do even more to lead the way, and help protect for future generations the one planet we've got." Removing the United States from the Paris Agreement is a reckless and indefensible action. It undermines America's standing in the world and threatens to damage humanity's ability to solve the climate crisis in time. But make no mistake: if President Trump won't lead, the American people will. President Trump's decision is profoundly in conflict with what the majority of Americans want from our president; but no matter what he does, we will ensure that our inevitable transition to a clean energy economy continues." The Paris climate agreement was simply a raw deal for America. Signed by President Obama without Senate ratification, it would have driven up the cost of energy, hitting middle-class and low-income Americans the hardest. In order to unleash the power of the American economy, our government must encourage production of American energy. I commend President Trump for fulfilling his commitment to the American people and withdrawing from this bad deal." I applaud President Trump and his administration for dealing yet another significant blow to the Obama Administration's assault on domestic energy production and jobs. President Obama made commitments in this deal based off a costly power plan that we knew at the time was on shaky legal ground. By withdrawing from this unattainable mandate, President Trump has reiterated his commitment to protecting middle class families across the country and workers throughout coal country from higher energy prices and potential job loss." President Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement is a devastating failure of historic proportions. Future generations will look back on President Trump's decision as one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st century because of the huge damage to our economy, our environment and our geopolitical standing. Pulling out of the Paris agreement doesn't put America first, it puts America last in recognizing science, in being a world leader and protecting our own shore line, our economy and our planet. It's now crystal clear President Trump is comfortable both ceding the moral high ground and the economic upper hand to countries like China, and endangering the future of our planet." By walking away from this pact, President Trump is abandoning America's leadership position in the fight against the climate crisis and is sending a strong message to the rest of the world to create, design and manufacture clean energy solutions and create jobs elsewhere.  If President Trump wants nations like China and India to take stronger and swifter action on climate, then he should do so through the accountability and enforcement provisions in the Paris Agreement, not by breaking our word and storming out of the room." Today the President announced that the United States will no longer be bound by an agreement unilaterally entered into by the Obama Administration. This was neither submitted to nor ratified by the U.S. Senate, and is not in the best long term economic interest of the United States. President Trump's decision will prove to be the right course of action and one I fully support." Withdrawing the U.S. from the Paris climate agreement isn't just a setback, it's irresponsible. This damages our nation's reputation as an international leader and puts future generations at risk to the threat of climate change. Boston will not standby given what's at stake. As Mayor, I will continue to work with U.S. Mayors and cities around the world to uphold the tenets of the Paris climate agreement and protect Boston against the very real impacts of climate change." As a Governor, I always worked to balance economic growth and environmental protection.  We can, and we must do both.  President Trump acted in America's best interest, moving away from a flawed agreement that placed too heavy a burden on American jobs, and opening the door to a new agreement that reaches the right balance.  America will remain a leader in environmental protection.  But we will not jeopardize our economy in order to please other counties that don't come anywhere near our environmental standards." The decision by the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change is a major disappointment for global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote global security. The Secretary-General remains confident that cities, states and businesses within the United States -- along with other countries -- will continue to demonstrate vision and leadership by working for the low-carbon, resilient economic growth that will create quality jobs and markets for 21st century prosperity. It is crucial that the United States remains a leader on environmental issues."	False
414	talkingpointsmemo	left_bias	2018-04-18	Rural parts of Alabama are "prime targets" for landfills that accept out-of-state waste, it argued, meaning "that Alabama was becoming a dumping ground for the rest of the nation."	It smells like death."	"They don't want to dump it in their rivers, but I think each state should take care of their own waste."	"It smells like rotting corpses, or carcasses.	In South Carolina, a plan to store radioactive nuclear waste in a rural area prompted complaints that the state was being turned into a nuclear dump.		Reeking 'Poop Train' Of NYC Human Waste Wreaks Havoc On Alabama Town PARRISH, Ala. (AP) — A stinking trainload of human waste from New York City is stranded in a tiny Alabama town, spreading a stench like a giant backed-up toilet — and the "poop train" is just the latest example of the South being used as a dumping ground for other states' waste. In Parrish, Alabama, population 982, the sludge-hauling train cars have sat idle near the little league ball fields for more than two months, Mayor Heather Hall said. The smell is unbearable, especially around dusk after the atmosphere has become heated, she said." h my goodness, it's just a nightmare here," she said. "It smells like rotting corpses, or carcasses. It smells like death." All kinds of waste have been dumped in Georgia, Alabama and other Southern states in recent years, including toxic coal ash from power plants around the nation. In South Carolina, a plan to store radioactive nuclear waste in a rural area prompted complaints that the state was being turned into a nuclear dump. In Parrish, townspeople are considering rescheduling children's softball games, or playing at fields in other communities to escape the stink. Sherleen Pike, who lives about a half-mile from the railroad track, said she sometimes dabs peppermint oil under her nose because the smell is so bad." ould New York City like for us to send all our poop up there forever?" she said. "They don't want to dump it in their rivers, but I think each state should take care of their own waste." Alabama's inexpensive land and permissive zoning laws and a federal ban on dumping New Yorkers' excrement in the ocean got the poop train chugging, experts say. Nelson Brooke of the environmental group Black Warrior Riverkeeper, describes Alabama as "kind of an open-door, rubber-stamp permitting place" for landfill operators." t's easy for them to zip into a rural or poor community and set up shop and start making a ton of cash," he said. The poop train's cargo is bound for the Big Sky landfill, about 20 miles (30 kilometers) east of Parrish. The landfill has been accepting the New York sewage sludge since early 2017. Previously, it was transferred from trains to trucks in nearby West Jefferson, but officials there obtained an injunction to keep the sludge out of their town. The sludge "smells of dead rotting animals as well as human waste," West Jefferson's attorney said in a lawsuit against Big Sky Environmental LLC. It also caused the community to become "infested with flies," the complaint states. After West Jefferson went to court, the train stopped in late January in Parrish, which lacks the zoning regulations to block the train cars. It's sat there ever since." e're probably going to look at creating some simple zoning laws for the town of Parrish so we can be sure something like this does not happen again," the Parrish mayor said. Hall said she's optimistic the sludge will all be trucked to the landfill soon. New York City has discontinued shipping it to Alabama for the time being, said Eric Timbers, a city spokesman. Its waste, recovered from the sewage treatment process and often called "biosolids," has been sent out of state partly because the federal government in the late 1980s banned disposal in the Atlantic Ocean. In an earlier trash saga, a barge laden with 3,186 tons (2,890 metric tons) of non-toxic paper and commercial garbage from Long Island and New York City wandered the ocean for months in 1987, seeking a place to dump it after plans by a private developer to turn it into methane gas in North Carolina fell through. It was turned away by North Carolina, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, Florida, Mexico, Belize and the Bahamas. Brooke's Black Warrior Riverkeeper group last year opposed continued permits for the Big Sky landfill. Rural parts of Alabama are "prime targets" for landfills that accept out-of-state waste, it argued, meaning "that Alabama was becoming a dumping ground for the rest of the nation." Big Sky officials did not return multiple email and phone messages from The Associated Press seeking comment. Nationally, the waste and recycling industry generates more than $93 billion in gross revenue annually, said Brandon Wright, a spokesman for the National Waste & Recycling Association. Wright said there are many reasons waste is sometimes transported out of state. There might not be enough landfill space nearby "and the waste has to go somewhere, so it gets transported out of state," he said. Alabama and other Southern states have a long history accepting waste from around the U.S.A former state attorney general once described a giant west Alabama landfill as "America's Pay Toilet." It was among the nation's largest hazardous waste dumps when it opened in 1977. At its peak, the landfill took in nearly 800,000 tons (72,570 metric tons) of hazardous waste annually. Plans to dump coal ash in Southern states have been particularly contentious. Each year, U.S. coal plants produce about 100 million tons (90 metric tons) of coal ash and other waste; more than 4 million tons of it wound up in an Alabama landfill following a 2008 spill in Tennessee. In Parrish, the mayor hopes the material in the train cars is removed before the weather warms up." e're moving into the summer, and the summer in the South is not forgiving when it comes to stuff like this," she said.	False
237	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-04-29	But attempts to reach those areas had not been entirely successful."	On Sunday a spokesman for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said he was appealing for "additional resources" from the international community "to fund the response in the immediate, medium and longer term".	Thousands of people had already fled their homes to seek shelter from violence in camps for displaced people.	But reports said many thousands of homes had been flattened by the winds, and the area has been hit by militant Islamist violence in recent months, which could complicate humanitarian operations.	It's raining again and the second flight couldn't go."		Mozambique cyclone: Death toll rises as storm blocks aid The death toll in cyclone-hit northern Mozambique has risen to 38, officials say, as aid workers struggle to reach the worst-affected areas. Cyclone Kenneth struck the southern African nation last week with winds of 220km/h (140mph), flattening villages and damaging thousands more homes. The storm lost strength, but torrential rain was still battering the area on Monday, with more expected. As a result, flights have been grounded - hindering the aid effort. It is predicted the weather system will dump twice as much rainfall as Cyclone Idai, which struck last month, leaving more than 900 dead across Mozambique, Malawi and Zimbabwe. The flood risk was compounded by Kenneth hitting at the end of the rainy season when river levels were already high, the UN Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Affairs (Ocha) noted. Already, Pemba, the regional capital of Cabo Delgado state, has experienced more than 2m (6.5ft) of rain and flooding. According to Mozambique's National Institute of Disaster Management (INGC), 38 people have been killed by Cyclone Kenneth, while another 35,000 homes have been destroyed or damaged. The privately-owned O Pais website reported five people died after part of a rubbish dump collapsed onto homes in Pemba on Sunday evening. It is unclear if these deaths are recorded in the government total. Ocha says humanitarian needs "have sky-rocketed, and the humanitarian response will need to rapidly scale up". Some 200,000 people are in danger in Pemba alone, Ocha warned. Spokesman Saviano Abreu added that the situation in the northern towns of Macomia and Quissanga was critical, while there were also worries for the cut-off island of Ibo. But attempts to reach those areas had not been entirely successful." We managed to send one flight with World Food Programme (WFP) supplies of rice and biscuits, and some non-food items," Mr Abreu told news agency AFP." But unfortunately the weather conditions are changing too fast and threatening the operation. It's raining again and the second flight couldn't go." This satellite image shows the cyclone over northern Mozambique and Tanzania on Friday night. On Sunday a spokesman for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said he was appealing for "additional resources" from the international community "to fund the response in the immediate, medium and longer term". Tropical cyclones in this part of the Indian Ocean are not that rare. However, according to the BBC's Environment Correspondent Matt McGrath, Cyclone Idai was the seventh such major storm of the Indian Ocean season when it struck back in March. That is more than double the average for the time of year. What's even more unusual, however, is the fact Idai and Kenneth hit in such quick succession. According to the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), "there is no record of two storms of such intensity striking Mozambique in the same season". It is especially unusual in the context of the trend which has seen tropical cyclones in the region decrease slightly over the past seven decades. But it is far too early - and too small a sample size - to say whether this frequency is a direct result of climate change. Instead, experts point to other elements making the storm's impact worse which they know are related to climate change." There is absolutely no doubt that when there is a tropical cyclone like this, then because of climate change the rainfall intensities are higher," Dr Friederike Otto, from the University of Oxford, told the BBC in the aftermath of Cyclone Idai." And also because of sea-level rise, the resulting flooding is more intense than it would be without human-induced climate change." Cabo Delgado province is not as densely populated as the area hit by Cyclone Idai, and there is apparently more high ground there. That, in addition to warnings by authorities ahead of the storm, could significantly stem losses compared with Cyclone Idai. But reports said many thousands of homes had been flattened by the winds, and the area has been hit by militant Islamist violence in recent months, which could complicate humanitarian operations. Thousands of people had already fled their homes to seek shelter from violence in camps for displaced people.	False
804	The New York Times	left_center_bias	2017-06-20	Some environmental groups did not accept that explanation on Tuesday.	A company spokesman said the liability component of the plan was not part of the company's decision to endorse it.	The plan's Republican authors include James A. Baker III and George P. Shultz, both former secretaries of state, and Henry M. Paulson Jr., a former secretary of the Treasury.	Individual supporters include the theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking; Steven Chu, a secretary of energy under President Barack Obama; Michael R. Bloomberg, the former New York mayor; and the Indian industrialist Ratan Tata.	t's hard to argue against a fuel tax that Exxon's in favor of," he said.		Exxon Mobil Lends Its Support to a Carbon Tax Proposal The proposal also says companies that emit greenhouse gases should be protected from lawsuits over their contribution to climate change. Michael B. Gerrard, the director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia Law School and an expert on climate litigation, said there had been four suits brought against energy companies over climate change, including one brought by the eroding Arctic coastal town of Kivalina, Alaska. "None of those has gotten very far," Mr. Gerrard said, but "there continues to be talk of more." Mr. Gerrard added, "If a sufficiently high carbon tax were imposed, it could accomplish a lot more for fighting climate change than liability suits." The Climate Leadership Council's plan sets an initial tax of $40 per ton of carbon dioxide produced, which would add 36 cents to the cost of each gallon of gasoline sold. The group estimates the tax would raise more than $200 billion a year, and the rate would rise over time, dampening demand for fossil fuels. The average family of four would receive approximately $2,000 in the first year as a carbon dividend, the group says.A tax-and-dividend plan would cut American carbon pollution even as the Trump administration withdraws from the Paris climate accord, the group says. Exxon has said for years that it supports a carbon tax, at least in the abstract, but the company had never formally endorsed a proposal. In 2009, the company's chief executive, Rex W. Tillerson, who is now secretary of state, called carbon taxes "a more direct, a more transparent and a more effective approach" than a cap-and-trade proposal Congress was considering at the time. In a statement, the current chief executive of Exxon Mobil, Darren W. Woods, said the company was "encouraged" by the climate group's proposal, which "aligns closely with our longstanding principles." A company spokesman said the liability component of the plan was not part of the company's decision to endorse it. Some environmental groups did not accept that explanation on Tuesday. "Exxon is signing on to this carbon tax proposal because they know it's dead on arrival" in Congress, said Jamie Henn, a co-founder of 350. org. He added that protection from liability would be important to Exxon, which is under investigation for its past statements and actions on climate change. Along with the oil companies, the plan's corporate backers include Johnson & Johnson, Unilever, PepsiCo and Procter & Gamble. Ted Halstead, the chief executive of the Climate Leadership Council, said the group did not accept corporate contributions. Some environmental organizations, including the Nature Conservancy and the World Resources Institute, are endorsing the plan. Individual supporters include the theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking; Steven Chu, a secretary of energy under President Barack Obama; Michael R. Bloomberg, the former New York mayor; and the Indian industrialist Ratan Tata. The plan's Republican authors include James A. Baker III and George P. Shultz, both former secretaries of state, and Henry M. Paulson Jr., a former secretary of the Treasury. But Mr. Halstead said the council had "moved a little more to the center," adding new leaders like Lawrence H. Summers, a secretary of the Treasury under President Bill Clinton, and Laurene Powell Jobs, a philanthropist and the widow of the Apple founder Steve Jobs." or this to pass, it will have to pass on a bipartisan basis," Mr. Halstead said. Mr. Summers said the chances that Congress would pass a carbon tax in the near future were low. But, he said, "there is a reasonable shot that there will be an opening that will be taken in the next several years," especially because the dividends could benefit low-income Americans." t's hard to argue against a fuel tax that Exxon's in favor of," he said.	False
338	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-07-19	org.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Wind farms across the globe kill thousands of birds a year that inadvertently fly into their turbines.	For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.	However, not every ecologically minded group is on board with Icebreaker, the name of the project.		Enviros Come Out Against Offshore Wind Turbine In Lake Erie Conservation groups are protesting efforts to build a small offshore wind farm off the coast of Lake Erie, arguing that the project poses a grave risk to the local bird population.A local energy company wants to construct a six-turbine, 20.7 megawatt offshore wind development eight miles from Cleveland in Lake Erie. If completed, it would be the first freshwater offshore wind farm on the continent. Supporters point out the project would create more than 500 jobs and pump millions into the local economy over the turbines' 25-year lifespan. Lake Erie Energy Development Corporation, the company behind the project, also argues it would be a step forward for environmentally friendly energy production. However, not every ecologically minded group is on board with Icebreaker, the name of the project. The Black Swamp Bird Observatory and the American Bird Conservancy — two different bird conservation groups — are opposed to the proposal, claiming the turbines would harm the local bird population and that major errors were made during an environmental assessment. (RELATED: Disposal Of Wind Turbines Proving To Be A Major Environmental Concern)"We reject the [environmental assessment's] claim that this wind energy facility would have 'little to no impact'" on birds, Kimberly Kaufman, Black Swamp Bird Observatory's executive director, said in a statement." he six-turbine Icebreaker project poses a larger threat to wildlife than is now indicated in the documents," Kaufman continued. "But the planned expansion of offshore wind energy to over 1,000 turbines will have even more major impacts to birds that breed and migrate across Lake Erie, and that must be addressed." The bird conservancy groups point out that "vast numbers" of migratory birds and bats have been recorded just a few miles from the Great Lakes shorelines, with many flying at the same level of the rotor-swept area of windmills. They submitted their concerns to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of Energy.A second public hearing about Icebreaker will take place Thursday at Cleveland City Council. This is far from the first time bird advocates have lamented over wind turbines. Wind farms across the globe kill thousands of birds a year that inadvertently fly into their turbines. Offshore wind farms, while also posing a threat to birds, can also harm the local aquatic ecosystem. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
84	vox	left_bias	2019-02-23	No small matter.	However, Gregory noted that the government didn't object to any of the evidence presented in the plaintiff's injunction request, nor did it present any new evidence for its request to deny the request.	With the case currently tied up in appeals, the plaintiffs wanted to make sure the current state of affairs with respect to climate change doesn't get worse as the wheels of justice slowly turn."	In so doing, the government has deprived the plaintiffs — the youngest is 11 years old — the right to a safe and stable climate system.	As Gregory and the other attorneys for the children wrote in their injunction request, "This injunction is urgently needed because, despite long-standing knowledge of the resulting destruction to our Nation and the profound harm to these young Plaintiffs, Defendants' ongoing development of the fossil fuel-based energy system is actively harming Plaintiffs and jeopardizing Plaintiffs' ability to obtain the full remedy in their case."		The kids suing the government over climate change want to halt fossil fuel extraction  The attorneys representing young people who are suing the federal government in a major climate change lawsuit recently took the unusual step of filing an injunction to stop all new leases for fossil fuel production. If the injunction is granted, it would lead to a nationwide moratorium on new fossil fuel permitting and leasing on federal lands and waters until the lawsuit is resolved. No small matter. However, existing mining and drilling projects would still proceed. The Juliana v. United States lawsuit, filed by 21 young plaintiffs, is currently going through pre-trial appeals at the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The suit alleges that not only did the federal government fail to act to limit climate change, it profited off of selling coal, oil, and gas rights. The government encouraged mining and drilling while knowing full well the hazards caused by burning these fuels, namely climate change. In so doing, the government has deprived the plaintiffs — the youngest is 11 years old — the right to a safe and stable climate system. The lawsuit was first filed in 2015 but has proceeded in starts and stops. At one point, the Supreme Court stepped in to pause the case days before the trial before allowing it to go ahead. An appeals court has now stepped in to consider the government's motion to dismiss the case. Then on February 7, the plaintiffs filed their injunction against new fossil fuel extraction on government territory. Philip Gregory, one of the lead attorneys representing the children filing suit, explained that the injunction request is meant to address the urgency of limiting climate change by reducing emissions from fossil fuels immediately. With the case currently tied up in appeals, the plaintiffs wanted to make sure the current state of affairs with respect to climate change doesn't get worse as the wheels of justice slowly turn." e would have preferred to go to trial, submit our extensive evidence, and have the judge require the defendants to come up with a plan, a national climate recovery plan, for how they're going to go about doing this," Gregory said. As Gregory and the other attorneys for the children wrote in their injunction request, "This injunction is urgently needed because, despite long-standing knowledge of the resulting destruction to our Nation and the profound harm to these young Plaintiffs, Defendants' ongoing development of the fossil fuel-based energy system is actively harming Plaintiffs and jeopardizing Plaintiffs' ability to obtain the full remedy in their case." Numerous experts including retired Navy Vice Admiral Lee Gunn, economist Joseph Stiglitz, and climate scientist Eric Rignot have also filed amicus briefs supporting the injunction against new federal fossil fuel development. In response, the federal government argued this week that the injunction maneuver is a ploy to bypass proper legal proceedings. "Indeed, Plaintiffs by their present motion are essentially making a bid in this Court for a substitute mini-trial or 'trial lite' — which is premature until the pure issues of law now being briefed in this interlocutory appeal are appropriately resolved as a threshold matter," wrote attorneys for the US Department of Justice. They described the injunction request as an "ambitious attempt to throttle important government functions superintending broad swaths of the national economy." The government also noted that the Juliana lawsuit was filed more than three years ago but the plaintiffs hadn't asked to block fossil fuel leasing until now, which undermines the plaintiffs' argument that without immediate action, they would suffer irreparable harm. However, Gregory noted that the government didn't object to any of the evidence presented in the plaintiff's injunction request, nor did it present any new evidence for its request to deny the request. "Because there is no contrary evidence, then we are very optimistic that this injunction will go through," Gregory said. The Juliana v. United States is just one of more than a dozen climate change lawsuits underway in the US right now. Besides suing the government, several counties and cities are seeking damages from coal, oil, and gas companies for contributing to climate change, which in turn is posing a public nuisance to these jurisdictions. Legal experts say that these lawsuits are long shots and they're testing the limits of what existing jurisprudence covers. But if they succeed, they could set critical precedents, lead to billion-dollar payouts, and radically reshape the effort to limit global warming.	False
252	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-05	Buttigieg said he would explain climate change to folks in the heartland by telling them God thought greenhouse gases were a sin.	Banning nuclear energy.	No compromises on the road to utopia.	Bernie Sanders suggested global population control, encouraged by organizations that promote abortion abroad.	Set aside, for the moment, the appalling wastefulness of devoting seven hours — seven consecutive hours — of prime time programming to the subject.	Some of the candidates barely seemed to care.1. <sep> 	Pollak: The Craziest Things Said at the CNN Climate Town Hall Over the course of seven hours, the top ten Democratic candidates for president in 2020 committed to radical solutions to "climate change" — a problem that, assuming the worst-case scenarios are true, will result in our grandchildren being much richer than we are, instead of much much richer. Set aside, for the moment, the appalling wastefulness of devoting seven hours — seven consecutive hours — of prime time programming to the subject. Clearly, CNN wanted to make a political statement about how important it thinks climate change ought to be in the election. Good. Given that the United States is the only country in the world that has reduced emissions over the past decade-and-a-half while growing its economy, and that the main reason is the growth of hydraulic fracturing ("fracking"), which Trump has supported and almost every Democratic candidate promises to ban, the only choice is to vote for the Republicans. That is, if you really care about climate change. (Otherwise you're just putting party before planet). That wasn't the point CNN wanted to make. Nor was it CNN's goal to expose the ignorance and extremism of the Democratic field. Yet that is exactly what happened. Given 40 minutes apiece, the aspiring Democratic contenders showed that they are willing to de-industrialize the U.S. economy, put millions of people out of work, and lower the standard of living for tens of millions more, all for the sake of "science" they cannot explain and do not understand. It wasn't all the candidates' fault. CNN kept making "scientific" claims that ranged from half-truths to pure baloney. Again and again, for instance, moderators suggested that Hurricane Dorian was caused by climate change, or a sign of things to come. (It isn't.)But give the network partial credit for noting that plans like the "Green New Deal" will hurt mining and agricultural communities. Some of the candidates barely seemed to care.1. Taxing "carbon pollution." Some called it a "carbon fee"; others called it a "carbon tax." Former U.S. Rep. Beto O'Rourke (D-TX) was the only one offering a "cap-and-trade" system as an alternative. All believe that you should be paying more for fuel. None suggested making it revenue-neutral — say, by lowering payroll taxes — though South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg would redistribute the money to the poor. (Learn from California: that's not happening.) 2. Banning fracking. With the possible exception of former vice president Joe Biden (who agreed last month at the second debate that he would "eliminate" fracking) and former HUD Secretary Julián Castro (who would back bans at state and local levels), all of the Democrats want to ban the one innovation that has made the greatest difference for our planet in the last twenty years, powered the economic recovery, and made us less dependent on the Mideast. 3. Ending oil and gas exploration and extraction on public lands. The Obama administration tried it, too. Never mind that some public lands have been specifically set aside for oil and gas development. There seems to be little thought about the impact that would have on the U.S. economy, on fuel prices, and on national security. Nor is any credit given for industry advances in environmentally-friendly technology (except as a warrant for more regulation). 4. Banning nuclear energy. Perhaps with Nevada — the fourth state in the 2020 primary contests — in mind, most of the candidates objected to nuclear energy because of challenges around nuclear waste storage. Only businessman Andrew Yang and Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) offered defenses of nuclear power as a zero-emissions alternative, with Booker making the obvious argument: if you believe we need to reduce emissions quickly, nuclear is the only way. 5. Banning plastic straws, discouraging meat, eliminating incandescent light bulbs. Sen. Kamala Harris (D-CA) admitted that paper straws are useless, but wants to ban the plastic ones anyway, based on pseudoscience. Booker, a vegan, says you can eat what you want — thanks! — but the rest want you to find another source of protein. And the candidates mocked Trump for halting the imposition of energy-efficient bulbs — seemingly ignorant of health risks. The craziness didn't end there. Biden blamed climate change for the cancer and the genocide in Darfur (previously thought to be the fault of Arab militias slaughtering, raping, and displacing black African civilians). Buttigieg said he would explain climate change to folks in the heartland by telling them God thought greenhouse gases were a sin. Bernie Sanders suggested global population control, encouraged by organizations that promote abortion abroad. They all want to rejoin the Paris Climate Accords; none wants to submit them to the Senate for ratification, but several want to eliminate or evade the filibuster to pass the "Green New Deal" — the "green" socialist manifesto written by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY). No compromises on the road to utopia. And plenty new material for Trump's campaign ads. Send a receipt to Jeff Zucker and file a form with the FEC. This one will leave a mark. Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He earned an A.B. in Social Studies and Environmental Science and Public Policy from Harvard College, and a J.D. from Harvard Law School. He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship. He is also the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.	True
882	RT	questionable_source	2017-08-23	inus 3 is not that far from zero," Dr. Romanovsky told the New York Times.	That] has all kind of consequences both locally for this region, for the animals and the people who live here, as well as globally," Max Holmes, a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska, told the New York Times.	Located in high latitudes, it covers about 24 percent of the land surface in the northern hemisphere, and can be up to 1km thick.	He estimates that if emissions and warming continue at the same rate, near-surface temperatures will rise above freezing around the middle of the century.	n order to know how much is lost, you have to know how much is there," Sue Natali, a Woods Hole scientist and permafrost expert told the New York Times.		Alaska's thawing permafrost could be gone in decades – study The permafrost that covers great swaths of Siberia, northern Canada, Alaska and Greenland is warming twice as fast as other parts of the planet and could be gone by midcentury, causing more warming and releasing gigatonnes of carbon dioxide and methane." That] has all kind of consequences both locally for this region, for the animals and the people who live here, as well as globally," Max Holmes, a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska, told the New York Times. As global temperatures rise, scientists are trying to determine the likely speed and scale of the melting of Alaska's permafrost. In geology, permafrost is a thick subsurface layer of soil that remains frozen throughout the year. Located in high latitudes, it covers about 24 percent of the land surface in the northern hemisphere, and can be up to 1km thick. Some of the permafrost dates back to the last Ice Age. Most of this area is found in Siberia, northern Canada, Alaska and Greenland. Permafrost is thought to contain about twice as much carbon dioxide and methane as is currently in the atmosphere. When permafrost melts, microbes convert carbon to carbon dioxide, causing even more warming. Scientists estimate the thawing could contribute as much as 1.7F (1C) to global warming over the next several centuries, regardless of what nations do to reduce emissions from burning fossil fuels and other activities. Holmes led a team of scientists in July to take permafrost cores, sediment and water samples from the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge to better understand how thawing permafrost affects the landscape, and how much and what mix of greenhouse gases are released." n order to know how much is lost, you have to know how much is there," Sue Natali, a Woods Hole scientist and permafrost expert told the New York Times. Vladimir Romanovsky, a permafrost researcher with the University of Alaska, Fairbanks said the temperatures at a depth of 65ft have risen to 5.5F (-3C) over decades." inus 3 is not that far from zero," Dr. Romanovsky told the New York Times. He estimates that if emissions and warming continue at the same rate, near-surface temperatures will rise above freezing around the middle of the century. In 2013, the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) projected that temperature increases in Alaska and northern Russia could reduce permafrost by between 37 and 87 percent by the end of this century. If that occurs, it could potentially leak 1,700 gigatonnes of carbon and methane – twice what is already in the atmosphere.A global temperature rise of 2.7F (1.5C) above current levels would be enough to start the thawing of the permafrost in Siberia, according to scientists from the earth sciences depart at Oxford University in a report published in Science Express in 2016.	False
396	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-08-14	"They go to the same little trough of Kool-Aid every day.	The left, he said, is "angry," "intolerant" and "uninformed" when it comes to public lands and environmental issues ― and they aren't interested in debate, one of the things that have "made America great."	It doesn't matter whether you believe or don't believe in climate change," he said during another interview this weekend while touring neighborhoods torched by the deadly Carr fire west of Redding, California.	What makes Zinke's statements during his trip to California so astonishing is that they come two days after he stressed the importance of being informed and open-minded.	They don't want to be informed.		It's Official: Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke Is An Ostrich About Wildfires At a conservative event in Steamboat Springs, Colorado, on Friday, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke pounced on the opportunity to blast his critics, including the "environmental terrorists" he blames for wildfires in the West. The left, he said, is "angry," "intolerant" and "uninformed" when it comes to public lands and environmental issues ― and they aren't interested in debate, one of the things that have "made America great." They don't want to be informed. They don't want to do the research," Zinke said. "They go to the same little trough of Kool-Aid every day. And they don't want to expand their paradigm and look at the actual facts." On Sunday, Zinke traveled to fire-ravaged California, where he made it abundantly clear that the Trump administration has no interest in the scientific research showing climate change is contributing to the extreme fires raging across the West or that the effect on wildfires is expected to grow as climate change drives up global temperatures and fuels droughts." 've heard the climate change argument back and forth. This has nothing to do with climate change," he told KCRA-TV in Sacramento. "This has to do with active forest management." It doesn't matter whether you believe or don't believe in climate change," he said during another interview this weekend while touring neighborhoods torched by the deadly Carr fire west of Redding, California. To be fair, Zinke acknowledged that "there's no doubt the [fire] season is getting longer, the temperatures are getting hotter," as The Sacramento Bee reported. But he didn't dwell on those factors and instead argued for more logging and thinning of forests while taking another swing at environmental groups that he says stand in the way of such efforts. It's true that the accumulation of fuel is among the factors that have contributed to increased fire activity, and California is taking additional steps to improve forest health. But a 2016 study found that human-caused climate change had doubled the amount of land that burned in Western forests over a 30-year period by significantly drying out vegetation. Thirteen of the state's 20 most-destructive fires on record have occurred since 2003. Coming in at No. 6 is the Carr fire, which has burned more than 200,000 acres, destroyed 1,599 structures and killed seven people, including three firefighters. Additionally, 15 of the state's 20 largest fires have occurred since 2002. The Mendocino Complex fire, which has burned nearly 300,000 acres north of Santa Rosa, surpassed last year's Thomas fire as the largest wildfire in California's history. California is already way ahead of where it was at this time last year, both in terms of the number of fires fought and the acreage burned. That a member of President Donald Trump's Cabinet would dismiss the link between climate change and wildfire is par for the course. What makes Zinke's statements during his trip to California so astonishing is that they come two days after he stressed the importance of being informed and open-minded. As HuffPost reported last week, the administration appears to be using the disaster in California as an opportunity to push partisan policy. While Zinke works the logging angle, Trump and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross have attempted to connect devastating California wildfires to a longstanding fight between farmers and environmentalists over water resources. The move came just two days after California fire officials dismissed Trump's claims that the fires have been exacerbated by a water shortage resulting from "bad environmental laws." As they see it, the problem is the one that Zinke and other administration officials refuse to acknowledge.	False
746	Yahoo News	left_center_bias	2017-04-28	The people have been heard and will continue to be heard," Brune said.	I pledged to take action and today I am keeping that promise," he said.	The move was swiftly condemned by environmentalists, but Trump hailed it as a victory for the economy."	"Holing up at Mar-a-lago may protect Trump from an oil spill, but it will not protect him and his cabinet of one percenters from the millions of people in this country — from California to North Carolina — who will resist his disastrous policies."	At the time, an Obama administration official suggested that Trump would not be able to reverse the ban without an act from Congress because of its "strong legal basis."		Trump signs order to reverse Obama's ban on Arctic drilling U.S. President Donald Trump displays an Executive Order on "Offshore Energy Strategy" at the White House in Washington, U.S., April 28, 2017. (Photo: Kevin Lamarque/Reuters)On the eve of his 100th day in the White House, President Trump signed an executive order Friday intended to let energy companies drill for oil in currently protected areas of the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans. The move was swiftly condemned by environmentalists, but Trump hailed it as a victory for the economy." his is a great day for American workers and families. And today we're unleashing American energy and clearing the way for thousands and thousands of high-paying American energy jobs," Trump said, before signing the order. So far, Trump's energy policies have aimed at reversing the plentiful environmental protections established by his predecessor, former President Barack Obama. In the Roosevelt Room of the White House, Trump said the United States is blessed with wonderful natural resources, including offshore oil and natural gas reserves, which can be harnessed to stimulate energy production and job growth. He said the federal government has closed off 94 percent of these offshore areas, preventing potential energy production." nd when they say closed, they mean closed. This deprives our country of potentially thousands and thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in wealth. I pledged to take action and today I am keeping that promise," he said. Trump's signing of the "America-First Offshore Energy Strategy" comes a day before the People's Climate March, an international protest against Trump's energy and environmental policies. The flagship march in Washington, D.C., and the more than 300 affiliated marchers across the globe, are expected to draw thousands. Though similar to last week's March for Science, the march on Saturday will focus on Trump's efforts to remove regulations intended to protect the environment and curb climate change rather than scientific integrity. According to Trump, the new executive order begins the process of opening many offshore areas to "job-creating energy exploration" and rescinds the Obama administration's permanent protection of the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans.A month before leaving office, Obama banned offshore drilling in nearly all of the Arctic under U.S. control to protect marine life and prevent potential oil spills. He also declared portions of the Atlantic Ocean unsuitable for drilling. Obama relied upon a little-known 1953 law that allows the president to ban oil and gas drilling indefinitely in U.S. waters. At the time, an Obama administration official suggested that Trump would not be able to reverse the ban without an act from Congress because of its "strong legal basis." On Thursday night, Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke briefed the press on the content's of the executive order. He said it would direct the Interior and Commerce Departments to review offshore drilling and gas regulations in protected areas. As expected, the response to Trump's executive order from the environmental community was swift and harsh. Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, released a statement saying that millions of Americans concerned about the dangers of offshore drilling will not be drowned out, regardless of the oil lobby's influence over Trump." ust as he has throughout his 99 days in office, Donald Trump will fail in this attempt to destroy our beaches and coastal communities. The people have been heard and will continue to be heard," Brune said. Greenpeace USA's senior climate and energy campaigner Diana Best also released a statement condemning Trump's executive order. She said that renewable energy has already set the U.S. on course for energy independence and that offshore oil and gas drilling will condemn the nation to decades more of pollution." his executive order from the Trump administration is just the latest in a series of attempted rollbacks that most people in this country do not want, and only come at the behest of Trump's inner circle of desperate fossil-fuel executives," Best said. "Holing up at Mar-a-lago may protect Trump from an oil spill, but it will not protect him and his cabinet of one percenters from the millions of people in this country — from California to North Carolina — who will resist his disastrous policies."	False
430	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-11-13	twitter.	"We welcome the presence of these activists, and we strongly urge the Capitol Police to allow them to continue to organize and participate in our democracy."	pic.	California is burning.	Fossil fuel billionaires have a grip on America's democracy.		Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Attends Climate Change Protest During Orientation The progressive Democratic newcomer from New York joined more than 100 environmental youth activists on Tuesday for a sit-in inside House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi's Capitol Hill office to encourage a deal to transition to a 100 percent renewable energy-based economy to fight climate change. The demonstration took place the same day that new members of Congress, including Ocasio-Cortez, arrived for orientation." hey asked me to join them, and I did," Ocasio-Cortez tweeted of her involvement with members of the Sunrise Movement and Justice Democrats who visited several elected officials' offices in the building. "We can embrace the energy of activism to move our party's goals forward." Pelosi's office, in a statement shared by Ocasio-Cortez on Twitter, expressed support for the activists and said that she has recommended reinstating the Select Committee on Climate Change, a special climate change committee that was dissolved by Republicans in 2011." ouse Democrats ran on and won on our bold campaign for a $1 trillion investment in our infrastructure that will make our communities more resilient to the climate crisis, while creating 16 million new good-paying jobs across the country," Pelosi's statement read. "We welcome the presence of these activists, and we strongly urge the Capitol Police to allow them to continue to organize and participate in our democracy." California is burning. Fossil fuel billionaires have a grip on America's democracy. We're running out of time to act. But we're going to win. We'll pass a #GreenNewDeal & win the solutions we need. We'll win because we have a movement behind us. And together, we're unstoppable. pic. twitter. com/mw6dKSxPVj — 350 dot org (@350) November 13, 2018Members of the Sunrise Movement, responding to Pelosi's support in their own statement on Twitter, said they welcomed her endorsement but added that "words aren't enough." The group urged her to "step aside" if she is unable to mandate such a plan. Ocasio-Cortez added that she supports Pelosi reinstating the Select Committee and highlighted the activists' requests that the committee draft a Green New Deal calling for 100 percent renewable energy and a commitment from the committee's appointed members that they won't accept funding from the fossil fuel industry.	False
515	usatoday	left_center_bias	2018-04-16	Trump's action empowers Pruitt "to ignore science and data" in determining compliance with air quality standards, said Sara Jordan, Legislative Representative for the League of Conservation Voters."	Another would permit the EPA to discount many studies used as the basis for air quality standards for a lack of "transparency" because those analyses use individual health data that can't be disclosed because they're protected under federal privacy laws."	One of the most troubling aspects of Trump's order is that it's directing an agency established to reduce pollution to make job creation an express priority, said John Walke, director of the Natural Resources Defense Council's clean air program."	These actions are intended to ensure that EPA carries out its core missions of protecting the environment and improving air quality in accord with statutory requirements, while reducing unnecessary impediments to new manufacturing and business expansion essential for a growing economy," the president said in a statement accompanying the order.	In the 14 months he's been the nation's top environmental rulemaker, the former Oklahoma attorney general who sued the EPA more than a dozen times has rolled back the Clean Power Plan, rescinded the Waters of the U.S. rule, and helped convince the president to back out of the Paris Accord on climate change, among a number of changes.		President Trump directs EPA to ease air quality rules he says suffocates industry WASHINGTON — President Trump's latest effort to boost the nation's manufacturing sector is an industry-friendly rewrite of air quality regulations he says pose "unnecessary and outdated barriers to growth." But environmental advocates warn it would be another damaging step by an administration obsessed with deregulation at the expense of hard-fought public health protections. The proposed loosening of air quality standards came in the form of a directive Trump issued Thursday instructing the EPA to work with states that have metro areas which failed to attain clean air standards. The president's primary aim, the directive states, is "promoting domestic manufacturing and job creation." Dozens of communities across the country fail to meet Clean Air Act standards for at least one of six key pollutants — ground-level ozone (smog), particulate matter (soot or smoke), carbon monoxide, lead, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen dioxide — according to the EPA. Building or expanding major projects, such as highways and manufacturing plants, in these "non-attainment" areas requires extra time and cost to make sure the increased industrial activity won't worsen air quality. And states with non-attainment areas have to file plans with the EPA to show how they're confronting the problem, a review process that can take years. Trump's directive orders the EPA to work with states to expedite those approvals and instructs the agency to consider whether the current process "should be revised or rescinded ... to provide states with additional implementation flexibility." These actions are intended to ensure that EPA carries out its core missions of protecting the environment and improving air quality in accord with statutory requirements, while reducing unnecessary impediments to new manufacturing and business expansion essential for a growing economy," the president said in a statement accompanying the order. Read More: Assailed as tool of industry, EPA administrator Pruitt affirms importance of scienceRead More: Exclusive: EPA's Pruitt vows to continue rolling back rules despite alarming climate reportRead More: Scott Pruitt on a mission to change the climate of the EPAThe directive comes at a time when the EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has been under increasing bipartisan fire on Capitol Hill for a number of management missteps, spending decisions and potential ethical conflicts. The president has staunchly defended Pruitt, largely because Trump and his conservative allies applaud how aggressively the EPA is rolling back regulations and promoting economic growth. In the 14 months he's been the nation's top environmental rulemaker, the former Oklahoma attorney general who sued the EPA more than a dozen times has rolled back the Clean Power Plan, rescinded the Waters of the U.S. rule, and helped convince the president to back out of the Paris Accord on climate change, among a number of changes. And Trump's vow to bring back coal, important in mining states like West Virginia where he just visited, have been buoyed by Pruitt's actions. The air quality directive doesn't instruct the EPA to revise the air quality standards themselves. Instead, environmental advocates worry the administration would try to circumvent clean air standards without congressional say-so by pursuing steps that could make it easier for industry to meet current regulations without being required to improve the quality of the air Americans beathe every day. One of those steps, they say, would allow states to expand the size of non-attainment areas to include areas with cleaner air so that overall pollutant levels meet environmental standards. Another would permit the EPA to discount many studies used as the basis for air quality standards for a lack of "transparency" because those analyses use individual health data that can't be disclosed because they're protected under federal privacy laws." This is a backhanded way of weakening the most important and sacrosanct provision of the clean Air Act and he's no doing it through any normal legislative process," said Bill Becker, former executive director of the National Association of Clean Air Agencies which represents state regulators. Trump's action empowers Pruitt "to ignore science and data" in determining compliance with air quality standards, said Sara Jordan, Legislative Representative for the League of Conservation Voters." By directing the EPA to reconsider all of its past guidance from the (federal air quality) program, Trump is threatening clean air protections for cities across the country," she said. "This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters." Industry representatives say the maze of federal rules governing a slew of environmental and health standards are unnecessary and burdensome. If states had more wiggle room in how they measure and apply air quality standards, thousands of jobs could be created, they said." ver the years, regulations on air quality have become so complicated that it can be nearly impossible for manufacturers to secure the needed approvals just to open a new facility," said Ross Eisenberg, Vice President for Energy and Resources Policy with the National Association of Manufacturers. EPA officials point out that much progress has been made on air quality in recent decades.  Levels of Nitrogen Dioxide (NOx), for example, have dropped by more than 50 percent since 2000. There are no monitors in the U.S. currently measuring pollution above those standards. The order encourages federal and state regulators to speed up reviews of air quality permits, echoing Trump's call for quicker approvals involving infrastructure projects such as bridges, roads and pipelines. But Becker said that comes off as a hollow demand considering the president's budget calls for significant cuts in EPA personnel and state environmental grants that help pay for such reviews. One of the most troubling aspects of Trump's order is that it's directing an agency established to reduce pollution to make job creation an express priority, said John Walke, director of the Natural Resources Defense Council's clean air program." The memo encourages reliance on air pollution modeling for deregulatory purposes or permits desired by industry, but not for regulatory purposes that would better protect Americans," he said.	False
145	politicususa	left_bias	2019-04-29	Other candidates have announced some specific policy measures related to climate change and the environment in recent weeks, and Warren has unveiled a public lands policy that would ban new drilling and mining leases on federal lands.	he bill will be funded with the revenues generated by structural changes to the tax code that ensure corporations and the wealthiest among us pay their fair share and that we finally end the tens of billions of dollars of tax breaks currently given to fossil fuel companies," O'Rourke's legislative proposal states.	he greatest threat we face, which will test our country, our democracy, every single one of us, is climate change," O'Rourke said in a statement.	His plan also calls for raising taxes on the wealthy and on corporations to help fund some $5 trillion in projects to modernize infrastructure and clean energy technology over a decade.	eto claims to support the Green New Deal, but his plan is out of line with the timeline it lays out and the scale of action that scientists say is necessary to take here in the United States to give our generation a livable future," said Sunrise founder Varshini Prakash.		Democratic presidential candidate O'Rourke lays out $5 trillion climate plan (Reuters) – U.S. presidential candidate Beto O'Rourke on Monday laid out one of the most detailed climate policies so far in the crowded Democratic field, calling for a $5 trillion investment in clean energy technology and infrastructure over 10 years with a goal of reaching net-zero emissions by 2050.O'Rourke, the former Texas congressman, made climate change the focus of his first major policy announcement, unveiling the plan ahead of a campaign stop meeting with scientists at the iconic Yosemite National Park in California." he greatest threat we face, which will test our country, our democracy, every single one of us, is climate change," O'Rourke said in a statement. The plan lays out a series of executive actions that would reverse the "energy dominance" policies of President Donald Trump, who has been rolling back environmental regulation to increase domestic fossil fuels production.O'Rourke's measures include U.S. re-entry into the Paris Climate Agreement, ordering a reduction in methane emissions from oil and gas operations, halting new drilling leases on federal land and restoring pollution standards for power plants. His plan also calls for raising taxes on the wealthy and on corporations to help fund some $5 trillion in projects to modernize infrastructure and clean energy technology over a decade. The net-zero goal in O'Rourke's and other climate plans means reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions 100 percent or offsetting them by as much as is emitted." he bill will be funded with the revenues generated by structural changes to the tax code that ensure corporations and the wealthiest among us pay their fair share and that we finally end the tens of billions of dollars of tax breaks currently given to fossil fuel companies," O'Rourke's legislative proposal states. The plan appears to align with some of the principles of the Green New Deal, a bold set of policy goals introduced by congressional Democrats, that would transform the U.S. energy economy to 100 percent renewable sources by 2030, using federal funds to invest in modern infrastructure and green job programs. Most of the Democratic presidential candidates, including Bernie Sanders, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren, have embraced the Green New Deal, which has become a focus of attacks by the Republican party, which calls it unfeasible. Other candidates have announced some specific policy measures related to climate change and the environment in recent weeks, and Warren has unveiled a public lands policy that would ban new drilling and mining leases on federal lands. Environmental group the League of Conservation Voters on Monday praised O'Rourke's plan, saying that it offered "the kind of leadership we need from the next president." Still, the upstart Sunrise Movement, the youth-led group that has pushed the Green New Deal into the spotlight, said O'Rourke's plan fell short of what they said scientists said was necessary to fend off the worst impacts of climate change. The Green New Deal calls for achieving net zero emissions within a decade, not by mid-century, as O'Rourke's plan sets out." eto claims to support the Green New Deal, but his plan is out of line with the timeline it lays out and the scale of action that scientists say is necessary to take here in the United States to give our generation a livable future," said Sunrise founder Varshini Prakash.	False
810	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-08-07	In contrast to these newly contentious climate terms, Moebius-Clune wrote that references to economic growth, emerging business opportunities in the rural US, agro-tourism and "improved aesthetics" should be "tolerated if not appreciated by all".	Namely, that priority is climate change.	o think that federal agency staff who report about the air, water and soil that sustains the health of our nation must conform their reporting with the Trump administration's anti-science rhetoric is appalling and dangerous for America and the greater global community."	hese records reveal Trump's active censorship of science in the name of his political agenda," said Meg Townsend, open government attorney at the Center for Biological Diversity."	Bramblett added that "prudence" should be used when discussing greenhouse gases and said the agency's work on air quality regarding these gases could be discontinued.		US federal department is censoring use of term 'climate change', emails reveal Staff at the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) have been told to avoid using the term climate change in their work, with the officials instructed to reference "weather extremes" instead.A series of emails obtained by the Guardian between staff at the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), a USDA unit that oversees farmers' land conservation, show that the incoming Trump administration has had a stark impact on the language used by some federal employees around climate change.A missive from Bianca Moebius-Clune, director of soil health, lists terms that should be avoided by staff and those that should replace them. "Climate change" is in the "avoid" category, to be replaced by "weather extremes". Instead of "climate change adaption", staff are asked to use "resilience to weather extremes". The primary cause of human-driven climate change is also targeted, with the term "reduce greenhouse gases" blacklisted in favor of "build soil organic matter, increase nutrient use efficiency". Meanwhile, "sequester carbon" is ruled out and replaced by "build soil organic matter". In her email to staff, dated 16 February this year, Moebius-Clune said the new language was given to her staff and suggests it be passed on. She writes that "we won't change the modeling, just how we talk about it – there are a lot of benefits to putting carbon back in the sail [sic], climate mitigation is just one of them", and that a colleague from USDA's public affairs team gave advice to "tamp down on discretionary messaging right now". In contrast to these newly contentious climate terms, Moebius-Clune wrote that references to economic growth, emerging business opportunities in the rural US, agro-tourism and "improved aesthetics" should be "tolerated if not appreciated by all". In a separate email to senior employees on 24 January, just days after Trump's inauguration, Jimmy Bramblett, deputy chief for programs at the NRCS, said: "It has become clear one of the previous administration's priority is not consistent with that of the incoming administration. Namely, that priority is climate change. Please visit with your staff and make them aware of this shift in perspective within the executive branch." Bramblett added that "prudence" should be used when discussing greenhouse gases and said the agency's work on air quality regarding these gases could be discontinued. Other emails show the often agonized discussions between staff unsure of what is forbidden. On 16 February, a staffer named Tim Hafner write to Bramblett: "I would like to know correct terms I should use instead of climate changes and anything to do with carbon ... I want to ensure to incorporate correct terminology that the agency has approved to use." On 5 April, Suzanne Baker, a New York-based NRCS employee, emailed a query as to whether staff are "allowed to publish work from outside the USDA that use 'climate change'". A colleague advises that the issue be determined in a phone call. Some staff weren't enamored with the new regime, with one employee stating on an email on 5 July that "we would prefer to keep the language as is" and stressing the need to maintain the "scientific integrity of the work". In a statement, USDA said that on 23 January it had issued "interim operating procedures outlining procedures to ensure the new policy team has an opportunity to review policy-related statements, legislation, budgets and regulations prior to issuance". The statement added: "This guidance, similar to procedures issued by previous administrations, was misinterpreted by some to cover data and scientific publications. This was never the case and USDA interim procedures will allow complete, objective information for the new policy staff reviewing policy decisions." Kaveh Sadeghzadeh of the Natural Resources Conservation Service added that his organisation "has not received direction from USDA or the administration to modify its communications on climate change or any other topic". Trump has repeatedly questioned the veracity of climate change research, infamously suggesting that it is part of an elaborate Chinese hoax. The president has started the process of withdrawing the US from the Paris climate agreement, has instructed the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to scrap or amend various regulations aimed at cutting greenhouse gases, and has moved to open up more public land and waters to fossil fuel activity. The nomenclature of the federal government has also shifted as these new priorities have taken hold. Mentions of the dangers of climate change have been removed from the websites of the White House and the Department of the Interior, while the EPA scrapped its entire online climate section in April pending a review that will be "updating language to reflect the approach of new leadership"." hese records reveal Trump's active censorship of science in the name of his political agenda," said Meg Townsend, open government attorney at the Center for Biological Diversity." o think that federal agency staff who report about the air, water and soil that sustains the health of our nation must conform their reporting with the Trump administration's anti-science rhetoric is appalling and dangerous for America and the greater global community." The Center for Biological Diversity is currently suing several government agencies, including the EPA and state department, to force them to release information on the "censoring" of climate change verbiage. While some of the changes to government websites may have occurred anyway, the emails from within the USDA are the clearest indication yet that staff have been instructed to steer clear of acknowledging climate change or its myriad consequences. US agriculture is a major source of heat-trapping gases, with 15% of the country's emissions deriving from farming practices. A USDA plan to address the "far reaching" impacts of climate change is still online. However, Sam Clovis, Trump's nomination to be the USDA's chief scientist, has labeled climate research "junk science". Last week it was revealed that Clovis, who is not a scientist, once ran a blog where he called progressives "race traders and race 'traitors'" and likened Barack Obama to a "communist".	False
138	vox	left_bias	2019-11-06	So climate change is likely to remain a key campaign issue for Democrats in the coming elections.	And won.	But the test of these election promises will be in how they're implemented.	Yet in many key races, Democrats still out-raised their Republican opponents.	Young Virginia voters said climate change was a top-tier concern.		Virginia Democrats campaigned on their Green New Deal and fighting climate change. And won. Virginia's efforts to fight climate change got a big boost after Tuesday's election, with Democrats flipping both chambers of the state's General Assembly. As part of its pre-election platform, Virginia's Democratic party unanimously endorsed two major progressive environmental resolutions: They voted in favor of setting a target of net-zero carbon emissions for the state by 2050 and they endorsed the Green New Deal Virginia. Like the Green New Deal resolution introduced in the US Congress, Virginia's version aims to move the state to 100 percent renewable energy while pursuing social welfare programs like job retraining for workers who would lose their jobs in the transition. Climate change isn't a far-off issue for Virginians, so it's not surprising that some were thinking about it at the ballot box. Many are already starting to feel the effects of the melting ice and warming oceans that result from rising average temperatures. The Hampton Roads region, for example, is facing the highest rate of sea-level rise on the East Coast. Rising waters are worsening the impacts of tropical storms that strike the state and will cost Virginia cities billions of dollars in losses in the coming decades. That's why Tuesday's results are a big deal for Virginia voters who want the state to do more to limit climate change. The new Democratic legislative majority could also allow Gov. Ralph Northam to fulfill his long-thwarted ambition of bringing Virginia into the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI), a compact among nine East Coast states to cap and trade greenhouse gas emissions credits. Northam had failed to get the Republican-led legislature on board with his climate goals, but he signed an executive order in September mandating that Virginia generate 30 percent of its electricity from renewables by 2030 and generate all power from non-carbon-emitting sources by 2050. Joining RGGI would be a key way to finance this transition toward cleaner energy with revenue coming from auctioning off carbon credits. Virginia's Democratic Party also said that it would refuse contributions from energy providers like Dominion Energy and Appalachian Power that generate power from fossil fuels. It's part of a national campaign from environmental activists to push public officials to say no to money from the coal, oil, and natural gas industries. Yet in many key races, Democrats still out-raised their Republican opponents. But the test of these election promises will be in how they're implemented. Virginia gets 53 percent of its electricity from natural gas and 10 percent from coal, so it's a long uphill walk to zero emissions. Virginia is just the latest state where limiting climate change has proved to be a winning issueThe election results also show (yet again) that Democrats can campaign and win on aggressive action on climate change. And they illustrate that despite high-profile criticism from Republicans, the Green New Deal is proving to be popular with many voters, even in local elections. Ahead of the election, polls showed that more than 60 percent of Virginians wanted their government to do more about climate change. Young Virginia voters said climate change was a top-tier concern. Candidates like Joshua Cole, who won the election for Virginia's 28th House District, campaigned on environmental action, including upgrading infrastructure to make it more resilient and deploying clean energy. With Congress deadlocked and President Donald Trump pulling the United States out of the Paris climate agreement, Virginia's election also highlights how the biggest opportunities to curb greenhouse gases are occurring at the state level. States like Oregon, New Mexico, Colorado, and Nevada are already locking in more stringent limits on greenhouse gases and setting higher targets for deploying clean energy. And almost every Democrat running for the White House in 2020 wants to ramp up action on climate change should any of them take office. So climate change is likely to remain a key campaign issue for Democrats in the coming elections.	False
594	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-04-03	The country reaffirmed its commitment to its Paris commitments after U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order rolling back global warming regulations in late March."	Why the push abroad?	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	s a responsible developing country, China's plan, determination and policy to tackle climate change is resolute," Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang told the Associated Press.	China 'Greens' Its Economy By Funding Massive Coal Projects In Pakistan China is helping Pakistan build up its energy sector, including a $3.5 billion joint venture to extract 1.3 gigawatts worth of coal in the Thar desert.		China 'Greens' Its Economy By Funding Massive Coal Projects In Pakistan China is helping Pakistan build up its energy sector, including a $3.5 billion joint venture to extract 1.3 gigawatts worth of coal in the Thar desert. Pakistan plans to use Thar brown coal to bring electricity to the millions of people living in energy poverty or suffering through daily blackouts. The country could get 24 percent of its electricity from coal by 2020 with the help of China. It's one of many coal projects China is backing abroad, while it cuts coal mining and power generation at home to fight pollution. China also promised to "peak" greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 as part of the Paris climate agreement. China's energy ministry canceled more than 100 coal-fired power plants that were being planned or being built in January. The country reaffirmed its commitment to its Paris commitments after U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order rolling back global warming regulations in late March." s a responsible developing country, China's plan, determination and policy to tackle climate change is resolute," Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang told the Associated Press. China's coal use fell nearly 5 percent last year, but the country still gets 62 percent of its electricity from coal-fired power plants. The country's cut in domestic coal use comes as they fund coal projects abroad, including the Engro mine in the Thar desert. Another Chinese joint venture plans to build another coal project near the Engro mine in June. Another block of coal will begin production for electricity generation by 2019, reports the Salt Law Tribune. China has also backed coal-fired power plants in Southeast Asian countries, including Vietnam. China is involved in financing or building at least 79 coal-fired power projects around the world. The total generating capacity of those projects is 52 gigawatts. Why the push abroad? It provides Chinese firms and investors with opportunities to make money off coal projects at a time when that's less politically popular in China. Coal workers also travel to these projects, keeping them from losing their jobs. The Engro mine, for example, has 350 Chinese workers, and the return on equity for Chinese investors is about 30 percent, according to the Salt Lake Tribune. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	False
770	BBC	left_center_bias	2017-05-12	We are appreciative that each of you has an important point of view, and you should know that we are taking the time to understand your concerns," he said."	But the text did not recommit its members to meet the pledges made.	Although the logic of the statement insists that human activity is causing climate change, the word "human" is not actually present.	But a couple of things are missing.	The acceptance of the urgent need to reduce greenhouse gases (such as methane and carbon dioxide) and pollutants (like black carbon and aerosols) appears significant.		Arctic summit: Trump to make 'right decision for the US' on climate The US will consider its interests first as it reviews its climate change policy, the secretary of state says. Rex Tillerson told a meeting of the eight Arctic nations in Alaska that the US would not rush to make a decision and would consider their views. President Donald Trump has expressed doubts over the human role in climate change and has said he may pull the US out of the Paris Accord to fight it. Meanwhile, other Arctic countries have called for a cut on greenhouse gases. They signed an agreement which stated there was a need for urgent global action. Climate change was the biggest issue at the biennial meeting of the Arctic Council in Fairbanks, which was overshadowed by the uncertainties over Mr Trump's policy. Mr Tillerson, the former chief executive of Exxon Mobil, told the meeting that the administration was reviewing how it would approach climate change." We are appreciative that each of you has an important point of view, and you should know that we are taking the time to understand your concerns," he said." We're not going to rush to make a decision. We're going to work to make the right decision for the United States." Mr Trump is to decide whether the US will leave or reduce its commitments to the Paris agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which was negotiated by around 200 nations and signed in 2015. An announcement is expected after a trip to Europe later this month. The joint agreement by the Arctic Council mentioned the Paris accord only in a passing reference, which noted the deal's entry into force and implementation. But the text did not recommit its members to meet the pledges made. Some climate scientists here in Alaska say they are pleasantly surprised by the relatively tough language on climate change adopted by all eight Arctic Council nations including the United States. The thrust of the text, argues Prof John Walsh, chief scientist at the University of Alaska's International Arctic Research Center, actually echoes the approach of the Obama administration. The acceptance of the urgent need to reduce greenhouse gases (such as methane and carbon dioxide) and pollutants (like black carbon and aerosols) appears significant. But a couple of things are missing. Although the logic of the statement insists that human activity is causing climate change, the word "human" is not actually present. Nor is there a commitment to implement the landmark Paris accord, an omission which is causing alarm among environmentalists. Not only that, but many of the Trump administration's early policy decisions prioritised economic growth over environmental protection, and Mr Tillerson continues to insist that American climate policy remains under review. So, in short, it is far too early to conclude that the White House has suddenly been persuaded by mainstream scientific opinion on global warming - and with US politics in astonishing flux, the Fairbanks Declaration may be no more than a holding statement.	False
404	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-04-02	Undoing the rule threatens to upend that uniformity.	ooperative federalism doesn't mean that one state can dictate standards for the rest of the country," Pruitt said.	his is all just another case of this administration wanting to make good on their political rhetoric and in this case not even wanting to make good for our own automakers," McCarthy, now the director of Harvard University's Center for Health and the Global Environment, told HuffPost."	Carol Browner, who served as the agency's chief from 1993 to 2001, said Pruitt was wrong to cast California as wielding outsize influence over the regulations.	The deal guaranteed consistent mileage and emissions rules nationwide, allowing automakers to save money by manufacturing vehicles to one standard.		EPA To Gut The Only Major Federal Rule To Cut Climate Pollution From Vehicles The federal rule required vehicles to average 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025, nearly double today's standard. The new standard provided significant environmental and financial benefits if fully implemented. Under those rules, oil consumption would fall by 12 billion barrels, tailpipe emissions would halve and fuel efficiency would nearly double, saving consumers $3,200 to $5,700 in gasoline costs over a vehicle's lifetime. The regulation would have prevented 6 billion metric tons of planet-warming gases ― equivalent to a year's worth of pollution from 150 power plants ― from ever entering the atmosphere. In its 38-page finding, the EPA cited lower gas prices and changes to "consumer acceptance of advanced technology vehicles" as reasons the original determinations "no longer represent realistic assumptions." The agency also said it planned to reconsider how climate change factored in to regulation, noting that "the social cost of carbon" and "energy security valuation ... should also be updated to be consistent with the literature and empirical evidence." The memo made no mention of climate change. Automakers agreed to the rule in 2012 as part of the first major overhaul of fuel efficiency standards since the 1970s. But the policy set an April 2018 deadline to review the standards and tweak them if they proved too expensive or impossible to meet. In January 2017, the Obama administration attempted to lock the regulation in place by issuing a positive assessment of the costs and feasibility of the regulations. Despite overwhelmingly supporting the agreement seven years ago, carmakers began lobbying then-President-elect Donald Trump to reverse the Obama ruling almost immediately after the 2016 election. Automakers missed their emissions target for the first time last year, even though they achieved record fuel economy, in part because the companies boosted production of gas-guzzling SUVs. The decision to rewrite the rule puts the EPA at loggerheads with California regulators, who agreed in 2011 as part of the rule to align their tailpipe emissions standards with the national levels. The deal guaranteed consistent mileage and emissions rules nationwide, allowing automakers to save money by manufacturing vehicles to one standard. Undoing the rule threatens to upend that uniformity. Under the Clean Air Act, California is allowed to set vehicle emissions standards higher than the rest of the country, and with nearly 35.4 million registered vehicles, the state commands powerful influence over the American auto market. A dozen other states, including New York, Massachusetts and Pennsylvania, have historically followed California's lead." ooperative federalism doesn't mean that one state can dictate standards for the rest of the country," Pruitt said. "It is in America's best interest to have a national standard, and we look forward to partnering with all states, including California, as we work to finalize that standard." The decision prompted sharp criticism from former EPA administrators. Carol Browner, who served as the agency's chief from 1993 to 2001, said Pruitt was wrong to cast California as wielding outsize influence over the regulations. She noted that the Golden State compromised on a number of rules, including a zero emissions vehicle program." his is all just another case of this administration wanting to make good on their political rhetoric and in this case not even wanting to make good for our own automakers," McCarthy, now the director of Harvard University's Center for Health and the Global Environment, told HuffPost." e support increasing clean car standards through 2025 and are not asking for a rollback," they wrote in a blog post on Medium. "We want one set of standards nationally, along with additional flexibility to help us provide more affordable options for our customers." The EPA never implemented the Clean Power Plan, the signature Obama-era rule to reduce emissions from the utility sector. But the law is still on the books, and the EPA has yet to propose a replacement that meets the legal requirements set by a 2007 Supreme Court ruling that found the agency is obliged to regulate any type of air pollution that "may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare," including greenhouse gases. The EPA and the Department of the Interior moved to eliminate Obama-era rules restricting methane emissions from gas drilling sites. But, last July, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled against the EPA's plan to suspend the rule. In February, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California ruled that the Interior Department's plan to delay methane regulations was "untethered to evidence."	False
384	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-11-30	org.	EXCLUSIVE: Docs Suggest A Personal Vendetta Between Two Lawyers Might Be Fueling Climate Crusade Two of the attorneys representing various cities in climate litigation against oil companies have a history of suing and counter-suing each other over personal squabbles, according to documents obtained by The Daily Caller News Foundation.	The intrigue comes amid growing bad blood between the two sides.	Local governments suing fossil fuel interests argue state nuisance and trespassing laws, which have sometimes been applied to pollution, also apply to global warming.	Sher, who was with Sher Leff at the time, alleged Pawa's group, Pawa Law Group, failed to distribute money from a settlement in the case.		EXCLUSIVE: Docs Suggest A Personal Vendetta Between Two Lawyers Might Be Fueling Climate Crusade Two of the attorneys representing various cities in climate litigation against oil companies have a history of suing and counter-suing each other over personal squabbles, according to documents obtained by The Daily Caller News Foundation. Environmental attorneys Vic Sher and Matt Pawa got into a multi-million-dollar legal dispute in 2014 stemming from a lawsuit they both worked on against ExxonMobil. Sher, who was with Sher Leff at the time, alleged Pawa's group, Pawa Law Group, failed to distribute money from a settlement in the case. Pawa, in turn, argued in a lawsuit that Sher was the one cheating him out of millions of dollars. Sher, who is now with Sher Edling, eventually paid Pawa about $6 million for the retributions, court documents show. The disagreement stems from a lawsuit New Hampshire filed in 2013 alleging Exxon negligently contaminated the state's water ways with 2 billion gallons of MTBE, a gas additive experts believe poisons drinking water. The intrigue comes amid growing bad blood between the two sides. The state initially sued 26 oil companies in 2003 over the contamination. New Hampshire previously collected over $130 million for MTBE cleanup from the other defendants. The jury eventually awarded the state damages of $816 million. Exxon was made to pay roughly 29 percent of market share, which equaled roughly $236,372,664 at the time of the lawsuit. New Hampshire's Supreme Court upheld the decision in 2015 after Exxon appealed the ruling to the top court.A dispute arose between Pawa and Sher in 2012 relating to the division of attorneys' fees between them under a contract with New Hampshire, which retained both to represent the state in the Exxon contamination case. A panel eventually awarded Pawa nearly $6 million for breaching the agreement. Sher Leff refused to comply with the final award, including payment of the amounts awarded to Pawa's law firm, even while Sher Leff pocketed more than $27 million in attorneys' fees from the Exxon case. Sher countersued in 2014, arguing Pawa entered into a secondary oral agreement that the legal fees associated with the case would be delivered proportionally. Sher's case was dismissed. Neither Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP, a California-based law firm that now employs Pawa, nor Sher Edling responded to TheDCNF's request for comment about how the nearly five-year-old lawsuit is affecting their current legal pursuits of Exxon. Both law firms — Sher Edling and Hagens Berman — are barnstorming the country, convincing cities to sue energy companies for allegedly contributing to damage caused by climate change. The rivalry between the two attorneys heated up Nov. 26 after San Francisco and Oakland fired Hagens Berman and hired Sher Edling to represent the cities as they appeal a court's decision to dismiss their lawsuits against Exxon. Hagens Berman is handling King County, Washington's lawsuit against five major oil companies. The California-based firm was also behind a now-dismissed climate lawsuit brought by New York City. (RELATED: Anti-Exxon Attorneys Suffer Setback Amid Rash Of Legal Defeats)Hagens Berman's fee would have been 23.5 percent of any winnings from its cases with San Francisco and Oakland. Hagens Berman stood to earn possibly billions of dollars in contingency fees depending on the total winnings, had San Francisco, Oakland or New York City won their global warming suits. Sher Edling, for its part, is handling climate lawsuits for six California cities and counties. Local governments suing fossil fuel interests argue state nuisance and trespassing laws, which have sometimes been applied to pollution, also apply to global warming. They also accuse energy companies of trying to downplay the harms their products allegedly cause. Hagens Berman and Sher Edling's drama comes after New York filed a lawsuit in October against Exxon for allegedly downplaying for decades the risk the company's oil products pose on the climate. The lawsuit follows over three years of investigation first orchestrated by former Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who resigned in April over abuse allegations from former romantic partners. The probe took many twists and turns and seemed to come to a halt shortly after his resignation. (RELATED: SEC Investigators Decide Not To Punish Exxon For Alleged Climate Heresy)Exxon engaged in a "longstanding fraudulent scheme" to deceive investors, analysts and underwriters "concerning the company's management of the risks posed to its business by climate change regulation," the lawsuit notes. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
9	foxnews	right_bias	2019-04-03	Do we really believe that if we outlaw cars, cows, planes and buildings that the rest of the world will follow?"	Traditionally, Republicans have been more skeptical about man's influence on the climate.	In an indication of likely conservative opposition to Gaetz's plan, advocacy group FreedomWorks issued a statement calling it a "sad example of Republicans thinking they're conservatives by being slightly to the right of far left."	"Of course not, they will laugh at us."	EVIL'His plan, which he is putting forward in a House resolution, involves a number of planks including revisiting global trade and intellectual property policies to create "an international marketplace fair to American innovators."		GOP Rep. Matt Gaetz unveils 'Green Real Deal,' as conservative answer to AOC pet project Republican Rep. Matt Gaetz unveiled the "Green Real Deal" on Wednesday as a free-market counterproposal to the Green New Deal being pushed by Democrats to combat climate change." he question for America is pretty simple: either we want a bunch of bureaucrats in Washington telling us what we can't do, or we empower American innovators to unlock things that we can do," the Florida congressman said at a press conference in front of the Capitol building. AOC MOCKS CRITICS OF GREEN NEW DEAL'S ESTIMATED $93 TRILLION PRICE TAG: 'THEY SOUND LIKE DR. EVIL'His plan, which he is putting forward in a House resolution, involves a number of planks including revisiting global trade and intellectual property policies to create "an international marketplace fair to American innovators." Gaetz's plan also aims to modernize the electric grid, which he says currently "functions as a wet blanket over American innovation." Gaetz claims that upgrading the grid will create an "entire class of energy entrepreneurs across the country." He also wants to "unlock federal lands" from current regulations, saying they can be "an open canvas" for renewable energy research, testing and evaluation. The plan comes in response to the Green New Deal, a once-fringe policy that seeks to overhaul the nation's economy and energy use to combat climate change and combat income inequality. But this year it has emerged in the Democratic mainstream, with a resolution introduced in the House and support from most major 2020 Democratic presidential candidates. However, a test vote on the proposal recently failed in the Senate with no senator voting to begin debate on the legislation. The proposal includes a host of costly and controversial big-government programs -- including a push for net-zero greenhouse gas emissions, universal health care and job guarantee programs. In the press conference, Gaetz made references to FAQs released by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's, D-N.Y., office that said the deal aims to "upgrade or replace every building" for energy efficiency and render air travel unnecessary, while joking about getting rid of "farting cows." Do we really believe that if we outlaw cars, cows, planes and buildings that the rest of the world will follow?" he said. "Of course not, they will laugh at us." While Gaetz's proposal consists of free-market and small-government ideas of the kind Republicans have long embraced, the plan is a notable shift for the party toward tackling climate change in some fashion. Traditionally, Republicans have been more skeptical about man's influence on the climate. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Andrew Wheeler was asked in January at his confirmation hearing if he believed warnings from scientists about the threats of climate change."  would not call it the greatest crisis, no" he said. In an indication of likely conservative opposition to Gaetz's plan, advocacy group FreedomWorks issued a statement calling it a "sad example of Republicans thinking they're conservatives by being slightly to the right of far left." What's more, it is presented as a collection of bold, new ideas yet most of them are policies and programs that exist and aren't working. This is perhaps the only thing 'real' about the 'Green Real Deal,'" the statement said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPGaetz said at the press conference that he doesn't think the EPA has done a good job of combating climate change and said he wants to shift the debate among Republicans -- from focusing on the existence of climate change, to how to combat it."I didn't come to Congress to argue with a thermometer and I think that more of my colleagues need to realize that the science of global warming is irrefutable," he said.	False
191	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-08-19	"Children are powerful drivers of change because they go home and talk to their parents about it," says Zana Kontamanoli.	But we've stuck to our guns."	Research shows that when recycling is separated, people are less likely to just chuck all their waste in and contaminate it," says Kontamanoli.	You are really exposed to the reality of the situation when you live by the sea," says campaigner Zana Kontamanoli.	"Even when we explain we have a water filter, many customers don't like it.		Paros - the Greek paradise island that wants to ditch plastic The sun dips towards the sea on Xifara beach as Stella Cervello walks along, picking up handfuls of plastic waste. There are shredded plastic bags, a glowstick from a rave on nearby Mykonos and even a food carton from Turkey." Look, you can see all the microplastics," she says, pointing at a mass of coloured dots bobbing on the waves. Like many islands in Greece's Cycladic region, waste production on the island of Paros explodes in summer when over 400,000 tourists join a local population of just 13,000. Paros is now at the centre of a drive to turn itself into the world's first island that is truly free of plastic waste. It looks like quite a challenge. In high season, the white-and-blue painted cafes that line the picturesque streets get through 1,000 plastic takeaway cups a day. Thousands of plastic bottles of water are shipped in daily, because many believe the tap water is undrinkable, although the water company insists that is wrong." You are really exposed to the reality of the situation when you live by the sea," says campaigner Zana Kontamanoli. The Greek waste management system suffered heavy cuts during the country's financial crisis, meaning recycling is often not separated and many landfill sites are not up to EU standards.A shocking 95% of waste in the Mediterranean is plastic. But within three years this may change. Paros residents Stella Cervello and Zana Kontamanoli are behind the Clean Blue Paros initiative that involves the local municipality as well as several NGOs."I was really shocked when I arrived. I could not believe how many plastic cups were flying around by the beach," says Ms Cervello, who began trying to make the island more sustainable when she moved here from France in 2016. And while she was starting up a Facebook group and talking to businesses about possible alternatives to plastic, Jo Royle from the charity Common Seas was trying to identify a Mediterranean island that could become a model for a future free of plastic waste." Islands provide a microcosm of a system that allows us to clearly see material flows," says Ms Royle. "We've got one port where everything comes in and goes off so we can really evaluate whether the systems we're piloting work." Paros was chosen because its changes in population give it complexity and because she found out when she visited the island that people were already working on the issue. Other islands such as the Seychelles archipelago have banned single-use plastics, but this is the first time an entirely new approach is being taken to make an island completely free of plastic waste. Huge signs now greet tourists at the airport to tell them about the Paros initiative. "It's what the island needs," says Ms Cervello. The team's first task was to convince as many local businesses as possible to drop "pointless plastics" such as straws and bottled water. "Out of 70 businesses we've spoken to, 50 have signed up," says Zana Kontamanoli. Fourteen businesses are piloting the separate collection of plastic cups and bottles which have a higher value recycle rate. The plastic will then be recycled on the mainland into something that can return to the island, such as benches." Research shows that when recycling is separated, people are less likely to just chuck all their waste in and contaminate it," says Kontamanoli. However, there are still many obstacles facing the team. Most bins on the island do not close, so the strong Aegean winds blow waste into the sea. And while many residents are enthusiastic about the project, there are still some that need convincing." Not serving bottled water has harmed us," admits Andy Kirk, owner of Nemobar, the first business to sign up to the scheme. "Even when we explain we have a water filter, many customers don't like it. But we've stuck to our guns." Another sticking point has been convincing bakeries and pharmacies to stop using plastic bags. The team has managed to collect thousands of used hotel bed sheets, which would usually be sent to landfill, and are making them into tote bags." In our audit we found that on some parts of the island 60% of waste was recyclable, so there needs to be more education," says Kontamanoli. The team is focusing its education efforts on the island's 2,500 schoolchildren. Most drink one small bottle of water a day each, so they are being given refillable bottles while water filters are being installed at schools. "Children are powerful drivers of change because they go home and talk to their parents about it," says Zana Kontamanoli. Although they are only six months in, the team are optimistic that big changes can be made as soon as the tourist season is over and residents have more time on their hands to overhaul how they do things." Plastic pollution is very complex and there's not one solution," says Jo Royle. "But we hope if these systems work they can be applied elsewhere too."	False
656	TheBlaze	right_bias	2017-04-09	Campbell said the evidence shows "a fundamental shift in the Earth's plants" and that "global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race."	He says despite the researchers' findings, which clearly show global warming helps plants—and thus also helping humans and animals—global warming has many negative effects, too, such as causing "climate change, which will increase flooding of coastal cities, extreme weather and ocean acidification."	The study also offered no solutions for reducing greenhouse-gas emissions without causing severe economic and social problems for billions of people.	New global warming study is terrible news for alarmists, good news for plants, animals and people A new study published in the highly influential journal Nature suggests rising global temperatures during the 19th and 20th centuries may be linked to greater plant photosynthesis.	The study did, however, show increased carbon-dioxide levels have, generally, helped plants and crops.		New global warming study is terrible news for alarmists, good news for plants, animals and people A new study published in the highly influential journal Nature suggests rising global temperatures during the 19th and 20th centuries may be linked to greater plant photosynthesis. The study, conducted by researchers at the University of California at Merced, estimated based on its models "the sum of all plant photosynthesis on Earth grew by 30 percent over the 200-year record captured," according to an article published on the UC Merced website. Photosynthesis is the process of converting carbon dioxide into carbohydrates, which power plants, using sunlight. According to the UC Merced article, "The research did not identify the cause of the increased photosynthesis, but computer models have shown several processes that could, together, create such a large change in global plant growth." The leading candidates are rising atmospheric CO2 levels, a result of emissions from human activities; longer growing seasons, a result of climate change caused by CO2 emissions; and nitrogen pollution, another result of fossil fuel combustion and agriculture," the article also claims. In other words, more carbon dioxide, which is being produced by humans at record levels, has improved plant growth, which in turn improves food production for humans and animals. Campbell said the evidence shows "a fundamental shift in the Earth's plants" and that "global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race." However, don't too excited, Campbell warns. He says despite the researchers' findings, which clearly show global warming helps plants—and thus also helping humans and animals—global warming has many negative effects, too, such as causing "climate change, which will increase flooding of coastal cities, extreme weather and ocean acidification." The researchers' study in Nature provided no proof of the claim global warming is caused by humans or that global warming will cause the severe problems Campbell said it will in the quotes provided by the UC Merced article. The study also offered no solutions for reducing greenhouse-gas emissions without causing severe economic and social problems for billions of people. The study did, however, show increased carbon-dioxide levels have, generally, helped plants and crops.	False
332	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-07-31	"Whatever sales or events occurred in California were causally insignificant in the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming."	His decision follows a ruling the judge made in June dismissing both cases on the grounds that Congress, not the court system, is responsible for addressing the emission of greenhouse gasses."	t is manifest that global warming would have continued in the absence of all California-related activities of defendants," Alsup wrote in his July 27 decision.	"Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants' alleged California activities to plaintiffs' harm."	Federal Judge Puts The Final Nail In The Coffin Of California's Climate Crusade A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit Friday targeting ExxonMobil on the basis that two California cities waging a legal battle could not prove the energy company was responsible for climate change in the state.		Federal Judge Puts The Final Nail In The Coffin Of California's Climate Crusade A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit Friday targeting ExxonMobil on the basis that two California cities waging a legal battle could not prove the energy company was responsible for climate change in the state. District Judge William Alsup wrote that San Francisco and Oakland failed to prove that global warming would be substantially curtailed if the oil company did not operate inside California. His decision follows a ruling the judge made in June dismissing both cases on the grounds that Congress, not the court system, is responsible for addressing the emission of greenhouse gasses." t is manifest that global warming would have continued in the absence of all California-related activities of defendants," Alsup wrote in his July 27 decision. "Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants' alleged California activities to plaintiffs' harm." Cities in Colorado, Rhode Island, and New York have also filed similar lawsuits against energy producers over the past year. They argue that Exxon and others should pony-up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change. Many of the lawsuits have already been nixed. Alsup also suggested that climate change would be no better or worse even if Exxon were not operating in California." rom all that appears in the amended complaints, however, this worldwide chain of events (Exxon's oil production) does not depend on a particular defendant's contacts with California," he said. "Whatever sales or events occurred in California were causally insignificant in the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming." Trial lawyers with Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled climate lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings, called a contingency fee. (RELATED: Trial Lawyers Handling Cities' Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions)Hagens Berman stood to earn billions of dollars in contingency fees depending on the total winnings, from a favorable judgement against oil companies. The three cities claimed billions of dollars-worth of damage from global warming induced by fossil fuels.	False
456	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-10-25	Still, the policy seems far off at best.	3.	4 priority, and voters of color in that age range ranked it No.	Climate scientists tend to agree.	In a Gallup poll last month, just 1 percent of Americans ― including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats ― chose "environment/pollution" as the country's most important problem from a list of dozens of issues.		Democrats Increasingly Support The Idea Of A Green Jobs Plan: Poll The survey, commissioned by the progressive think tank Data for Progress and conducted online from Oct. 11-15, found even stronger support among young voters and people of color. Voters aged 18-29 ranked green jobs as their No. 4 priority, and voters of color in that age range ranked it No. 3. In a Gallup poll last month, just 1 percent of Americans ― including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats ― chose "environment/pollution" as the country's most important problem from a list of dozens of issues. In a separate May 2017 Gallup survey, just 2 percent of Americans listed "create more 'green' jobs" as the best policy to increase employment in the United States, compared to 19 percent who listed "keep manufacturing jobs here/Stop sending overseas." The findings come as the Trump administration is on the cusp of fully rolling back two of the most critical federal rules to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Next year, the White House is planning a make a new push to build more oil and gas pipelines, Larry Kudlow, the president's top economic adviser, said at an event this month. Already, at least six of the Democratic senators expected to run for president in 2020 are backing legislation to guarantee a job to every American worker who wants one. It's an idea roughly 46 percent of Americans support, according to an April survey by Rasmussen Reports. Polling Data for Progress released in September pegged the number slightly higher, at 55 percent of eligible U.S. voters, but found that those opposed decreased from 23 percent to 18 percent when the guaranteed jobs are green. Even among Trump voters, the September survey found, support for guaranteed jobs is stronger when the jobs are green, with 35 percent in support and 36 percent opposed. Without an environmental focus, Trump voters in support of guaranteed jobs dropped to 30 percent, with 45 percent opposed. Even in deep-red counties in fossil fuel-producing states, support for requiring utilities to produce 20 percent of electricity from renewables averages well above 50 percent, according to 2018 survey data from the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication. Support for providing tax rebates for energy-efficient vehicles and solar panels soars well above 75 percent in most of those same counties. Adopting a green jobs plan could also help Democrats ease the tension between the party's labor and climate hawks. In August, the Democratic National Committee backtracked on a two-month-old ban on fossil fuel donations. The move was a cave to unions that overwhelmingly support pipeline projects that pay much better than renewable energy jobs, which tend not to use organized labor. Still, the policy seems far off at best. It's difficult to imagine such a bill passing a Republican-dominated Congress, much less gaining Trump's signature. Democratic leadership has indicated it has no plans to push a major climate bill even if the party takes the House of Representatives in next month's election. Yet there's a small contingent of left-wing candidates ― including Wisconsin congressional candidate Randy Bryce and Kevin de León, the California lawmaker challenging Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein ― who are running on a so-called "Green New Deal," a reference to the Great Depression-era spending programs that established many of the nation's infrastructure landmarks. Ocasio-Cortez, the democratic socialist expected to become the next U.S. representative for New York's 14th Congressional District, likened climate change to the "existential threat" posed by "Nazi Germany and the Axis." The last time we had a really major existential threat to this country was around World War II," Ocasio-Cortez said at a campaign event. "And so we've been here before and we have a blueprint of doing this before." Climate scientists tend to agree. In July, Penn State University climatologist Michael Mann called Ocasio-Cortez's proposal for trillions in federal spending on a Green New Deal to be "just the sort of audacious and bold thinking we will need if we are going to avert a climate crisis." Just three weeks ago, a sobering United Nations report warned that world governments have just 12 years to halve emissions in order to avert cataclysmic climate change. And even then, the researchers found that technologies to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere will be required to keep warming within 2.3 degrees Fahrenheit, beyond which scientists say many densely populated places will become uninhabitable. Progress to mitigate climate change has been alarmingly limited. Despite the rapid construction of renewable energy infrastructure, the United States, the world's largest per-capita emitter, is aggressively bolstering its fossil fuel production. Last year, Trump announced the U.S. would withdraw from the Paris climate agreement, which every recognized country on Earth has signed. Brazil, the vast rainforests of which are critical to absorbing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, is poised to elect a president who vowed to ramp up deforestation and withdraw from the historic 2015 accord as well. China, the world's top national emitter, is continuing to build new coal plants despite pledging to cancel the facilities.	False
845	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-05-19	They are meant primarily not to inform but to exhort, and to put pressure on policy makers to coerce human behavior change in accordance with climate change theory."	Event attribution—the ability to link a given phenomenon to manmade global warming—is exceedingly speculative at best and completely unreliable at worst, even according to true believers.	Nature Magazine felt compelled to conclude (with unusual modesty) that "better models are needed before exceptional events can be reliably linked to global warming."	At a meeting of climate scientists at Oxford in 2012, one participant argued that, given the insufficient observational data and the coarse and mathematically imperfect climate models used to generate attribution claims, they are "unjustifiably speculative, basically unverifiable and better not made at all."	Of course, the purpose of studies such as these, which remarkably continue to receive funding, is ultimately practical rather than speculative.		Climate Alarmists: Global Warming 'Wreaking Worldwide Havoc' on Migratory Songbirds Warmer temperatures are threatening American songbirds with dwindling numbers due to an inability to successfully breed, a new study from Scientific Reports alleges.A team of researchers studied migratory patterns of songbirds between 2001 and 2012 and claimed that of the 48 North American songbird species that migrate north, nine of these — or almost 20 percent — "didn't reach the grounds by the deadline critical for mating and breeding the next generation of birds," wrote Karla Lant in her summary of the reportPlants in eastern North America are "greening up" sooner than normal because of global warming, the report contends, while plants in the western part of the continent are somehow undergoing the process later. This means that birds such as the Townsend's warbler and the rose-breasted grosbeak "are arriving either too soon and being met with frigid temperatures or too late and missing out on the insect boom that coincides with the new plant growth," Lant stated. Either way, the birds have a much lower chance of surviving and reproducing, the report alleges, so the nine species identified are consequently in danger of dwindling numbers." s climate at the breeding grounds changes, birds may be unable to adjust wintering ground departure times and transit speeds sufficiently to match their arrival with altered breeding resource phenology, particularly leaf growth and the closely associated emergence of herbivorous insects," the report warns. If attributing changes in migratory patterns of songbirds to "global warming" after a mere 12 years of observation strikes readers as highly suspicious, that's probably because it is. Event attribution—the ability to link a given phenomenon to manmade global warming—is exceedingly speculative at best and completely unreliable at worst, even according to true believers. At a meeting of climate scientists at Oxford in 2012, one participant argued that, given the insufficient observational data and the coarse and mathematically imperfect climate models used to generate attribution claims, they are "unjustifiably speculative, basically unverifiable and better not made at all." Nature Magazine felt compelled to conclude (with unusual modesty) that "better models are needed before exceptional events can be reliably linked to global warming." Of course, the purpose of studies such as these, which remarkably continue to receive funding, is ultimately practical rather than speculative. They are meant primarily not to inform but to exhort, and to put pressure on policy makers to coerce human behavior change in accordance with climate change theory." s for the fate of these migratory birds, that really depends on how far we're willing to go to end manmade climate change," Lant's article predictably concludes." limate change is projected to drive hundreds of bird species to extinction and greatly reduce the ranges of others," the report prophecies, "and is already impacting species richness and composition."	False
371	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-11-27	The report is not without its controversies.	org.	We think that this is the most extreme version and it's not based on facts," she said.	NCA's dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes from a 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors.	'Not Based On Facts': Sarah Sanders Pushes Back Against New Climate Report White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders dismissed a major White House climate change report that some have used to criticize President Donald Trump's position on global warming.		'Not Based On Facts': Sarah Sanders Pushes Back Against New Climate Report White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders dismissed a major White House climate change report that some have used to criticize President Donald Trump's position on global warming. The report is "not based on facts," Sanders told reporters during a press conference Tuesday. She also argued that climate modeling of the kind researchers used in the National Climate Assessment report "is never exact." We think that this is the most extreme version and it's not based on facts," she said. "It's not data driven. We'd like to see something that is more data driven. It's based on modeling, which is extremely hard to do when you're talking about the climate." The NCA report came from a team of 13 federal agencies and was cobbled together with the help of 300 scientists. They used a Representative Concentration Pathway adopted by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's (IPCC) fifth Assessment Report (AR5) to make their conclusions. Continued use of coal and other fossil fuels will eliminate 10 percent of the GDP by 2100, according to the report. The country will also be 3 to 12 degrees hotter depending on the level of greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere, the report warns. It also suggests wildfires and hurricanes will increase as a result if the risk is left unchecked. The report is not without its controversies. One climate expert argues researchers used an unreliable climate model. University of Colorado Prof. Roger Pielke Jr., for instance, criticized the researchers in a series of tweets Saturday for basing their modeling on a data that are likely to change dramatically over the course of the next 80 years. He says the NCA's second volume relies on the RCP8.5, one of the four possible pathways in the trajectory. (RELATED: A Top-Line Claim In The Newest US Climate Report Relies On Research Tied To Major Democratic Donors)This particular pathway is slowly being phased out of the IPCC's modeling because scientists believe the model likely overestimates future supply of fossil fuels. Researchers used the most extreme example possible to sell the narrative that wildfires will get worse, Pielke noted. He has criticized the media's handling of similar reports. NCA's dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes from a 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors. The study was also funded by other organizations, including the National Science Foundation, the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
758	USA Today	left_center_bias	2017-08-31	I could easily imagine all that stuff would be kind of viewed as frivolous and go away because it's not core statement message stuff."	"Loss of program funding would reverse this trend."	Site owners are ultimately liable for cleanup costs, but a taxpayer-funded trust fund is in place when sites must be addressed quickly, are abandoned or when owners don't have the resources.	The cost of cleaning up a site depends on a variety of factors, including the extent of contamination and state cleanup standards.	t some point, such a deep cut makes any agency effectively non-responsive," Thomas said.		Trump budget cut could slow cleanup of 70,000 fuel leaks that threaten groundwater WASHINGTON — Gasoline, oil and other contaminants that threaten groundwater are seeping from more than 70,000 underground tanks around the country, but the federal aid that has helped address the problem could soon start drying up. The Trump administration is proposing to slash funding for the Leaking Underground Storage Tank program by nearly half next year — from nearly $92 million this year to about $47 million in 2018. The recommended cut in the LUST program is part of the president's proposal to reduce the Environmental Protection Agency budget by 31% next year. Funding for LUST is a drop in the EPA's $8.2 billion budget. But state officials, environmental activists and public health advocates warn that the size of the cut carries great risk considering groundwater is the source of drinking water for nearly half of all Americans. They say such a reduction would hamper monitoring, prevention, enforcement and cleanup of leaks as well as the important role EPA plays in providing technical assistance to state regulators and businesses, many of them gas stations, who have aging tanks and piping under their sites. In a letter earlier this year to congressional leaders, the head of the trade organization representing state solid waste agencies said the cut would impede the long-term progress states have made on inspection and cleanup. The program "has made great strides in increasing the number of compliant tanks in the last 25 years, which has resulted in fewer releases," wrote Dania Rodriguez, executive director of the Association of State and Territorial Solid Waste Management Officials. "Loss of program funding would reverse this trend." The Trump administration announced the proposed cut in May, two months after the Department of Veterans Affairs officially recognized the harm contaminated water — some of it linked to underground fuel tanks — inflicted on hundreds of thousands of marines stationed at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina from 1953 through 1987. Under the VA program announced in March, those who served at least 30 days in Lejeune during that period are eligible for treatment of eight diseases, including several cancers and Parkinson's Disease. There are 558,451 active tanks located in about 201,000 sites nationwide, according to the EPA's most recent tally. Most are service stations, but they also include any operation where fuel is stored underground such as government fleet garages, large retail operations like Costco stores that sell gas, and institutions like hospitals or universities that store fuel to power emergency generators." cross the country, thousands of underground storage tanks and accompanying pipes — many of them made from older, corroding steel — hold and carry a variety of fuels and chemicals," the Environmental Defense Fund wrote in a recent report. "When tanks leak harmful chemicals such as oil, gas, benzene and toluene into soil and ground water, drinking water and soil are fouled, community health is jeopardized, and economic development is crippled." The number of tanks with confirmed releases hit a high in 1995 with nearly 172,000. But the backlog of sites needing to be cleaned up has been declining since 2000, according to EPA records. As of March 31, EPA reported 70,094 tanks with confirmed leaks. Some of these are not actively leaking, but have residual contamination that needs to be cleaned up. Superfund cuts would lead to delays in toxic cleanups, experts warnFlorida leads the list of states reporting the most leaking tanks with 10,421, followed by Michigan (8,000), Illinois (5,733), New Jersey (5,100) and North Carolina (4,006). Site owners are ultimately liable for cleanup costs, but a taxpayer-funded trust fund is in place when sites must be addressed quickly, are abandoned or when owners don't have the resources. The fund is financed by a 0.1 cent per gallon tax on gasoline,  which generated $202 million in 2016. Administration officials did not offer much explanation for the cut, one of dozens proposed in the EPA budget." istorically the (underground tank) program has worked closely with our state, territorial, and tribal partners," an agency spokeswoman wrote in an email. "We know they are on the front lines to protect our land and groundwater from petroleum leaks, such as those from gas stations and other (underground storage tank) facilities, and we expect this partnership will continue to be a hallmark of the program." She wrote it would be "premature for us to speculate" about EPA's budget given that Congress has yet to finalize the agency's funding for next year. The House Appropriations Committee voted in July to restore almost all of the funding for the program, but neither the full House nor the Senate has acted yet. The cost of cleaning up a site depends on a variety of factors, including the extent of contamination and state cleanup standards. The average cleanup is estimated to cost $130,000 but can rise to over $1 million if groundwater is infected. Ben Thomas, a former tank inspector and state regulator in Alaska who now consults with private operators on meeting the inspection rules, said cutting the program would hurt businesses that have come to "appreciate the heavy stick of enforcement for bad players (and) the general community outreach." Slashing a program known for the collaboration between regulators and businesses and the effectiveness it's achieved in reducing the backlog of leaking tanks would be crippling, he said." t some point, such a deep cut makes any agency effectively non-responsive," Thomas said. "There's simply not enough money to know what to prioritize. Stuff that makes a big stink like enforcement would probably get cut (as would) the ability for states to maintain a hotline, maintain a web page or do workshops. I could easily imagine all that stuff would be kind of viewed as frivolous and go away because it's not core statement message stuff."	False
740	CBS News	left_center_bias	2017-10-07	"They are denying it just as they are denying the science.	Industry groups cheered the planned repeal, saying it would reverse regulatory overreach by Obama and McCarthy."	While the Supreme Court has concluded that EPA is obligated to regulate greenhouse gases, "this administration has no intention of following the law," said McCarthy, who led the EPA when the Clean Power Plan was completed.	Liz Perera, climate policy director for the Sierra Club, said repealing the Clean Power Plan "is about one thing and one thing only: helping corporate polluters profit."	The Clean Power Plan represented an unlawful attempt to transform the nation's power grid ... and raise costs on American consumers," said Hal Quinn, president and CEO of the National Mining Association.		Trump's EPA to ease emissions restrictions WASHINGTON — The Trump administration is moving to roll back the centerpiece of President Barack Obama's efforts to slow global warming, seeking to ease restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants. In a plan expected to be made public in coming days, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) declared the Obama-era rule exceeded federal law by setting emissions standards that power plants could not reasonably meet. The Associated Press obtained a copy of the 43-page document, which underscored President Trump's bid to revive the struggling coal industry. The EPA's new proposal would make good on Mr. Trump's campaign pledge to unravel Obama's efforts to curb global warming and follows Mr. Trump's promise to pull the United States out of the landmark Paris climate agreement. Nearly 200 countries have committed to combat global warming by reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming. The EPA won't prescribe an immediate replacement to the plan, but will seek public comment on whether to curb climate-warming emissions from coal and natural gas power plants.A spokeswoman for EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt declined to comment Friday on the authenticity of the leaked document but said the Obama administration "pushed the bounds of their authority so far" that the U.S. Supreme Court issued a stay to prevent the Clean Power Plan from taking effect." Any replacement rule that the Trump administration proposes will be done carefully and properly within the confines of the law," EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman said. The plan was first reported by Bloomberg News. The Obama administration's cost-benefits analysis of the Clean Power Plan was "highly uncertain" in multiple areas, Bowman said, vowing that the Trump administration will present a range of scenarios to the public "in a robust, open and transparent way." Obama's plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. The rule dictated specific emission targets for states based on power-plant emissions and gave officials broad latitude to decide how to achieve reductions. The Supreme Court put the plan on hold last year following a legal challenge by industry and coal-friendly states. Even so, the plan has been a factor in a wave of retirements of coal-fired plants, which also are being squeezed by lower costs for natural gas and renewable power and state mandates promoting energy conservation. Repealing the Clean Power Plan without a timeline or a commitment to propose a rule to reduce carbon pollution "isn't a step forward, it's a wholesale retreat from EPA's legal, scientific and moral obligation to address the threats of climate change,'" said former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy. While the Supreme Court has concluded that EPA is obligated to regulate greenhouse gases, "this administration has no intention of following the law," said McCarthy, who led the EPA when the Clean Power Plan was completed. "They are denying it just as they are denying the science. They're using stall tactics to defer action, ignoring the courts and the demands of the American people." Industry groups cheered the planned repeal, saying it would reverse regulatory overreach by Obama and McCarthy." The Clean Power Plan represented an unlawful attempt to transform the nation's power grid ... and raise costs on American consumers," said Hal Quinn, president and CEO of the National Mining Association. The Obama-era plan would have sharply reduced the number of coal-fired plants, making the grid more vulnerable to reliability concerns and increasing costs with "trivial environmental benefits," Quinn said. The new plan will save an estimated 240 million tons of annual coal production and safeguard more than 27,000 mining jobs and almost 100,000 additional jobs throughout the supply chain, he said. In the leaked document, the Trump administration argues that repealing the Clean Power Plan could spare an estimated $33 billion in compliance costs in 2030, arguing that the Obama administration overstated the rule's potential health benefits. Previously, the EPA had estimated that by 2030 the Clean Power Plan would prevent 90,000 asthma attacks and up to 3,600 premature deaths a year. The leaked document casts doubts on those numbers and says the EPA plans to perform updated modeling and analysis of health benefits and other impacts of the rule. Liz Perera, climate policy director for the Sierra Club, said repealing the Clean Power Plan "is about one thing and one thing only: helping corporate polluters profit."	False
227	thenewyorktimes	left_center_bias	2019-03-01	While Mr. Inslee has made clear that he intends to focus overwhelmingly on climate change, he is on the record supporting liberal policies in many other areas.• He has been outspoken in favor of gun control, and after the shooting in Parkland, Fla., last year, he confronted President Trump on live television, denouncing Mr. Trump's suggestion to arm schoolteachers.	His advocacy on the issue goes back many years; he lost his seat in Congress after voting for the 1994 assault weapons ban.	Jay Inslee on the Issues His environmental policy record in his home state is long.	Among other measures, he wants to expand background checks and restrict some semiautomatic weapons.	While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels, Washington had the highest G.D.P.		Jay Inslee on the Issues His environmental policy record in his home state is long. In 2015, he ordered Washington's Department of Ecology to impose a cap on carbon emissions. He created a fund for clean energy, and the state now has extensive solar energy infrastructure and electric buses. While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels, Washington had the highest G.D.P. growth in the nation in 2018, according to the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis. Mr. Inslee also tried unsuccessfully last year to get the Washington Legislature to vote on a carbon tax, which would have been the first in the nation; voters rejected the proposal in November. He then proposed a different series of actions, including running the state's electric utilities fully on renewable power by 2045, requiring buildings to be more energy efficient, promoting electric vehicles and cutting down on hydrofluorocarbons, which are used in air-conditioners. Hydrofluorocarbon emissions have been growing faster than any other form of greenhouse gas emissions. In an op-ed in The Washington Post, Mr. Inslee called for net-zero carbon emissions nationwide by 2050 — a longer timeline than the Green New Deal's 10 years, which experts say is unrealistic. ("Net-zero" could mean either eliminating carbon emissions altogether, or reducing them and using offsetting technologies to cancel out the rest.) He also called for a "100 percent clean-energy grid" and "massive investments" to transition buildings, industries and transportation to renewable sources. While Mr. Inslee has made clear that he intends to focus overwhelmingly on climate change, he is on the record supporting liberal policies in many other areas.• He has been outspoken in favor of gun control, and after the shooting in Parkland, Fla., last year, he confronted President Trump on live television, denouncing Mr. Trump's suggestion to arm schoolteachers. Among other measures, he wants to expand background checks and restrict some semiautomatic weapons. His advocacy on the issue goes back many years; he lost his seat in Congress after voting for the 1994 assault weapons ban.	False
565	breitbart	questionable_source	2018-02-09	"This new category of refugee needs to find a place in international agreements.	As recently as last year, anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu (pop.	The UN has since removed the claim from most of its websites.	"[58] Fry's speech to the conference was a highly impassioned plea for countries around the world to address the issues of man-made global warming resulting in climate change.	In his speech Fry claimed man-made global warming to be currently "the greatest threat to humanity", and ended with an emotional "the fate of my country rests in your hands".		Delingpole: 'Sinking' Pacific Island Actually Getting Bigger Shock In fact it's getting bigger, scientists now admit.A University of Auckland study examined changes in the geography of Tuvalu's nine atolls and 101 reef islands between 1971 and 2014, using aerial photographs and satellite imagery. It found eight of the atolls and almost three-quarters of the islands grew during the study period, lifting Tuvalu's total land area by 2.9 percent, even though sea levels in the country rose at twice the global average.  Co-author Paul Kench said the research, published Friday in the journal Nature Communications, challenged the assumption that low-lying island nations would be swamped as the sea rose. "We tend to think of Pacific atolls as static landforms that will simply be inundated as sea levels rise, but there is growing evidence these islands are geologically dynamic and are constantly changing," he said. "The study findings may seem counter-intuitive, given that (the) sea level has been rising in the region over the past half century, but the dominant mode of change over that time on Tuvalu has been expansion, not erosion." If only they'd done their study a bit earlier they could have saved a lot of alarmists a lot of worry. As recently as last year, anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu (pop. 11,000) and nearby Kiribati (pop.107,000) was so dire that Australia and New Zealand should open their doors to the fleeing refugees. According to the paper:In 2007, Grist went so far as to cite Tuvalu of one of climate change's most "tragic" victims.'Climate Change in Tuvalu' even has its own Wikipedia page. It records possibly Tuvalu's greatest moment of glory on the international stage when it seized the opportunity at the 2009 Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen to grandstand about its terrible plight. In December 2009 the islands stalled talks at United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, fearing some other developing countries were not committing fully to binding deals on a reduction in carbon emission, their chief negotiator stated "Tuvalu is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to climate change, and our future rests on the outcome of this meeting."[57] When the conference failed to reach a binding, meaningful agreement, Tuvalu's representative Ian Fry said, "It looks like we are being offered 30 pieces of silver to betray our people and our future… Our future is not for sale. I regret to inform you that Tuvalu cannot accept this document."[58] Fry's speech to the conference was a highly impassioned plea for countries around the world to address the issues of man-made global warming resulting in climate change. The five-minute speech addressed the dangers of rising sea levels to Tuvalu and the world. In his speech Fry claimed man-made global warming to be currently "the greatest threat to humanity", and ended with an emotional "the fate of my country rests in your hands".[59]Tuvalu's plight also formed part of the basis for arguably the most hysterical fake news claim in the history of climate alarmism: the UN's prediction that by the end of 2010, climate change would have created "50 million environmental refugees". The UN has since removed the claim from most of its websites. Happily, it can still be glimpsed in the Guardian archives:Rising sea levels, desertification and shrinking freshwater supplies will create up to 50 million environmental refugees by the end of the decade, experts warn today. Janos Bogardi, director of the Institute for Environment and Human Security at the United Nations University in Bonn, said creeping environmental deterioration already displaced up to 10 million people a year, and the situation would get worse. "There are well-founded fears that the number of people fleeing untenable environmental conditions may grow exponentially as the world experiences the effects of climate change," Dr Bogardi said. "This new category of refugee needs to find a place in international agreements. We need to better anticipate support requirements, similar to those of people fleeing other unviable situations." In reality, the total number of environmental refugees fleeing climate change so far around the world is close to zero. But that hasn't stopped a few chancers from trying it on…Seventeen people from the Pacific – including 11 from Tuvalu and five from Kiribati – have already made refugee claims in New Zealand, citing climate change as part of their basis of claim. None have been successful (four have yet to be determined and 13 have been rejected) because the refugees convention does not recognise climate change as grounds for protection. To climate skeptics, the fact that Tuvalu is not drowning will come as no surprise whatsoever. Their favorite sea levels expert – Nils-Axel Mörner – has written numerous papers on the subject.	False
583	TheBlaze	right_bias	2017-08-02	Recently, he said that the global warming fight was in the same vein as great "moral causes" of humanity in the past, like the Civil Rights cause of the '60s, and abolition.	Well, arguments about science aren't necessarily going to be any comfort to you and I'm sorry for what you're going through," Gore said."	Gore asked."	Eskridge faced the climate warming alarmist during a CNN town hall on global warming."	But I'm just not seeing it," he said.		Mayor of disappearing island faces Al Gore and shuts down global warming claim James "Ooker" Eskridge is the mayor of a town on an island disappearing in the Chesapeake Bay, but rather than see it as evidence of global warming, he used it to shut down Al Gore's narrative that the seas are rising because of climate change. Eskridge faced the climate warming alarmist during a CNN town hall on global warming." 'm a commercial crabber," Eskridge said, "and I've been working the Chesapeake Bay for 50-plus years. And I have a crab house business out on the water. And water level is the same as it was when the place was built in 1970." I'm not a scientist but I'm a keen observer, and if sea level rises are occurring," he asked, "why am I not seeing signs of it?""Our island is disappearing," he explained, "but it's because of erosion and not because of sea level rising, unless we get a seawall, we will lose our island." But, back to the question," he said, "why am I not seeing signs of the sea level rising?""What do you think the erosion is due to, mayor?" Gore asked." o you're losing the island even though the waves haven't increased," Gore said." es," Eskridge replied, "his erosion has been going on since Captain John Smith discovered the island." Well, arguments about science aren't necessarily going to be any comfort to you and I'm sorry for what you're going through," Gore said." t won't necessarily do you any good for me to tell you that the scientists do say that the sea level is rising in the Chesapeake Bay," he continued, "and that you've lost about two-thirds of your island already, over a longer period of time. And the forecast for the future is another two feet of sea — if there was another two feet of sea level rise, what would that mean for Tangier Island?""Tangier Island, our elevation is only about 4 feet above level," Eskridge said, "and if I see sea level rise occurring, I'll shout it from the housetops, we don't have, you know, the land to give up." But I'm just not seeing it," he said. Eskridge's plight to save his island reached mainstream media attention when President Donald Trump called him after seeing a CNN report about the disappearing island's Trump-supporting mayor. Trump reportedly told him to not worry about his island and that it would be there for many hundreds of years more. It wasn't clear if he addressed the seawall construction to save the island. Gore is currently making the rounds to publicize the sequel to his global climate documentary, "An Inconvenient Truth." Recently, he said that the global warming fight was in the same vein as great "moral causes" of humanity in the past, like the Civil Rights cause of the '60s, and abolition.	False
76	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-09-19	"Eventually, it dawned on me that I should maybe bring my actions into alignment with my beliefs."	Some people, like Tarek Maassarani, take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes.	Maassarani is quick to admit that his case falls well outside what most people could envisage and is made possible only by living in what he calls a "consumption excessive society."	At the same time, if meat is all that is left when he rummages through garbage or approaches buffets (he makes it a point to go last), he will consume it.	Kalmus, who has written a book on his experiences, said meeting critical goals to avert disaster will require a "rapid cultural transformation," and acts of individual defiance help achieve that.	Solar panels, vegan diets, no flights: 'Warming' revolutionaries... <sep> 	Solar panels, vegan diets, no flights: 'Warming' revolutionaries... The last time Californian climate scientist Peter Kalmus was on an airplane was in 2012: He says it made him feel physically sick and like he was "stealing" from his children's future, and vowed never to fly again. US President Donald Trump's administration has made no secret of its disdain for climate science, but that hasn't stopped some ordinary Americans from finding ways to drastically reduce their own carbon footprints, hoping to persuade others through their examples. Kalmus was pursuing his post-doctoral studies in 2009 when he became increasingly concerned about the prospect of climate breakdown, tipping points such as the thawing of the Earth's permafrost triggering runaway global warming that wreaks havoc on weather systems. "I was shaking people by the lapels, posting screeds on Facebook, not really getting anywhere," he told AFP in an interview from his home in a Los Angeles suburb. "Eventually, it dawned on me that I should maybe bring my actions into alignment with my beliefs." Drawing upon his expertise as a scientist, he calculated the emissions associated with various aspects of his life and was surprised to learn that electricity consumption made up a tiny portion compared to air travel. "So I started focusing on flying less. I tried being a vegetarian for a month, and I liked it better," he said, quickly realizing that, rather than feeling like sacrifices, the changes he made were improving his sense of wellbeing. Some people, like Tarek Maassarani, take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes. The bespectacled 40-year-old with long blond hair does paid consulting for the United States Institute of Peace and is an adjunct professor at two Washington universities, but performs the bulk of his work in the volunteer sector. Two years ago, he moved out of a co-housing community in a Washington suburb when his two sons shifted to Utah to live with their mother, and has been living between friends' houses ever since. Apart from relying almost exclusively on his bicycle for transport, including deep into winter, Maassarani is focused on avoiding buying new products because of the energy-intensive nature of their production. He instead depends on hand-me-downs, "and I sort of extend the life of things well past what most people would do," finding ways to keep tatty decade-old cell phones and laptops going. He gets much of his food from dumpster diving or from the leftovers at buffets from conferences he attends, describing himself as a "supply-and-demand vegan." What this means is "I don't buy any animal products, I try not to create any demand signal for animal products," he said. At the same time, if meat is all that is left when he rummages through garbage or approaches buffets (he makes it a point to go last), he will consume it. Maassarani is quick to admit that his case falls well outside what most people could envisage and is made possible only by living in what he calls a "consumption excessive society." "I'm aware of course that if the excesses weren't there, it wouldn't work, but then again the problem wouldn't be there." Others, like Elizabeth Hogan, lead more conventional lives but are still re-orienting themselves toward more carbon neutrality. Hogan, who works as a consultant on mitigating the impact of ocean plastics on marine life, just outfitted solar panels on the roof of her home in Washington. She and her husband estimate these will account for 80 percent of their energy needs, with the balance coming from wind power bought at a premium from their electric provider. "Both of our careers are very planet-oriented, so it's kind of our whole lives, but I am certainly not claiming to be perfect," she says, conceding that they both fly extensively for work. Her love of cheese means she's a vegetarian, rather than a vegan, but sources her dairy from a nearby local farm that cleans and re-uses glass bottles returned to them. But how impactful can individual action be, in the absence of systemic changes from the top? After all, the United States' current climate commitments are rated by Climate Action Tracker as "critically insufficient" in meeting the goal of limiting long-term warming to two degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Kalmus, who has written a book on his experiences, said meeting critical goals to avert disaster will require a "rapid cultural transformation," and acts of individual defiance help achieve that. "The reason everyone's waking up is because there's been this massive grassroots shift over the last year or two," he said, citing the global youth movement for climate action. One of the many ways people can contribute to that movement is by telling others about steps they have personally taken, "then when you say 'this is really urgent,' your words are backed by the truth of your actions." Vegan is the new vegetarian—why supermarkets need to go 'plant-based' to help save the planet This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research, no part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is provided for information purposes only.	True
59	foxnews	right_bias	2019-02-08	This is honesty (sp) about how Democrats would micromanage private life."	omehow, government-run healthcare, 'family sustainable' wages, paid leave, and 'affordable' housing are also 'required' for a clean economy," the writer wrote.	"I would love to understand this logic.	No fossil fuel, no visits to granny.	Right?"		WSJ writer slams Ocasio-Cortez's Green New Deal, says it looks like Dem parody bill The Wall Street Journal's Kimberley Strassel issued a blistering critique of the proposed Green New Deal, saying that the proposal reads like a parody of the Democratic Party done by Republicans." y the end of the Green New Deal resolution (and accompanying fact sheet) I was laughing so hard I nearly cried," Strassel wrote on Twitter. "If a bunch of GOPers plotted to forge a fake Democratic bill showing how bonkers the party is, they could not have done a better job. It is beautiful." The Green New Deal, pushed by freshman New York Democrat Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez, attempts to radically transform the country, including rendering air travel obsolete, move the U.S. to rely completely on renewable energy with net-zero emissions, and guarantee economic security even for people who are "unwilling" to work. OCASIO-CORTEZ CONTRADICTS HERSELF ON ROLE OF GOVERNMENT IN MASSIVE AND UNPRECEDENTED 'GREEN NEW DEAL'But the sweeping proposal was hit with mockery once the details were unveiled on Thursday, with many pointing out how unrealistic the suggestions are. Strassel pointed out that in order to live up to the proposal's promise of 100 percent of renewable energy, a space as big as the entire state of California would have to be dedicated solely for the facilities, wind turbines, and solar panels. The proposal's suggestion of putting charging stations "everywhere," upgrading or replacing "every building" and developing high-speed railway across every state may also hit a wall due to permitting laws. FULL TEXT: GREEN NEW DEAL FAQ CALLS FOR ABOLISHING 'FARTING COWS' AND 'AIRPLANES' ASAPStrassel notes that the Green New Deal is far from just a proposal to curb emissions and create more environmental regulations – it's also about implementing radical left-wing measures." omehow, government-run healthcare, 'family sustainable' wages, paid leave, and 'affordable' housing are also 'required' for a clean economy," the writer wrote. "I would love to understand this logic. (And imagine what wages will need to be to pay for billion-dollar-per-kilowatt electricity)." But even those pushing for the document aren't sure it can actually be achieved within 10 years. In a now-deleted FAQ page on Ocasio-Cortez's website, the document explains that it's calling for an elimination of greenhouse gas emissions rather than an immediate ban on fossil fuels because "we aren't sure that we'll be able to fully get rid of farting cows and airplanes that fast." Planes run on fossil fuel. No fossil fuel, no visits to granny. Cows produce methane, why alarmists want to get rid of livestock," Stressel wrote. "She can't do it 'fully' in 10 years, but AOC is coming after your air miles and bacon. This is honesty (sp) about how Democrats would micromanage private life." Lastly, the Green New Deal, which doesn't exactly reveal how it will be funded, except for the suggestion that the Federal Reserve could step in and extend credit. CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP"And how to pay for mass trillions in cost? Don't worry! Federal Reserve will just 'extend credit' and 'new public banks can be created to extend credit too,'" the writer tweeted. "Because, you know, like, money is just paper, and how hard can it be to make some more of the stuff, right? Right?"	False
607	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-04-06	Master's primary responsibility, according to Schneiderman's office, will be investigating and possibly prosecuting the Trump administration for possible civil rights abuses.	Master] will be working on a wide range of civil and criminal investigations and enforcement matters, including public corruption, complex civil litigation," Eric Soufer, a spokesman for Schneiderman, told WSJ.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The New York-led group of states argue Trump's Environmental Protections Agency has a legal obligation to regulate emissions some climate scientists believe contribute to global warming."	Schneiderman has made fighting what he calls "man-made" global warming a crucial part of his duties as New York's top law office.		States File Legal Challenge Asserting Trump's EPA MUST Fight Global Warming A coalition of states filed a legal challenge Wednesday against the Trump administration's decision to roll back a slew of Obama-era climate regulations. The legal motion comes after Trump signed an executive order targeting climate change regulations ushered in by former President Barack Obama. The New York-led group of states argue Trump's Environmental Protections Agency has a legal obligation to regulate emissions some climate scientists believe contribute to global warming." he law is clear: the EPA must limit carbon pollution from power plants," New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who is leading the legal challenge, said in a statement. Other states behind the challenge include California, Delaware, Maryland and Massachusetts. The motion asks the District of Columbia U.S. Court of Appeals to toss out a request from the Trump administration for a delay in the court proceedings on an Obama-era policy known as the Clean Power Plan. Trump's executive order was largely aimed at halting the Clean Power Plan, which required states to slash carbon dioxide emissions from coal power plants. The plan was never implemented, however, because it was challenged in court by 26 Republican-led states. The Trump administration says this and other Obama-era rules hinder the American economy and create a stultifying business environment. The coalition of states argued in a statement the delay "would waste the substantial resources already expended in this litigation," according to a statement from the group. Schneiderman hired Howard Master, a prosecutor who served under an Obama-appointed U.S. attorney, to focus on corruption cases involving the Trump administration. Master's primary responsibility, according to Schneiderman's office, will be investigating and possibly prosecuting the Trump administration for possible civil rights abuses. Schneiderman's decision to hire Master may indicate the crusading AG plans to flood Trump and his administration with legal filings, subpoenas, and lawsuits, The Wall Street Journal reported." Master] will be working on a wide range of civil and criminal investigations and enforcement matters, including public corruption, complex civil litigation," Eric Soufer, a spokesman for Schneiderman, told WSJ. Schneiderman has made fighting what he calls "man-made" global warming a crucial part of his duties as New York's top law office. He has engaged in a months-long investigation into whether Exxon Mobil illegally hid internal climate research from the public and shareholders. The Democrat based the bulk of his probes on research from left-leading media outlets, many of which receive funding from wealthy environmental groups. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	False
866	RT	questionable_source	2017-08-30	he unit was stabilized.	It added it was "taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment."	"Actions were taken to minimize emissions and to restore the refinery to normal operations."	This effectively means the affected companies can report whatever they wish without any oversight from the state regulators.	t this time, while we do not believe there is any imminent danger, the potential for a chemical reaction leading to a fire and/or explosion within the site confines is real," Arkema said in a statement.		Texas air pollution sensors switched off as refineries seep toxic chemicals into air & water US crude oil and petrochemical refining capacity in Texas has been severely damaged by Hurricane Harvey, releasing hazardous pollutants into the air and flood waters left in the wake of the storm. Arkema, a global chemical major, warned Wednesday that flooding has severely damaged their Houston plant's refrigeration systems, increasing the likelihood of an explosion in the coming week and a heightened risk of yet more pollutants leaking into the ecosystem." t this time, while we do not believe there is any imminent danger, the potential for a chemical reaction leading to a fire and/or explosion within the site confines is real," Arkema said in a statement. Oil giant Exxon Mobil is among the companies to report incidents of emissions released at its refineries as a result of the hurricane which ransacked coastal parts of Texas and caused widespread flooding in the country's fourth biggest city, Houston. However, the true extent of the air pollution will prove hard to determine for some time after the storm subsides as The Texas Council on Environmental Quality shut down all of its air quality monitors in the Houston area, according to the Houston Press. This effectively means the affected companies can report whatever they wish without any oversight from the state regulators. Texas is also home to several so-called superfund sites, designated areas of extreme pollution "which warrant further investigation" according to the Environmental Protection Agency. As shown in the before and after maps below, the vast majority of these toxic sites are now flooded in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey. On Wednesday, Saudi-owned Motiva shuttered its refinery in Port Arthur, Texas, the largest facility in the US, which normally produces 600,000 barrels a day. At least 13 other refineries in the area closed as a result of Harvey, the US Department of Energy reported, while others are operating at limited capacity. Exxon admitted there were issues at its plants in a regulatory filing to the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality. Its Baytown refinery near Houston, the second-largest in the country, was shutdown on Sunday as Harvey moved inland. The refinery reported two controlled emission release events, which included carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and benzene being released into the atmosphere. The chemicals and pollutants released from refineries and plants in Texas' petrochemical hub are known to have a damaging effect on the environment and could pose a risk of contaminating floodwaters left in the hurricane's wake. The petrochemical Benzene, a carcinogen and major component in fossil fuels, reduces red and white blood cell production and decreases auto-immune cell function following prolonged exposure. While other emissions, including, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides are particle-forming air pollutants that contribute to cardiopulmonary health issues, like lung cancer, bronchitis and emphysema. In a third reported incident since Harvey made landfall in Texas, Exxon said a floating roof over a tank in its Baytown refinery sank as a result of the rain, causing unusually high levels of emissions to be released. Floating roofs are common in oil tanks and are a way to control how much oil is lost to evaporation by allowing the roof to move based on the amount of liquid in the tank. Exxon said it would "conduct an assessment to determine the impact of the storm once it's safe to do so," the Washington Post reports. The company said it needed to make repairs on the tank, which would involve first emptying it, though Exxon could not confirm in what time frame. One of the company's other facilities, in Beaumont, east of Houston, also released 1,300lbs of sulphur dioxide in one hour on Sunday, exceeding its allocated emissions limit by a factor of ten to one." xcess emissions occurred during an upset on the Sulfur Plant Thermal Oxidizer," Exxon said in the report." he unit was stabilized. No impact to the community has been reported," the company said. "Actions were taken to minimize emissions and to restore the refinery to normal operations." Petrochemical giant Chevron Phillips reported an estimated 776,000 pounds of combined chemicals released from its Cedar Bayou plant in Baytown as part of its plant shutdown. Kinder Morgan, the largest energy infrastructure company in North America, stores petroleum products for companies such as Chevron and Shell at its terminal in Pasadena, Harris. It reported 394,000 pounds of combined hazardous chemicals on Sunday and Monday, also as a result of a malfunctioning floating roof. In this case, it caused product to spill to the ground. Kinder Morgan said it will "attempt to safely land roof of Tank 150-39 and remove product when conditions are safe." It added it was "taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment." Almost one third of US oil refining capacity is located on the Gulf Coast. The US produces about 17.5 million barrels of oil per day. According to oil market analysts cited by CNBC, about 20 percent of the country's oil refining operations are out of service. Ships carrying crude oil from the Mexican Gulf are not able to port in the area due to swelling waters caused by Harvey, resulting in a backlog of ships waiting to dock and unload their cargo. The Gulf of Mexico accounts for close to 20 percent of total US crude oil production. CNBC estimates the port closures cost roughly $350 million a day. The port hold-up also affects the amount of crude oil refineries have access to once they return to full operation. Gas prices across the US have already risen to a two-year high, with the increase likely to hit consumers at the pump in a week. It is unknown how long the refineries will remain out of production, as the extent of flood damage is not yet known. Following Hurricane Katrina in 2005, refineries in the area didn't return to normal production capacity for two months.	False
305	rt	questionable_source	2019-09-05	But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Like this story?	At around the same time, his campaign cautioned voters not to "turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines" – an ironic coincidence, or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event?Before Biden's eye exploded, the audience had been raking him over the coals for a scheduled fundraiser the following night at the home of a natural gas executive.	Is he OK?		Is he OK? Biden's eye fills with BLOOD as he defends fossil fuel ties at climate forum (VIDEO) Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audience's eyes at the climate change town hall – literally, as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half-truths and excuses. The former Vice President was clearly floundering during CNN's climate change town hall on Wednesday, which saw him face off against eight other Democrats. Viewers called him out for "rambling, incoherent" answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry. Then his left eye began filling up with blood. At around the same time, his campaign cautioned voters not to "turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines" – an ironic coincidence, or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event?Before Biden's eye exploded, the audience had been raking him over the coals for a scheduled fundraiser the following night at the home of a natural gas executive. The three-time candidate has never been particularly committed to "green" issues – slammed by environmental groups for not having a climate change policy, he finally released one in June that contained several plagiarized items. But he had, along with most of the other Democratic candidates, promised not to take money from the fossil fuel industry – a promise the fundraiser seemed to break, to viewers' dismay. But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye. "Look, Biden haters, sometimes your eye is gonna spontaneously fill up with blood, okay," one user joked. "Twitter furiously deploying algorithms to keep Biden's bloody corpse eye from trending," observed another (it appeared to work - while #ClimateTownHall was trending, #BidensBloodyEye and variations thereof were noticeably not). Apparently, it wasn't even the first time Biden's eye has filled up with blood during an important political event. But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment. "Not sure after tonight who has less time to live, Biden or the planet," said one. "Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding," commented another. "I give it 14 minutes before Biden's campaign says his bloody eye was because of climate change," predicted another. Meanwhile, others made the inevitable comparisons to Hillary Clinton – another candidate with a marked "enthusiasm gap" between donors and voters, who has run for president and lost before, yet is propped up by the media as the surefire winner. And some took time out from gawking to worry about his health, since political speeches don't normally cause visible injury. "Does Biden have a blood clot in his left eye?" wondered one user. "This can't be good news, given his health history," noted another. Like this story? Share it with a friend!	False
179	pbs	left_center_bias	2019-02-28	She saidin a statement that, unlike Pruitt, Wheeler "understands the mission of theEPA and acts in accordance with ethical standards.	Environmental groups, meanwhile, slammed Wheeler, saying that while hisbehavior is "less cartoonish" than Pruitt, he supports the same policies."	However, the policies hehas supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of ourenvironment and public health, particularly given the threat of climate changeto our nation."	America's Power, a trade group that represents coal producers, applaudedWheeler's confirmation."	But Sen. Tom Udall, D-N.M., said Wheeler was failing to protect theenvironment and human health and was "nominated to unravel and undo theenvironmental protections that are now in place."		Senate confirms acting EPA chief Andrew Wheeler for permanent role WASHINGTON — The Senate on Thursday confirmed former coal industry lobbyistAndrew Wheeler to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, despite concernsby Democrats and one Republican about regulatory rollbacks he's made in eightmonths as the agency's acting chief. Senators voted 52-47 to confirm Wheeler, who was nominated by President DonaldTrump after former administrator Scott Pruitt resigned last year amid a seriesof ethics allegations. Sen. John Barrasso, R-Wyo., chairman of the Senate environment committee,called Wheeler "uniquely qualified" to lead EPA and said that under Wheelerthe agency is putting forward proposals that "both protect our environment andallow the country's economy to flourish." But Sen. Tom Udall, D-N.M., said Wheeler was failing to protect theenvironment and human health and was "nominated to unravel and undo theenvironmental protections that are now in place." Wheeler, 54, was confirmed as deputy administrator last April and becameacting chief in July after Pruitt resigned. He worked at the EPA early in hiscareer and was a top aide at the Senate Environment Committee before becominga lobbyist a decade ago. Maine Sen. Susan Collins was the sole Republican to oppose Wheeler. She saidin a statement that, unlike Pruitt, Wheeler "understands the mission of theEPA and acts in accordance with ethical standards. However, the policies hehas supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of ourenvironment and public health, particularly given the threat of climate changeto our nation." Collins said she was particularly concerned that EPA has proposed to roll backrules regulating mercury emissions from power plants and moved to replace theClean Power Plan, former President Barack Obama's signature proposal to combatclimate change." here is no doubt that the greenhouse gas emissions driving climate changepose a significant threat" to Maine and the nation, Collins said, adding thatpollution from coal-fired power plants threatens Maine's natural resources,"from our working forests, fishing and agricultural industries, to tourism andrecreation." VIDEO  _At his confirmation hearing in January, Wheeler told lawmakers that climatechange is "a huge issue" but not the "greatest crisis." Video by PBS NewsHour_Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia, who supported Wheeler'snomination as deputy last year, voted against his promotion. Wheeler was not making "meaningful progress" on clean water standards, Manchinsaid, citing the agency's failure to limit the amount of highly toxicchemicals contaminating drinking water in West Virginia and around thecountry. The EPA has announced plans to place legal limits on the chemicals but has notyet done so. The perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances, knowncollectively as PFAS, have been linked to health threats ranging from cancerto decreased fertility."  believe immediate action must be taken, and these efforts lack a sense ofurgency," Manchin said. Like Collins, Manchin also said he was concerned at EPA's attempt to undorules designed to limit emissions of mercury, which can damage the brains ofinfants and young children. Environmental groups, meanwhile, slammed Wheeler, saying that while hisbehavior is "less cartoonish" than Pruitt, he supports the same policies." heeler wants to turn the EPA into a wish-granting service for polluters, nomatter the cost to public health or wildlife. But it's only a matter of timebefore his dirty dealings land him in the same trash heap as his predecessor,"said Emily Knobbe, EPA policy specialist at the Center for BiologicalDiversity, an Arizona-based environmental group. America's Power, a trade group that represents coal producers, applaudedWheeler's confirmation." uring his time as acting administrator, Andrew Wheeler has been seen as athoughtful leader who understands the need for sensible environmentalpolicies," said Michelle Bloodworth, the group's president and CEO. Wheeler's"long experience in public service demonstrates his integrity in serving EPA'smission," she said.)	False
44	thedailycaller	right_bias	2019-03-13	org.	e will no longer accept this injustice.	Now we will make our voices heard."350.	People did die, are dying and will die because of it, but we can and will stop this madness."	(RELATED: Thousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests)"We have the right to live our dreams and hopes," the letter continues.		Kids Around The World Are Using Climate Change As An Excuse To Skip School Young students across the world plan to skip class on Friday, claiming that they will devote the day to protesting man-made climate change. Students from more than 70 countries will skip class on Friday, March 15 to demand that their governments take more action on addressing climate change, according to #FridaysForFuture, a youth-led movement that is behind the strike. Tens of thousands of students will reportedly take part in the event." e will no longer accept this injustice. We demand justice for all past, current and future victims of the climate crisis, and so we are rising up," read an open letter that the activists published on the Guardian, claiming they would be protesting on "every continent" on Friday. "Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world. Now we will make our voices heard."350. org, an international environmental group, is helping bolster the strike with its own promotional video. Activists are hoping to closely mirror the youth-led March For Our Lives protests in Washington, D.C., which took place nearly a year ago following the fatal Parkland, Florida school shooting, and spark more debate among lawmakers about the dangers of climate change. Activists in the U.S. are making similar demands that are found in Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's Green New Deal: a swift transition to 100 percent renewable energy, a complete abolition of fossil fuels and other environmental mandates. The group strongly references the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's 2018 report, which claims the world only has a few year to dramatically reduce carbon emissions or else face dire environmental consequences. (RELATED: Thousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests)"We have the right to live our dreams and hopes," the letter continues. "Climate change is already happening. People did die, are dying and will die because of it, but we can and will stop this madness." The protesters in Washington, D.C., will enjoy the presence of one well-known adult figure: Minnesota Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar. The freshman Democrat, who has made national headlines recently for a slew of anti-Semitic remarks, says she will attend the strike along with her 16-year old daughter, Isra Hirsi, an organizer of the protest. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
473	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-12-04	his is going to be the Great Society, the moon shot, the civil rights movement of our generation," she said.	"That is the scale of the ambition that this movement is going to require."	Bernie Sanders Stakes Out Forceful Climate Stance, Leapfrogging The 2020 Field Speakers included 350. org founder Bill McKibben, The Green Collar Economy author Van Jones, activist and "Big Little Lies" star Shailene Woodley, climate scientist Brenda Ekwurzel, activist and musician Xiuhtezcatl Martinez and Mayor Dale Ross of deep-red Georgetown, Texas, whose pragmatic embrace of newly cheap renewable energy has made him a poster boy for how Republicans could quit climate change denialism.	Despite stark policy differences with his chief rival in the primaries ― former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton supported fracking and raised twice as much from the oil and gas industry as her Republican opponent ― climate change remained a policy backwater in the election.	In the 2016 presidential election, Sanders staked out the most ambitious climate platform of any candidate, vowing to slash carbon dioxide pollution 40 percent by 2030, end fossil fuel subsidies and ban fracking.		Bernie Sanders Stakes Out Forceful Climate Stance, Leapfrogging The 2020 Field Speakers included 350. org founder Bill McKibben, The Green Collar Economy author Van Jones, activist and "Big Little Lies" star Shailene Woodley, climate scientist Brenda Ekwurzel, activist and musician Xiuhtezcatl Martinez and Mayor Dale Ross of deep-red Georgetown, Texas, whose pragmatic embrace of newly cheap renewable energy has made him a poster boy for how Republicans could quit climate change denialism. Rep.-elect Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), who has made championing a so-called Green New Deal her first priority since arriving in Washington, emerged as the fiercest voice on the panel Monday." his is going to be the Great Society, the moon shot, the civil rights movement of our generation," she said. "That is the scale of the ambition that this movement is going to require." In the 2016 presidential election, Sanders staked out the most ambitious climate platform of any candidate, vowing to slash carbon dioxide pollution 40 percent by 2030, end fossil fuel subsidies and ban fracking. Despite stark policy differences with his chief rival in the primaries ― former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton supported fracking and raised twice as much from the oil and gas industry as her Republican opponent ― climate change remained a policy backwater in the election.	False
57	nationalreview	right_bias	2019-03-29	Another problem, which compounds the first, is that they get greedy.	First, they are their own worst enemy when it comes to maintaining credibility.	(If you don't believe me, I refer you to the movies Armageddon and Deep Impact.	By working on the theory that they have to scare the bejeebus out of the public, they made it easy for people to dismiss them when their Chicken Little prophecies didn't materialize.	So would the human race and many other living things.		Democrats Take a Nonsensical Approach to Climate Change Environmental concerns are real, but the planet still will be here in twelve years. Imagine there's a movie about a meteor heading toward Earth. It will be here in twelve years. Following Hollywood convention, once you got past the part where the maverick scientist or precocious kid discovering it struggles to convince the world about the threat, you'd expect the president or the military to leap into action. Congress is usually left out of such plots, but it's not a stretch to imagine that Congress would race to authorize a plan to send astronauts into space to prevent Armageddon or a planetary deep impact. (If you don't believe me, I refer you to the movies Armageddon and Deep Impact.)The initial rollout of the Green New Deal, a sweeping proposal to overhaul the U.S. economy and, taken seriously, society itself, was supposed to follow a script like this. The United Nations opened the bidding by announcing last year that we had twelve years to keep the pace of climate change from accelerating too fast to contain the damage. Like a high school game of telephone, this quickly became a blanket statement that we have "twelve years to save the planet." Climate change is a real concern, but if we did absolutely nothing to stop it, the planet would still be here in a dozen years. So would the human race and many other living things. In fact, if America did virtually everything the Green New Dealers propose, global emissions of greenhouse gases wouldn't change that much unless China, India, Russia, and all the African nations followed suit. There are people who nonetheless believe that climate change is a world-threatening calamity and that exaggeration is a necessary tool to galvanize public opinion. If you Google the phrase "twelve years to save the planet," you'll find people who think it's literally true. The problem is that we've heard these things before. In 1989, a U.N. official predicted "entire nations could be wiped off the face of the Earth by rising sea levels if the global warming trend is not reversed by the year 2000." In 2008, Al Gore warned that the northern polar ice cap could be gone in five years. Melting polar ice is something to worry about, but it's not gone. The reasons this is a political problem for climate-change warriors should be obvious. First, they are their own worst enemy when it comes to maintaining credibility. By working on the theory that they have to scare the bejeebus out of the public, they made it easy for people to dismiss them when their Chicken Little prophecies didn't materialize. Another problem, which compounds the first, is that they get greedy. Working on the premise that a crisis is a terrible thing to waste, progressives have a long record of trying to throw other items on their wish list into the anti-climate-change shopping cart. The Green New Deal, as presented by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D., N.Y.), includes high-quality health care for everyone, guaranteed jobs, paid vacations, a living wage, and retirement security. Indeed, it's worth remembering that environmentalists targeted the fossil-fuel industry for early retirement long before concerns about global warming were on the agenda. The anti-oil campaign began with the Santa Barbara oil spill in 1969, back when concerns about another ice age were still taken seriously. You can believe that climate change is a real problem and also be forgiven for thinking progressives are trying to pull a fast one. This is especially so when you consider that proponents of the GND also favor phasing out nuclear power, which could provide vastly more electricity than wind or solar (and more efficiently). Which gets me back to where I started. Imagine there was a movie about an incoming meteor that could be stopped only with a nuclear warhead, and the heroes insisted that nuclear weapons are just too icky to use, even to save the planet. Audiences would scratch their heads. They might also think they missed a crucial plot point if the protagonists proposed a sweeping government effort to stop the meteor and then, when given the opportunity to vote for it, voted "present" in protest. That's similar to what happened this week. Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell brought the Green New Deal to the floor for a vote, and Democrats refused to vote for it. Instead, they harangued McConnell for pulling a stunt. They were right. It was a stunt. But sometimes it takes a stunt to expose an even bigger one.	False
450	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-05-24	Unacceptable and immoral.	Ignore," distort, or censor.	The report's lead researcher had earlier accused the Trump administration of attempting to censor the study by removing all mentions of human-caused climate change."	— Senator Jeff Merkley (@SenJeffMerkley) May 24, 2018	Three options were reportedly presented in the memo: The first was to conduct  "red team/blue team" debates to "highlight uncertainties" in climate data; the second was to review scientific studies under the Administrative Procedure Act; and the final option was to simply "ignore, and not seek to characterize or question, the science being conducted by Federal agencies and outside entities."		White House Officials Reportedly Considered Just 'Ignoring' New Climate Research The Trump administration spent time last year mulling over what its public position on climate science should be — and, according to a report published Wednesday by The Washington Post, outrightly "ignoring" new research was one option that officials considered. Citing an internal memo drafted in September by President Donald Trump's then-top energy and environmental aide, Michael Catanzaro, the Post reported that White House officials had discussed whether to "consider having a firm position on and a coherent, fact-based message about climate science ― specifically, whether, and to what extent, anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases are affecting the climate system, and what level of concern that warrants." Three options were reportedly presented in the memo: The first was to conduct  "red team/blue team" debates to "highlight uncertainties" in climate data; the second was to review scientific studies under the Administrative Procedure Act; and the final option was to simply "ignore, and not seek to characterize or question, the science being conducted by Federal agencies and outside entities." No formal policy ever did materialize from the memo or subsequent discussions on the issue. Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt was reportedly an advocate of holding "red team/blue team" debates to publicly critique climate science, but that idea was ultimately blocked by the White House, reported The New York Times in March. As the Post noted, the Catanzaro memo offers a glimpse into the challenges faced by the Trump administration on the issue of climate change. While White House officials continue to publicly downplay climate data and adopt policies to expand fossil fuel production in the U.S., federal agencies have continued to publish research showing that climate change is real, man-made and a growing threat to the U.S. On Friday, for instance, the National Park Service published a report that said the effects of climate change, like rising sea levels and intensifying storms, could damage park sites across the country. The report's lead researcher had earlier accused the Trump administration of attempting to censor the study by removing all mentions of human-caused climate change." gnoring the overwhelming evidence only sets us back further in addressing this serious threat," said Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.)." Ignore," distort, or censor. Those are the options the Trump White House is considering to deal with the overwhelming consensus on climate change. Unacceptable and immoral. We need a vision and a plan to #ActOnClimate, not willful ignorance.  — Senator Jeff Merkley (@SenJeffMerkley) May 24, 2018	False
339	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-07-28	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	Note that Judge Alsup is not a conservative judge.	Judge Alsup concluded that the courts should "defer to the legislative and executive branches."	Judge Keenan ruled that, "…it would thus be illogical to allow the City to bring state law claims when courts have found that these matters are areas of federal concern that have been delegated to the Executive Branch as they require a uniform, national solution…Global warming and solutions thereto must be addressed by the other two branches of government."	Steve Goreham is a speaker on the environment, business, and public policy and author of the book Outside the Green Box: Rethinking Sustainable Development.		All These Climate Change Lawsuits Will Be Thrown Out Last week, a federal judge dismissed New York City's climate change lawsuit against five major oil companies. Last month, another federal judge dismissed similar global warming claims against oil firms brought by San Francisco and Oakland. More than a dozen climate lawsuits filed during the last year by cities and counties seek billions of dollars in damages from oil and gas companies. But it appears that all of these lawsuits will eventually be thrown out. New York City sought monetary damages from BP, Chevron, Conoco-Phillips, ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell as compensation for damage caused by dangerous global warming allegedly caused by the companies. But John F. Keenan, District Court judge for the Southern District of New York, disagreed and dismissed the complaint. Judge Keenan ruled that, "…it would thus be illogical to allow the City to bring state law claims when courts have found that these matters are areas of federal concern that have been delegated to the Executive Branch as they require a uniform, national solution…Global warming and solutions thereto must be addressed by the other two branches of government." On June 25 on the west coast, US District Judge William Alsup threw out similar suits brought by the California cities of Oakland and San Francisco. Judge Alsup stated, "…it is true that carbon dioxide released from fossil fuels has caused (and will continue to cause) global warming. But against that negative, we must weigh this positive: Our industrial revolution and the development of our modern world have literally been fueled by oil and coal. Without those fuels, virtually all of our monumental progress would have been impossible." Judge Alsup concluded that the courts should "defer to the legislative and executive branches." Note that Judge Alsup is not a conservative judge. Alsup was nominated by President Bill Clinton in 1999. In January, he blocked Trump Administration efforts to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. Several other climate lawsuits are pending in California. In July of last year, San Mateo County, Marin County, and Imperial Beach filed separate suits against 37 oil and gas companies in California Superior Court. Last December, Santa Cruz and Santa Cruz County also brought suits in California Superior Court against 29 companies. In January, the City of Richmond, California and the County of Contra Costa also filed claims against 29 companies. Other state entities also initiated legal action this year. In April, the city of Boulder, Boulder County and San Miguel County filed a suit in Colorado against Exxon and Suncor. In May, King County Washington, the home of Seattle, filed suit against five companies. Just this month, the state of Rhode Island and the City of Baltimore filed separate climate change suits against oil and gas companies. But all of these suits are likely to be thrown out. The New York City and the Oakland/San Francisco suits, the lawsuits with the highest profile, have now been dismissed. As Judge Alsup noted in his opinion, "No plaintiff has ever succeeded in bringing a nuisance claim based on global warming." All district or appellate courts are likely to eventually rule that climate change issues are to be decided by the federal government, not state and local governments. It's clear that climate lawsuits do not reflect the will of congressional representatives elected by the American people. In December of 1998, President Bill Clinton signed the Kyoto Protocol, a 1997 international treaty signed by 192 nations committing to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But the US Senate passed a resolution of disapproval with a vote of 95-0, so the treaty was never submitted to the Senate for ratification. Cap and trade legislation was rejected by Congress in 2003, 2005, 2007, and 2009. Last week the US House of Representatives passed a resolution opposing a carbon tax. While advocates of climate common sense are pleased with the recent court decisions, the acceptance that humans are causing dangerous climate change by the oil and gas defendants is very disappointing. Evidence shows that natural factors, not emissions from industry, dominate global temperatures. Nor are the feared climate disasters happening. Evidence shows that storms, droughts, or floods are neither more frequent nor more severe than in past decades. Oceans are rising 7-8 inches per century, not the 20 feet per century predicted by former Vice President Al Gore and others. And the polar bears are doing just fine.A simple example is the question of snow extent. The Boulder, Colorado lawsuit alleges that warming caused by oil companies is "reducing the snowpack" in Colorado mountains. While some areas have received less snow, satellite data from the Rutgers University Global Snow lab shows that both North American and Northern Hemisphere snow extent has been increasing for the last 40 years. Like most efforts to "fight climate change," climate lawsuits are a massive waste of taxpayer money. Cities, counties, and states are spending millions of dollars on futile public nuisance lawsuits that are doomed to failure. Steve Goreham is a speaker on the environment, business, and public policy and author of the book Outside the Green Box: Rethinking Sustainable Development. The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	False
399	cnn	left_bias	2018-12-10	The US and the three other nations sided against "welcoming" the measure."	The United States was willing to note the report and express appreciation to the scientists who developed it, but not to welcome it, as that would denote endorsement of the report," the State Department said in a statement."	Countries were asked to "welcome" the report put out by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which says governments around the world must take "rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society" to avoid disastrous levels of global warming.	"American strength flows from American energy, and as it turns out, we have a lot of American energy."	As we have made clear in the IPCC and other bodies, the United States has not endorsed the findings of the report," it added.		5 things the Trump admin has done that go against its climate change warning Washington (CNN) Since the Trump administration released its blockbuster report on the day after Thanksgiving outlining the dire environmental and economic impacts of climate change, it has made a series of policy and diplomatic decisions or statements that appear to run counter to all of the warnings in the report. In fact, none are designed to reduce fossil fuel emissions, which the report said is needed to combat extreme climate change, which otherwise will cause "substantial damages to the US economy, environment, and human health and well-being over the coming decades." President Donald Trump, who previously has called climate change a "hoax," has rejected the report's conclusion that climate change could be devastating for the economy, saying "I don't believe it." Here's what the administration has said and done since Thanksgiving:EPA acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler said the carbon-capture technology required by the Obama-era made constructing new power plants too expensive. But the decline of coal for power plants has been a long-term trend regardless as the energy industry has moved to less expensive sources such as natural gas. Environmentalists worry the proposed rule suggests the EPA will set new standards that would weaken the requirements that the agency uses to regulate other types of pollution. The administration may "be trying to lower the bar significantly for future new sources of pollution that the EPA tries to regulate," said Mary Anne Hitt, senior director of the Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign. Sides with Russia, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait at climate conferenceConsidering Trump announced the US would walk away from the Paris climate agreement -- which brought together the rest of the world -- it's no surprise the US continues to be an outlier on the international stage. Countries were asked to "welcome" the report put out by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which says governments around the world must take "rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society" to avoid disastrous levels of global warming. The US and the three other nations sided against "welcoming" the measure." The United States was willing to note the report and express appreciation to the scientists who developed it, but not to welcome it, as that would denote endorsement of the report," the State Department said in a statement." As we have made clear in the IPCC and other bodies, the United States has not endorsed the findings of the report," it added. At the recent G20 meeting in Argentina, which came just days after the release of that dire climate report, US diplomats insisted on noting that the US reaffirmed its intention to withdraw from the Paris accord.A clause in a communique signed by the member nations says the US "reiterates its decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, and affirms its strong commitment to economic growth and energy access and security, utilizing all energy sources and technologies, while protecting the environment." When the US Geological Survey last week announced a major discovery of oil and natural gas underneath Texas and New Mexico, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke called it a gift." Christmas came a few weeks early this year," he said. "American strength flows from American energy, and as it turns out, we have a lot of American energy." Zinke's position involves the dual and sometimes competing roles of overseeing leases to develop resources -- such as oil, natural gas, and minerals -- and preserving federal lands for wildlife and human recreational uses. The Interior Department proposed to cut protections that benefited the sage grouse, a grassland bird that lives in the Great Plains and western states, which could allow for expanded oil and drilling. The plan would remove protections on nearly 9 million acres of protected habitat. The oil industry says any impacts minimal because of improved technology and more limited footprint needed for exploration.	False
516	bbc	left_center_bias	2018-07-20	Mr Dreher says that the ESA was designed by Congress to say that "the value of life on earth is priceless" and that politicians should not have to decide whether it is "too expensive" to prevent extinction."	Who knows what a frog is worth?"	If these regulations had been in place in the 1970s, the bald eagle and the grey whale would be extinct today."	If we made those decisions you can see under different administrations we would end up protecting nothing.	Wolves, which were re-introduced in the lower 48 states, have faced criticism from ranchers and farmers who argue that they have impacted their livelihood by killing their livestock.		The cost of Trump's Endangered Species Act proposal The Trump administration has proposed changes to the Endangered Species Act (ESA), a law credited with keeping hundreds of species from going extinct. The change would eliminate automatic protections for threatened plant and animal species, and make it easier for species to be removed from the list. Wildlife conservation groups say the proposed change could have disastrous lasting effects on at-risk species. Trump officials say the change will streamline the regulatory process. The proposed change is the latest in a series of White House efforts to remove environmental regulations designed to protect vulnerable species and their habitats, as well as leave untouched some of America's most wild places. Environmentalist groups have reacted with outrage, and the Center for Biological Diversity said "these proposals would slam a wrecking ball into the most crucial protections for our most endangered wildlife"." If these regulations had been in place in the 1970s, the bald eagle and the grey whale would be extinct today." The Endangered Species Act was signed into law in 1973 by Republican President Richard Nixon and now protects more than 1,200 plant and animal species. The list of species is maintained by US Fish and Wildlife and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which oversees marine species. It has been credited with reviving bald eagle populations and bringing the Yellowstone grizzly bear back from the edge of extinction. Here are several species that could be affected by the change, or may not currently exist if it was not for the landmark law. Experts agree that arctic sea ice - which polar bears require for fishing and hunting - is shrinking, which is leading to enormous stresses on the world's largest bear species. The proposed change to the ESA includes a narrowing of the definition of "foreseeable future". The US government says they want the language clarified to "make it clear that it extends only as far as [wildlife officials] can reasonably determine that both the future threats and the species' response to those threats are probable". Environmentalists fear the new language will make it possible for government biologists to disregard the long-term effects of climate change on the environment. The polar bear could be emblematic of many species being affected by climate change, says Bob Dreher of the environmental group Defenders of Wildlife. Whether government biologists will recognise "this slow-acting but inevitable change in ecosystem because of climate change" or wait until more evidence is available is unclear, he tells the BBC. The ESA provides blanket protections to species which are categorised as either "threatened" - such as the California gnatcatcher - or "endangered". Endangered species are those likely to go extinct, while threatened species are those likely to become endangered. Under current law, both are granted "critical habitat" protections, but the Trump administration wants automatic protections for threatened species to be eliminated and, in the future, to be considered on a case by case basis. Protections for the California gnatcatcher have barred development across nearly 100,000 acres of land in the Greater Los Angeles area, according to the Los Angeles Times. If not for their current protections, their native habitat would likely become part of more urban sprawl. The sage grouse has been a candidate for protection as a threatened species for nearly a decade, but it is unclear if it will ever be added. They, as well as the dunes sagebrush lizard, have seen their territory encroached upon by human development and have seen decreasing populations in recent years. The distinctive sage grouse return to their breeding grounds, known as Leks, every year. Biologists believe some Leks can be hundreds of years old. If the sage grouse does achieve threatened status, environmentalists fear under the new Trump proposal it would be too late for them to gain the broad protections they need. Although the proposed change would only affect future creatures joining the list, Mr Dreher says that if the proposed rules had been in effect in the 1970s, animals such as wolves and bald eagles may have been extinct by now. In a significant reversal, the proposed change would eliminate language that precludes wildlife experts from considering economic impacts when determining when an organism should be listed. Wolves, which were re-introduced in the lower 48 states, have faced criticism from ranchers and farmers who argue that they have impacted their livelihood by killing their livestock. Re-introducing them to the continental US came at great cost and effort, says Mr Dreher, a former US Fish and Wildlife official. Mr Dreher says that the ESA was designed by Congress to say that "the value of life on earth is priceless" and that politicians should not have to decide whether it is "too expensive" to prevent extinction." If we made those decisions you can see under different administrations we would end up protecting nothing. Because who knows what a snail is worth? Who knows what a frog is worth?"	False
265	dailymail	questionable_source	2019-12-13	'Greta embodies the moral authority of the youth activist movement demanding that we act immediately to solve the climate crisis.	'Another wrote: 'Interesting how a leader that acts like a child is yelling at a child who acts like a leader'.	Currently chilling and watching a good old fashioned movie with a friend.	during the UN General Assembly this year.	'Greta must work on her Anger Management problem, then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend!		Donald Trump mocks teen global warming hero Greta Thunberg Global warming activist Greta Thunberg has trolled President Trump after he told the teen to 'chill' and 'work on her anger management problems'. The 16-year-old, who was named Time magazine's 'Person of The Year', updated her Twitter bio on Thursday to read: 'A teenager working on her anger management problem. Currently chilling and watching a good old fashioned movie with a friend.'Her bio was a verbatim echo of Trump's tweet about her earlier in the day, in which he reacted to news that the publication had awarded the accolade to Thunberg instead of him.'So ridiculous,' the Commander-in-chief wrote. 'Greta must work on her Anger Management problem, then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend! Chill Greta, Chill!'Thousands of Twitter users rushed to applaud Thunberg after she changed her bio to mock the President. Many praised the teenager for outmaneuvering Trump on Twitter - who is widely seen as one of the platform's most skillful and effective users. By lunchtime the hashtag #GretaOutdidTrump was trending on the social media platform, with one popular response reading: 'A 16-year old with Asperger's and non-native English speaker has better social and communications skills than the current President of the United States. And better Twitter game.'Another wrote: 'Interesting how a leader that acts like a child is yelling at a child who acts like a leader'. It's not the first time Thunberg has used her Twitter bio to deftly turn Trump's attacks back around. In September, Greta described herself as a 'very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future' after the President sarcastically said of her UN Speech: 'She seems like a very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future. So nice to see.'Meanwhile, the President insists he wasn't petty about losing out as Time magazine's person of the year. When asked Wednesday if the White House had a comment about the Commander-in-chief losing the honor to Thunberg, White House Principal Deputy Press Secretary Hogan Gidley emailed DailyMail. com: 'Huh?!?'Thunberg is the magazine's youngest-ever Person of the Year, a title that still sparks Internet curiosity one day each year despite the steep decline of magazine sales. The teen girl with Asperger's syndrome is the face of the youth climate movement, drawing large crowds with her appearances at protests and conferences since last year. Her angry accusations that world leaders are failing the younger generation have made headlines, including her shouts of 'How dare you?' during the UN General Assembly this year. An image of her staring at Donald Trump as he entered the UN quickly became a social media meme. Trump has said he doesn't believe global warming is mainly caused by humans. During the 2016 campaign he claimed it was a 'hoax' promoted by China in order to gain economic advantage over the United States. The president has since withdrawn the U.S. from the Paris Climate Treaty. Time editor-in-chief Edward Felsenthal told the Today show: 'She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year, coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement.'Politicians have mostly praised Thunberg and her movement as an important voice of her generation. Former Vice President Al Gore said Wednesday: 'Brilliant decision for @TIME to choose @GretaThunberg as its Person of the Year.'Greta embodies the moral authority of the youth activist movement demanding that we act immediately to solve the climate crisis. She is an inspiration to me and to people across the world,' Gore said. Felsenthal said Thunberg 'represents a broader generational shift in the culture,' adding: 'She embodies youth activism.'The magazine says: 'In the 16 months since, she has addressed heads of state at the U.N., met with the Pope, sparred with the President of the United States and inspired 4 million people to join the global climate strike on September 20, 2019, in what was the largest climate demonstration in human history.''For sounding the alarm about humanity's predatory relationship with the only home we have, for bringing to a fragmented world a voice that transcends backgrounds and borders, for showing us all what it might look like when a new generation leads, Greta Thunberg is TIME's 2019 Person of the Year,' the media franchise said Wednesday on its website.	False
219	npr	left_center_bias	2019-09-24	Gov.	She says typically the agency would communicate with a state privately and work out differences to encourage a cooperative rather than adversarial relationship.	The Trump administration has been picking fights with California over environmental regulations recently.	Gavin Newsom has been critical of President Trump's environmental record and challenged the administration in court.	"I just think it's so ironic that the EPA is chastising California, which has been so progressive in working towards cleaner air, more than any other place in the country," says Janet McCabe, who was an EPA official during the Obama administration and now directs Indiana University's Environmental Resilience Institute.		Trump Administration Escalates Battle Over Environmental Regulations With California The Trump administration has escalated its fight with California over environmental regulations. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Andrew Wheeler sent a letter Monday to the California Air Resources Board threatening to withdraw billions of dollars in federal highway money unless the state clears a backlog of air pollution control plans." California has the worst air quality in the United States, with 82 nonattainment areas and 34 million people living in areas that do not meet National Ambient Air Quality Standards," Wheeler wrote. California's population, topography, weather and other factors do worsen air pollution there, but the state also is widely recognized as a leader in improving air quality. Under the Clean Air Act, states that don't meet federal air quality standards are required to submit "State Implementation Plans." Wheeler says California represents a disproportionate share of the backlog of such plans." Since the 1970s, California has failed to carry out its most basic tasks under the Clean Air Act," said Wheeler. He then laid out the penalties for failing to meet federal requirements, which include losing federal highway dollars. California is expected to receive about $8 billion in fiscal years 2019 and 2020. The Trump administration has been picking fights with California over environmental regulations recently. Last week the administration said it will revoke a waiver that allows California to set stricter car emission standards.A senior EPA official said the two actions were not linked and that California is the focus now because it represents the largest share of backlogged plans. Even though other states have similar backlogs, the administration has not sent letters to them. Gov. Gavin Newsom has been critical of President Trump's environmental record and challenged the administration in court. Newsom called Wheeler's letter a "brazen political stunt." The White House has no interest in helping California comply with the Clean Air Act to improve the health and well-being of Californians. This letter is a threat of pure retaliation," Newsom says. Former EPA officials say they were surprised Wheeler sent the letter to California."I just think it's so ironic that the EPA is chastising California, which has been so progressive in working towards cleaner air, more than any other place in the country," says Janet McCabe, who was an EPA official during the Obama administration and now directs Indiana University's Environmental Resilience Institute. McCabe says it's unusual for the EPA to publicly criticize a state in this way. She says typically the agency would communicate with a state privately and work out differences to encourage a cooperative rather than adversarial relationship.	False
369	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-12-10	org.	Initiative 1631, for example, was supposed to serve as a bellwether for how similar legislation could fare across the country.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Despite the state's Democratic lean and the governor's public backing, the measure was soundly rejected in November.	Some conservatives have signed on to the idea, believing it to be a market-based approach to eliminating pollution.		Enviros Are Starting To Realize A Carbon Tax Won't Ever Happen The failure of carbon tax proposals to catch on in the U.S. — and around the world — is prompting environmentalists to give up hope of ever implementing it. Carbon fees were once considered an obvious next step in the country's multifaceted effort to reduce CO2 emissions. Congresswoman-elect Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a rising star on the left, believes a carbon tax can be one part of her sweeping "Green New Deal." Some conservatives have signed on to the idea, believing it to be a market-based approach to eliminating pollution. Even a number of major energy companies have come forward in support of charging businesses for the amount of carbon they release into the atmosphere. However, carbon tax proposals have proven unsuccessful time and time again. Initiative 1631, for example, was supposed to serve as a bellwether for how similar legislation could fare across the country. The bill — which called for a $15 fee on each metric ton of carbon emissions — was put to the test in Washington state during the 2018 midterm elections. Despite the state's Democratic lean and the governor's public backing, the measure was soundly rejected in November. It was the second time voters in the state had rejected a carbon fee. Such a proposal being rejected in a blue state doesn't bode well for activists who hope to see it implemented nationwide." f it can't pass in Washington state right now, I'm not sure that says that there's much of a pathway at this moment nationally," Washington Democratic Sen. Jeff Merkley said of the outcome. Events across the Atlantic have only worsened prospects for carbon tax supporters. In the face of unprecedented protests, the French government has decided to suspend a planned gas tax. President Emmanuel Macros had originally proposed a slew of new carbon taxes intended to wean consumers off fossil fuels and transition to electric vehicles. The price hikes, however, triggered a wave of intense riots. The protests, which have lasted for weeks, have even become deadly. One man was caught on video over the weekend losing his hand to a grenade explosion." here's been a predominant conversation in Washington, D.C., that's been led by economists and politicos that have tried to frame a carbon tax as the only way," Evan Weber, a national political director for the Sunrise Movement, said to Politico. "It's proved time and time again to be not politically popular, and we haven't even priced the policy at where economists say it needs to be. The idea that [a carbon fee is] the way out of this mess is something we need to be pushing back on." (RELATED: Keep It In The Ground Activists Stormed Trump Administration's Event At UN Meeting)Activists will instead focus on other causes near and dear to the environmental movement, such as pushing energy standards that mandate a total transition to clean and renewable energy. While many have expressed dissolution over the prospect of a carbon tax future, other green activists plan to keep charging forward with their own proposals. Supporters plan to introduce various carbon fee bills across state capitols in 2019, including Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey, Maryland and New England. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
596	TheBlaze	right_bias	2017-04-02	Global warming fail: Study finds melting sea ice is actually helping Arctic animals Proponents of the theory humans are primarily responsible for rising global temperatures long claimed wildlife are harmed significantly by global warming, and that unless mankind stops producing significant amounts of carbon-dioxide emissions, the world's animals will not be able to thrive.	This is the conclusion of researchers in the periodical, Polar Biology," the press release said.	USA Today recently declared the loss of sea ice "terrifying," but global warming skeptics have long suggested these claims are overblown when put into perspective.	t will without doubt have come to your Lordship's knowledge that a considerable change of climate, inexplicable at present to us, must have taken place in the Circumpolar Regions, by which the severity of the cold that has for centuries past enclosed the seas in the high northern latitudes in an impenetrable barrier of ice has been during the last two years, greatly abated.	"These conditions, plus the fact that the distribution of areas of melt ponds is increasing, can contribute to increased productivity in plant and animal life in the Arctic seas."		Global warming fail: Study finds melting sea ice is actually helping Arctic animals Proponents of the theory humans are primarily responsible for rising global temperatures long claimed wildlife are harmed significantly by global warming, and that unless mankind stops producing significant amounts of carbon-dioxide emissions, the world's animals will not be able to thrive. While rising temperatures have certainly put a strain on species in some parts of the world, a new study by researchers at the University of Southern Denmark suggests animals in the Arctic region are thriving as because of higher global temperatures. According to a press release touting the study's new findings, warmer conditions have produced a larger number of life-sustaining "melt ponds" in Arctic waters." elt ponds provide more light and heat for the ice and the underlying water, but now it turns out that they may also have a more direct and potentially important influence on life in the Arctic waters," stated the press release." ats of algae and bacteria can evolve in the melt ponds, which can provide food for marine creatures. This is the conclusion of researchers in the periodical, Polar Biology," the press release said. The researchers said nutrients are able to reach sea creatures in the Arctic more easily because of the melt ponds." limate change is accompanies by more storms and more precipitation, and we must expect that more nutrients will be released from the surroundings into the melt ponds," said Professor Ronnie Glud of the Department of Biology at SDU. "These conditions, plus the fact that the distribution of areas of melt ponds is increasing, can contribute to increased productivity in plant and animal life in the Arctic seas." Recent data released by scientists at NASA and the National Snow and Ice Data Center reveals sea ice in the Arctic and Antarctic regions are at their lowest recorded point since 1979, when satellite data first started estimating sea ice. About 2 million square km of Arctic sea ice are estimated to have been lost since 1979. Current data suggest about 14.28 million square km of sea ice remain. USA Today recently declared the loss of sea ice "terrifying," but global warming skeptics have long suggested these claims are overblown when put into perspective. As reported by Anthony Watts on his influential climate-change website Watts Up With That, the president of the Royal Society in London reported in 1817 significant reductions to arctic sea ice." t will without doubt have come to your Lordship's knowledge that a considerable change of climate, inexplicable at present to us, must have taken place in the Circumpolar Regions, by which the severity of the cold that has for centuries past enclosed the seas in the high northern latitudes in an impenetrable barrier of ice has been during the last two years, greatly abated. … this affords ample proof that new sources of warmth have been opened and give us leave to hope that the Arctic Seas may at this time be more accessible than they have been for centuries past, and that discoveries may now be made in them not only interesting to the advancement of science but also to the future intercourse of mankind and the commerce of distant nations."	False
32	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-11-15	As authorities assessed the extent of the damage to Venice's cultural treasures, such as St Mark's Basilica where water invaded the crypt, locals were defiant.	Actually this is a good experience.	We need a policy that looks at the climate through completely different eyes," Environment Minister Sergio Costa said Thursday.	Tourists are taking pictures but the city is suffering."	Former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi arrived for a private tour of the damage sustained to the basilica, while rival leader of the Italian right Matteo Salvini was due to drop by for the same on Friday.		Italy declares state of emergency in Venice after flood... Much of Venice was left under water this week after the highest tide in 50 years ripped through the historic Italian city (AFP Photo/Filippo MONTEFORTE )Venice (AFP) - Italy on Thursday declared a state of emergency for Venice after an exceptional tide surged through churches, shops and homes, causing millions of euros worth of damage to the UNESCO city. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said the cabinet had approved the state of emergency and ordered the immediate release of 20 million euros ($22 million) in funds for "the most urgent interventions" in the devastated city after Tuesday's flooding. Despite the emergency, tourists larked around in the flooded St Mark's Square in the sunshine, snapping selfies in their neon plastic boots and taking advantage of a respite in bad weather which has driven the high tides. Sirens warning of fresh flooding rang through the canal city early Thursday but the water level remained low compared to Tuesday's tide, the highest in 50 years. Conte, who has called the flooding "a blow to the heart of our country", met Venice's mayor and emergency services before jumping in a speed boat to visit businesses and locals affected by the tide. Residents whose houses had been hit would immediately get up to 5,000 euros in government aid, while restaurant and shop owners could receive up to 20,000 euros and apply for more later, he said. Several museums remained closed to the public on Thursday. As authorities assessed the extent of the damage to Venice's cultural treasures, such as St Mark's Basilica where water invaded the crypt, locals were defiant. Many stopped for their habitual coffees at flooded bars, drinking their espresso while standing in several inches of water. Austrian tourist Cornelia Litschauer, 28, said she felt mixed emotions seeing Venice's famous square half submerged." For the tourists it's amazing, it's something to see. But for the people who live here it's a real problem," Litschauer said, cradling her white Chihuahua Pablo." It's strange. Tourists are taking pictures but the city is suffering." The Locanda Al Leon hotel said its bookings had suffered from the international media coverage of the flood, with some guests cancelling their rooms after seeing images of Venice underwater. Under the arches of the Ducal Palace, a couple from Hong Kong posed for photos in the chilly morning sun." This (trip) was planned a long time ago so we couldn't change it," groom Jay Wong, 34, said." Actually this is a good experience. It's an adventure." Tuesday's "acqua alta," or high waters, submerged around 80 percent of the city, officials said. Only once since records began in 1923 has the water crept even higher, reaching 1.94 metres in 1966. Former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi arrived for a private tour of the damage sustained to the basilica, while rival leader of the Italian right Matteo Salvini was due to drop by for the same on Friday. French tourist Manon Gaudre, 22, said seeing Venice submerged was a "unique experience"." The damage it's causing to monuments and the people is worrying," she said, wondering if climate change was to blame. Many, including Venice's mayor, have blamed the disaster on global warming and warned that Italy -- a country prone to natural disasters -- must wake up to the risks posed by ever more volatile seasons." We need to be resilient and adapt. We need a policy that looks at the climate through completely different eyes," Environment Minister Sergio Costa said Thursday. Mayor Luigi Brugnaro has estimated the damage to Venice at hundreds of millions of euros. The Serenissima, as the floating city is called, is home to a mere 50,000 residents but receives 36 million global visitors each year.A massive infrastructure project called MOSE has been under way since 2003 to protect the city, but it has been plagued by cost overruns, corruption scandals and delays." This engineering solution that will end up costing nearly six billion euros has got to work," Transport Minister Paola De Micheli said. The plan involves 78 gates that can be raised to protect Venice's lagoon during high tides -- but a recent attempt to test part of it caused worrying vibrations and engineers discovered it had rusted.	False
711	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-06-26	Sometimes, the pot calls the kettle black.	Economist Milton Friedman, the so-called patron saint of laissez faire capitalism who popularized the belief that corporations should pursue profit and shareholder value above all, argued there is little incentive to preserve the environment without some form of government intervention."	"We oppose all of these because they end up being cronyism.	"Even Milton Friedman understood the existence of market externalities, the fact that damage to our environment is not accounted for in the free market without placing some sort of price signal."	They end up helping certain wealthy people to the disadvantage of the less fortunate."		Don't Be Fooled By The Gentler Tone Of Charles Koch's Climate-Change Denial "Obviously, if the temperature continues to go up, at some point it can be harmful or even very harmful," the billionaire Republican megadonor said during an interview last week on Freakonomics Radio. "But the question is, 'What do we do about it, about whatever risk there is?' And to me, the answer is innovation." On the face of it, that admission may seem like a shift coming from a man who, with his brother David, bankrolled a conservative movement bent on hacking away environmental regulations and helped transform the GOP into the only major political party in the developed world to deny the overwhelming evidence of manmade global warming. But, to scientists, Koch remains a climate pariah who has learned how to temper his message for audiences who don't buy into the view that industry players are somehow more credible than impartial researchers." t's just no longer credible to deny out of hand that climate change is happening or even that it's human-caused," Michael Mann, a climatologist at Penn State University and co-author of a new book on climate change denialism, told HuffPost on Monday. "So the forces of denial ― the special interests, the polluting interests ― have instead turned to a new talking point that they think they might be able to get away with." When you look at all the climate denial arguments, they're basically the flip of all that: It's not real, it's not us, it's not bad, the experts disagree or the experts are unreliable, and there's no hope, we can't fix it," Cook told HuffPost. "You expect them to be moving along that spectrum." But that reasoning ― which sounds measured compared to outright denial of observable phenomena ― has been employed for years to undermine climate science, and does not represent an evolution on the issue. The spectrum of climate science denialism, that argument included, has not changed much over the past two decades, according to a 2015 U.K. study analyzing 16,000 documents from conservative think tanks. The philosophical belief that, left alone, the free market will produce industries and technologies to curb climate change before it becomes catastrophic is flawed. Economist Milton Friedman, the so-called patron saint of laissez faire capitalism who popularized the belief that corporations should pursue profit and shareholder value above all, argued there is little incentive to preserve the environment without some form of government intervention." ou need a price on the emission of carbon if you're going to level the playing field," Mann said. "Even Milton Friedman understood the existence of market externalities, the fact that damage to our environment is not accounted for in the free market without placing some sort of price signal." The most popular solution among economists is putting a tax on carbon emissions. In February, a group of Republican elder statesmen introduced a plan for a $40 carbon tax that would be returned to taxpayers in the form of a carbon dividend. A cadre of oil and gas giants, including Exxon Mobil Corp., endorsed the proposal earlier this month. But the proposition faces dim prospects of becoming law under the Trump administration, which has vowed to pump up the oil, gas and coal industries. Booming U.S. oil production ― bolstered by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, technology ― has helped keep oil prices low since they plummeted in mid-2014. The price per barrel now hovers just above $40. Without some incentive from policymakers to invest in zero-emissions energy such as wind, solar or hydropower, the world is likely to warm well past 2 degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, by the end of the century. That temperature rise would drastically alter the climate, submerge coastal communities and could create up to 2 billion refugees." oth government policy and low-carbon technological innovations are going to be critical to keeping warming within 2C," James Leaton, research director at the U.K.-based financial think tank Carbon Tracker, told HuffPost by email. "Obviously policy and technology interact and cannot be seen in isolation ― with policy stimulating technological deployment, and rapid roll-out reducing the future level of policy required. Both can impact the relative financial attractiveness of future energy options." These policies that the U.S. government has, others have proposed or promulgated, have been just symbolic," Koch said in the interview. "We oppose all of these because they end up being cronyism. They end up helping certain wealthy people to the disadvantage of the less fortunate." Sometimes, the pot calls the kettle black. But in this case, the kettle is filled with a solution to clean up the greasy mess left behind by the pot. And the pot is a fossil fuel tycoon with a net worth roughly the size of Bulgaria's gross domestic product." t's one thing to be an ignorant fool, but it's quite something else to allow one's malicious ignorance to potentially threaten the entire planet," Mann said. "That is what is so pernicious about [Koch's] continued denial of the threat of climate change, and the extent to which they have been able to pollute our entire political discourse by using their political wealth to confuse the public and policymakers about the reality of this existential threat."	False
13	thedailycaller	right_bias	2019-04-17	org.	Thunberg even met with Pope Francis, who issued an encyclical on global warming in 2015.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	TIME 100 List Includes 16-Year-Old Climate Activist Who Says A 'Sixth Mass Extinction' Is Upon Us TIME listed Greta Thunberg, a 16-year-old climate change activist, on its list of the 100 most influential people of 2019.	The teenager warned in a high-profile speech to the United Nations last year that "we need to keep the fossil fuels in the ground" or face catastrophe.		TIME 100 List Includes 16-Year-Old Climate Activist Who Says A 'Sixth Mass Extinction' Is Upon Us TIME listed Greta Thunberg, a 16-year-old climate change activist, on its list of the 100 most influential people of 2019. Thunberg, who says she has Asperger syndrome, gained prominence for ditching school every Friday to protest outside Swedish parliament. The teenager warned in a high-profile speech to the United Nations last year that "we need to keep the fossil fuels in the ground" or face catastrophe. Thousands of students in Europe and the U.S. ditched school to demand government action on climate change in February. American student activists, led by the daughter of Democratic Minnesota Rep. Ilhan Omar, demanded a Green New Deal, the legislation sponsored by New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez." reta Thunberg saw her power in us, and we in turn see our power in her," March for Our Lives co-founder Emma González wrote of Thunberg for TIME, adding that "Greta is inspiring steadfast students and shaming apathetic adults." Climate change is our reality, and youth activists like Greta are doing everything within their power to work against it, and demand a change," González wrote. Thunberg's prominence has only grown, as has the alarm of her message. Thunberg even met with Pope Francis, who issued an encyclical on global warming in 2015. (RELATED: Another Canadian Province Boots Liberals Out Of Power Over Carbon Taxes)Environmentalists, even some climate scientists, are increasingly promoting Thunberg's actions in an effort to draw more young people into climate activism. European politicians invited Thunberg to bring her call for urgent action on global warming to lawmakers."  want you to act as if the house was on fire," Thunberg said in a speech to European Parliament Tuesday." e are in the middle of the sixth mass extinction, and the extinction rate is 10,000 times faster than what is considered normal, with up to 200 species becoming extinct every single day," said a teary-eyed Thunberg." rosion of fertile topsoil, deforestation of the rainforest, toxic air pollution, loss of insects and wildlife, acidification of our oceans, these are all disastrous trends," said Thunberg, barely able to keep her tears back. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
474	cbsnews	left_center_bias	2018-08-06	"The effect is to take away an agency's powers to deal with real-world problems."	In environmental cases, judges often must sort out who has the legal standing to challenge regulations or push for protections."	The Supreme Court now for decades has said that environmental and aesthetic interests count for standing," Buzbee said.	Writing for a divided panel, he found that this "good neighbor" rule overstepped the EPA's authority.	"The Cuyahoga River, Love Canal — when there was no environmental protection."		Environmental groups troubled by Supreme Court pick Brett Kavanaugh's record Environmental groups were not going to be happy with anyone President Donald Trump picked for the Supreme Court. But the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh has them especially worried. A conservative who would replace the more moderate Justice Anthony Kennedy, Kavanaugh has a record of slapping back Environmental Protection Agency regulations during his 12 years as a federal appeals court judge. Kavanaugh could shift the court to the right in many areas. But Kennedy was especially pivotal on environmental cases, ruling with the majority on nearly all of them over 30 years on the bench — and often siding with the environmentalists in the biggest cases. Kavanaugh has a narrower view of what environmental protections the federal government can implement. That was clear from an Associated Press review of his opinions while on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, along with other writings and speeches." It threatens to take us back to the old days," said Pat Gallagher, the legal director at the Sierra Club, recalling environmental disasters from the 1960s and '70s. "The Cuyahoga River, Love Canal — when there was no environmental protection." Kavanaugh's backers don't see him as anti-environment." His rulings in cases involving the EPA say far more about the aggressive nature of the EPA in terms of trying to stretch beyond its breaking point its mandate from Congress," said John Malcolm, vice president of the conservative Heritage Foundation's Institute for Constitutional Government. Republicans hope the Senate can confirm Kavanaugh by the time the court's next session begins Oct. 1. But that is in doubt because of delays in reviewing documents related to Kavanaugh's time in President George W. Bush's administration. In his opinions on environmental issues, Kavanaugh has often stressed the importance of policies to protect against climate change before saying that Congress, not the EPA, should create those policies. One prominent example came last year in a majority opinion that found the EPA lacks the authority to regulate hydrofluorocarbons, chemicals linked to global warming. Kavanaugh wrote: "EPA's well-intentioned policy objectives with respect to climate change do not on their own authorize the agency to regulate." William Buzbee, a Georgetown Law professor who teaches constitutional and environmental law, said Kavanaugh often rules that either Congress didn't delegate duties clearly enough to the EPA or that the agency wasn't carrying them out correctly — in contrast with a history of judges giving wide latitude to agencies to try to solve problems." It's a move that sounds like an attitude of deference and separation of power," Buzbee said. "The effect is to take away an agency's powers to deal with real-world problems." President Barack Obama relied heavily on administrative action as Republicans controlled Congress for most of his presidency and resisted passing laws that favored environmental protections over companies. Kavanaugh addressed that in the hydrofluorocarbons case: "Under the Constitution, congressional inaction does not license an agency to take matters into its own hands, even to solve a pressing policy issue such as climate change." Kavanaugh took similar approaches in two major 2012 rulings. In one, Kavanaugh dissented from the circuit, wanting to grant further review in a case in which the appeals court upheld the EPA's ability to regulate greenhouse gases. In another, Kavanaugh wrote the majority opinion to eliminate a 2011 EPA rule limiting emissions from power plants and other sources to reduce pollution in neighboring states. Writing for a divided panel, he found that this "good neighbor" rule overstepped the EPA's authority. The Supreme Court overruled Kavanaugh. In a speech last year at the American Enterprise Institute, Kavanaugh praised the late Justice Antonin Scalia for applying a principle laid out by Chief Justice William Rehnquist to an EPA case. The "major questions doctrine," he said, "is critical to limiting the ability of agencies to make major policy decisions that belong to Congress, at least unless Congress clearly delegates that authority." Still, Kavanaugh has not always ruled against environmental regulation. In 2010, he wrote the majority opinion for a divided panel when trucking groups sued the EPA over California's regulations for engines such as those that power refrigeration systems on trucks. Kavanaugh praised the agency for properly following Congress' directions in delegating that narrow area of regulation to California. In environmental cases, judges often must sort out who has the legal standing to challenge regulations or push for protections." The Supreme Court now for decades has said that environmental and aesthetic interests count for standing," Buzbee said. "My sense is they count less for Judge Kavanaugh." In a 2014 case, he wrote the unanimous opinion finding that environmental groups did not have standing to challenge an EPA decision not to tighten carbon monoxide standards. There are also cases where he found that industrial groups have standing to oppose environmental restrictions. One of those came last year, when he was on a panel that unanimously found that logging interests had standing to challenge the designation of 9.5 million acres in California, Oregon and Washington as a critical habitat for the northern spotted owl. He wrote that industry groups showed clearly that they would face economic harm if logging was banned in the area. There are exceptions in his record. Kavanaugh was part of a unanimous 2009 ruling that found road- and transportation-building groups did not have standing to challenge some EPA rules. If Kavanaugh is confirmed in time for the new court session, the first case he'd hear would deal with an environmental issue. In the case, the private owners of land used for logging in Louisiana object to their property's inclusion in the critical habitat for the dusky gopher frog, which was added to the endangered species list in 2001, when fewer than 100 were known to be in existence — all in southern Mississippi. None of the frogs has been spotted in Louisiana for more than 50 years.A federal appeals court found the land's inclusion as a critical habitat was appropriate.	False
381	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-10-08	Pielke pointed out this inconvenient data.	UN's New Report Shows There's 'Little Basis' For A Favorite Claim Of Climate Activists The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel On Climate Change's (IPCC) newly-released climate report, once again, found little to no evidence global warming caused many types of extreme weather events to increase."	(RELATED: It's The Final Chance We Have To Stop Global Warming … Until The Next Chance)When it comes to droughts, for example, the IPCC admits there is "low confidence in the sign of drought trends since 1950 at global scale.	The New York Times highlighted the IPCC's warning of "a world of worsening food shortages and wildfires, and a mass die-off of coral reefs as soon as 2040."	For example, the IPCC's report noted that "there is only low confidence regarding changes in global tropical cyclone numbers under global warming over the last four decades."		UN's New Report Shows There's 'Little Basis' For A Favorite Claim Of Climate Activists The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel On Climate Change's (IPCC) newly-released climate report, once again, found little to no evidence global warming caused many types of extreme weather events to increase." he IPCC once again reports that there is little basis for claiming that drought, floods, hurricanes, tornadoes have increased, much less increased due to" greenhouse gases, University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke, Jr. tweeted Sunday night. For example, the IPCC's report noted that "there is only low confidence regarding changes in global tropical cyclone numbers under global warming over the last four decades." Pielke pointed out this inconvenient data. Much like the IPCC's 2013 climate assessment, the new special report confirmed what Pielke and others have said for years about the relationship between global warming and extreme weather. But don't expect to hear that from many other media outlets, especially those that often cite individual weather events as evidence of man-made warming. For example, The Washington Post's write-up of the IPCC's report focused on the mainline findings — namely, that "the world is woefully off target" to keep future global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. The New York Times highlighted the IPCC's warning of "a world of worsening food shortages and wildfires, and a mass die-off of coral reefs as soon as 2040." Neither WaPo nor NYT mentioned the report's findings on extreme weather. The IPCC's new report is meant to sound the alarm on global warming ahead of the UN climate summit, which is to be held in Poland this December. Delegates are expected to make further commitments to implement the Paris climate accord that calls for limiting future warming below 2 degrees Celsius by 2100. Aside from dire predictions, however, the IPCC's new report also noted that many types of extreme weather events are not getting worse. (RELATED: It's The Final Chance We Have To Stop Global Warming … Until The Next Chance)When it comes to droughts, for example, the IPCC admits there is "low confidence in the sign of drought trends since 1950 at global scale. The report says there are "likely to be trends in some regions of the world," including increasing droughts in the Mediterranean and decreasing droughts in parts of North America. The IPCC also noted there is "low confidence due to limited evidence, however, that anthropogenic climate change has affected the frequency and the magnitude of floods." The report added that "streamflow trends since 1950 are non-statistically significant in most of the world's largest rivers." However, the report's authors warned that future warming could exacerbate extreme weather and hurt the global economy. The report's authors also claimed extreme weather had already increased, contrary to much of their own evidence." ne of the key messages that comes out very strongly from this report is that we are already seeing the consequences of 1 [degree Celsius] of global warming through more extreme weather, rising sea levels and diminishing Arctic sea ice, among other changes," Panmao Zhai, an IPCC co-chair, said in a statement issued Sunday.	False
556	breitbart	questionable_source	2018-06-15	The Council argues in favor of finding ways to "humanely stabilize population" as a means of mitigating the effects of global warming."	Apparently the six million Jews massacred during the Second World War, not to mention the other tens of millions of casualties, do not measure up to the overarching evils of climate change—at least in the minds of the Berkeley City Council.	Not only present evils, however, but future calamities are also prophesied with astounding exactitude and certainty.	The antidote to the Council's doomsday predictions are to take the world back to pre-industrial levels of CO2 emissions, the text declares, conjuring images of bearded Amish people driving about in horse-drawn carriages.	Not content with prescribing a drastic cutback in global emissions, however, the Council members forge onward to make a more insidious proposal: population control.		Williams: Berkeley Declares 'Climate Emergency' Worse Than World War II "The United States of America has disproportionately contributed to the climate and ecological crises and to preventing a transition away from fossil fuels, and Americans thus bear an extraordinary responsibility to solve the crises," the text reads. Apparently the six million Jews massacred during the Second World War, not to mention the other tens of millions of casualties, do not measure up to the overarching evils of climate change—at least in the minds of the Berkeley City Council. Droughts, famines, and diseases produced by global warming "have already killed millions of people in the Global South," the document announces, adding that the earth is "already too hot for safety and justice." The global economy's overshoot of ecological limits and, increasingly climate change, are driving a global fresh water scarcity crisis and the sixth mass extinction of species, which could devastate much of life on earth for the next ten million years," the resolution warns. To read through the text, one would think that global warming has been behind every catastrophe and uprising on the planet. Climate change "has been linked to the Syrian War, the rise of Boko Haram in Nigeria, as well as the famines, water shortages, and resulting conflict in Yemen, Somalia, and South Sudan," the document pronounces. Not only present evils, however, but future calamities are also prophesied with astounding exactitude and certainty. The collapse of the Greenland Ice Shelf, the resolution states, could result in "several billion climate refugees," or a substantial share of the entire population of the world. Climate change, population growth, and growing demand for food, energy and fresh water will incite "violent conflict over diminishing resources" by the year 2030, the document also forecasts with remarkable confidence. The antidote to the Council's doomsday predictions are to take the world back to pre-industrial levels of CO2 emissions, the text declares, conjuring images of bearded Amish people driving about in horse-drawn carriages. Humanity must "restore a safe level of greenhouse gas concentrations and global average temperatures well below today's levels and back to pre-industrial levels as quickly as possible," it states. Despite the Council's dire warnings, however, it turns out that scientists themselves are far less certain that Berkeley's elite council members. For instance, only 22 percent of the 1,862 American Meteorological Society (AMS) members surveyed in 2008 believe that "all" or a "large" amount of the damage caused by global warming could be prevented by taking measures to mitigate its effects. Moreover, the correlation between carbon dioxide emissions and climate warming seems anything but linear. Between 2002 and 2008, CO2 emissions increased from 24 billion tons to 29 billion. In that same period, the global temperature anomaly decreased from 0.62C to 0.52C. This fuzzy correlation between CO2 emissions and increase in global temperature raises the question of just what effect a radical decrease of carbon dioxide emissions would actually have on the planet. Not content with prescribing a drastic cutback in global emissions, however, the Council members forge onward to make a more insidious proposal: population control. The Council argues in favor of finding ways to "humanely stabilize population" as a means of mitigating the effects of global warming." he City of Berkeley calls on the United States of America to initiate a just national mobilization emergency effort to reverse global warming, which ends national greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible and immediately initiates an effort to safely draw down carbon from the atmosphere," the text boldly proposes. While one can only have pity on local residents who must live under the heavy boot of the unhinged Berkeley City Council, the rest of the nation can offer a collective sigh of relief that their power extends no further.	True
678	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-09-06	But they disregard some of its most important teachings when formulating policy.	An Open Letter To Senators Cruz And Cornyn Of Texas Republican politicians often evoke the Bible when it suits their purposes.	Noah's story holds powerful lessons for us today.	We have a moral responsibility to address this urgent threat.	This includes the story of Noah's Ark.	Words do not suffice in a tragedy like this. <sep> And sometimes I wonder whether any amount of evidence could convince you to act. <sep> After all, we have a surplus of evidence. <sep> Some have lost their lives. <sep> But with so many citizens of your state suffering the direct consequences of climate change, I hope you can summon the moral courage to change course. <sep> 	An Open Letter To Senators Cruz And Cornyn Of Texas Republican politicians often evoke the Bible when it suits their purposes. But they disregard some of its most important teachings when formulating policy. This includes the story of Noah's Ark. Noah's story holds powerful lessons for us today. We live in a time when it has become absolutely clear that global warming is starting to have a devastating affect on our lives. From super storms and floods like the disaster unfolding in Houston, to droughts and fires of unprecedented magnitude, the direct effects of climate change are now impossible to ignore. Rising sea levels will put whole swaths of coastal cities like Miami under water before the end of the century. Yet despite such ample evidence and warnings, the Republican Party still chooses to ignore the reality. And sometimes I wonder whether any amount of evidence could convince you to act. After all, we have a surplus of evidence. What is lacking is the political will of Republican elected officials, like you, to do anything about it. The catastrophe unfolding in Houston is yet another stark warning. People are losing their homes and their jobs. Some have lost their lives. Scientists expect monster storms like Hurricane Harvey to increase in number — and intensify in magnitude —as warmer temperatures disrupt weather systems around the world. As I write, Hurricane Irma ― a terrifying superstorm with the highest wind speeds ever recorded in the Atlantic ― is cutting a destructive path through the Caribbean. Cities like Houston and New Orleans, on the Gulf of Mexico, face the threat of severe and life-threatening impacts. We have a moral responsibility to address this urgent threat. But Republicans don't want to talk about the problem — or even admit it exists. Instead, the Republican strategy has consisted of aggressive denial of the facts coupled with staunch obstruction of any serious action to address the problem. Tragically, no industry has done more to block crucial action to address climate change than the oil industry. In fact, as Hurricane Harvey barreled towards Houston, two Harvard researchers were simultaneously releasing a report that detailed how Exxon Mobil spent decades lying to the American people about climate change. Now Exxon, along with other major oil corporations like Valero, Shell, Citgo and Phillips 66, has been forced to shut down its Houston refinery because of flooding from the storm. Port Arthur, the planned terminus of the Keystone XL pipeline, is completely under water. The executives of these oil companies are bearing witness to the boomerang effect of burning fossil fuels. They are glimpsing a future that millions of Americans will face as the climate crisis intensifies. Senators, I hope that you will take some time to reflect. Few politicians have done more to prevent action on climate change than the two of you, which I suspect may have something to do with the $5.6 million you've taken from the oil and gas industry over the years. But with so many citizens of your state suffering the direct consequences of climate change, I hope you can summon the moral courage to change course. We face an existential threat, and in the face of this, your specious economic arguments and lame, fossil fuel-endorsed excuses fall flat. We know that fighting climate change will reduce costs and create millions of jobs. We have the knowledge and technology needed to prevent future catastrophes. By doing so, we will create broad prosperity, cleaner air and water, cheaper energy for all, and, most importantly, we will save lives. Just as the evidence of crisis has made itself apparent in Texas, so has the fact that clean energy provides a better path for all made itself evident in the Lone Star State. Texas leads the nation in wind power generation, and it's on the way to becoming a solar energy powerhouse. Senators, it's time for you to join the team that is trying to do the right thing – not just in the short run, but with an eye to our shared future. The people of Texas need you to get on board with the biggest economic opportunity of the 21st century: clean energy technology that will save lives, create jobs, and protect the amazing creation we all call home. On behalf of NextGen America, please know that the people of Houston are in our thoughts and prayers. We are also fully engaged in fundraising efforts to assist our fellow citizens affected by this catastrophe. Words do not suffice in a tragedy like this. This is a time for action – action to care for our fellow citizens in the face of disaster, and action to prevent a systemic worsening of the climate crisis by heeding the warning and doing what is right.	True
725	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-04-07	The one Catholic priest and three Protestant clergy criticized Sen. Steve Daines (R-Mont.)	e cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment," said the church leaders ― the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula; the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings; and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co-Cathedral."	Church Leaders Are Begging Their State's Senator To Give Up Global Warming Denial Four Christian church leaders in Montana are urging their state's Republican senator to quit rejecting the widely accepted science behind man-made global warming.	We view science as a way to deepen our appreciation and wonder at the majesty of God's creation, including the complex, beautiful and life-sustaining planet earth.	The church leaders slammed Daines for having the "audacity" to challenge the overwhelming scientific consensus that emissions from farms and burning fossil fuels are trapping heat in the atmosphere and causing the planet to warm.	he simple moral truth is that United States is by far the world's largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it," they added. <sep> 	Church Leaders Are Begging Their State's Senator To Give Up Global Warming Denial Four Christian church leaders in Montana are urging their state's Republican senator to quit rejecting the widely accepted science behind man-made global warming. The one Catholic priest and three Protestant clergy criticized Sen. Steve Daines (R-Mont.) in an op-ed published by the Missoulian Thursday for failing to understand climate change's role in a widespread fish kill in Yellowstone National Park last summer." e cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment," said the church leaders ― the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula; the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings; and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co-Cathedral." he simple moral truth is that United States is by far the world's largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it," they added. The church leaders slammed Daines for having the "audacity" to challenge the overwhelming scientific consensus that emissions from farms and burning fossil fuels are trapping heat in the atmosphere and causing the planet to warm. Not unlike the years of public skepticism over smoking's role in lung cancer, many people still doubt the science behind global warming thanks to a decades-long campaign to seed doubt funded by companies with money at stake. Daines, who earned a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering before entering politics, received a paltry 3 percent lifetime score from the League of Conservation Voters, which ranks lawmakers by how they vote on environmental legislation. He did, however, earn a 16 percent score for last year. In 2012, he told Montana Public Radio he believes the climate is changing, but doubts how much humans are effecting it. We view science as a way to deepen our appreciation and wonder at the majesty of God's creation, including the complex, beautiful and life-sustaining planet earth.	True
91	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-09-23	twitter.	twitter.	pic.	Among their demands were the passage of the Green New Deal, additional measures to protect indigenous people's land and a broad push toward climate justice.	com/JhjVBr1hU3 — Sam Sweeney (@SweeneyABC) September 23, 2019Monday's protests come on the heels of a worldwide "climate strike" on Friday, a series of protests in multiple countries that some called the "largest climate rally ever."		Activists 'Shut Down D.C.' To Demand More Action On Climate Crisis Mark Wilson / Getty Images Climate change protesters block traffic during a protest to shut down Washington, D.C., on Sept. 23, 2019. Activists demanding a greater global response to climate change disrupted Monday morning commutes with protests in Washington, D.C. Ahead of the day's United Nations Climate Action Summit in New York, activists participated in "Shut Down D.C.," a coordinated act of civil disobedience designed to draw attention to the global climate crisis. A press release from the event's organizers said that Monday's protesters included labor organizations, the anti-war group Code Pink, Black Lives Matter and the environmental justice organization Rising Tide North America. Environmental activists gather in Washington on Monday during global climate action week. The organizers said their goal was to "shut down the center of decision-making in the U.S. to demand the government immediately ends fossil fuel production, and enforces a swift and just transition to renewable energy." Among their demands were the passage of the Green New Deal, additional measures to protect indigenous people's land and a broad push toward climate justice. Pictures and videos posted to social media on Monday morning showed protesters halting traffic at a number of Washington intersections. D.C. police identified 14 locations that were blocked at some point, according to The Washington Post.I'm in downtown DC where climate activists with Extinction Rebellion have blocked the intersection of K and 16th streets with a big sailboat that says "rebel for life." @WTOP @WTOPtraffic #ShutDownDC pic. twitter. com/NWIO1aRvM3 — Alejandro Alvarez (@aletweetsnews) September 23, 2019Climate activists are shutting down major intersections throughout DC. Interstate 395 and New York Ave is closed. pic. twitter. com/JhjVBr1hU3 — Sam Sweeney (@SweeneyABC) September 23, 2019Monday's protests come on the heels of a worldwide "climate strike" on Friday, a series of protests in multiple countries that some called the "largest climate rally ever."	False
850	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-10-12	Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, boasted that his organization and other activists are responsible for the closure of scores of "dirty power plants."	Bloomberg Gives $64 Million to Fight Trump's Ending War on Coal — 'Kills 7,500 Americans Annually' The Sierra Club distributed a press release on Wednesday announcing it had received the $64 million donation to support its Beyond Coal campaign and other organizations with the same ideology that would like to put all coal operations out of business and the American workers who depend on them out of work.	"All of this and we're just getting started.	EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt, who was one of the first Attorneys General to sue the EPA over the Clean Power Plan, is now undertaking the repeal of the Obama-era clean energy power grab.	The press release stated:Pollution from coal-fired power plants is the largest source of carbon emissions and kills 7,500 Americans annually, down from 13,000 when the Beyond Coal campaign began expanding in 2011 through support from Bloomberg.		Bloomberg Gives $64 Million to Fight Trump's Ending War on Coal — 'Kills 7,500 Americans Annually' The Sierra Club distributed a press release on Wednesday announcing it had received the $64 million donation to support its Beyond Coal campaign and other organizations with the same ideology that would like to put all coal operations out of business and the American workers who depend on them out of work. The press release stated:Pollution from coal-fired power plants is the largest source of carbon emissions and kills 7,500 Americans annually, down from 13,000 when the Beyond Coal campaign began expanding in 2011 through support from Bloomberg. To date, Bloomberg has invested over $100 million in protecting the environment and public health through its support of the Beyond Coal campaign. Since 2011, when Bloomberg Philanthropies first partnered with the Sierra Club's Beyond Coal Campaign, nearly 50 percent of the country's coal-fired power plants have announced their retirement, and deaths related to coal pollution have decreased by 42%. The press release said the new funding will be used to "maintain progress" despite the fate of the Clean Power Plan." he Trump administration has yet to realize that the war on coal was never led by Washington—and Washington cannot end it," Bloomberg said in the press release. "It was started and continues to be led by communities in both red and blue states who are tired of having their air and water poisoned when there are cleaner and cheaper alternatives available, cities and states that are determined to clean their air and reduce their costs, and businesses seeking to lower their energy bills while also doing their part for the climate." Without any federal regulations on carbon emissions, those groups have combined with market forces to close half the nation's coal-fired power plants over the past six years—and with this new grant, we aim to reach 60 percent by the end of 2020," Bloomberg said. Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, boasted that his organization and other activists are responsible for the closure of scores of "dirty power plants." Together, we have worked with local grassroots activists and partners in the nation's most vulnerable communities to secure the retirement of 259 dirty power plants and the promise of a brighter future, putting at the center of our work a transition that leaves no one behind and that demands good-paying, family-sustaining jobs for workers who depended on the fossil fuel economy," Brune said. "All of this and we're just getting started. Our movement is growing and our momentum is unstoppable. Our clean energy future is now." President Trump signed an executive order in March ordering a review of the Clean Power Plan as well as other environmental regulations. Instead of Obama's stifling energy regulations, the Trump administration will promote policies that favor American "energy dominance." EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt, who was one of the first Attorneys General to sue the EPA over the Clean Power Plan, is now undertaking the repeal of the Obama-era clean energy power grab.	False
46	foxnews	right_bias	2019-03-18	The fact is it is not.	"This is the core issue we all must face as aggressively as humanly possible."	... We have to do it ourselves."	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	The researchers added: "Some examples briefly illustrated include 'snowmaggedon' in February 2010, Superstorm Sandy in October 2012 and supertyphoon Haiyan in November 2013, and, in more detail, the Boulder floods of September 2013, all of which were influenced by high sea surface temperatures that had a discernible human component."		Bill de Blasio, pitching $10B climate change plan, blames global warming for Hurricane Sandy In a video posted to social media on Monday, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio again directly blamed climate change for 2012's deady Superstorm Sandy -- a contention that lacks scientific support - and touted his plan to spend $10 billion to fortify and "protect Lower Manhattan" against future storms. Even as local leaders warned that de Blasio's plan to construct new barriers would actually destroy the waterfront neighborhoods he says he wants to protect, de Blasio insisted his views were now mainstream among New Yorkers." After Sandy, there weren't a lot of climate change deniers left in New York City," de Blasio said directly into the camera, after reminding viewers that the storm left dozens dead and cost the city billions in economic losses. "We need to protect this city and this country, and this world, from global warming. There's no national policy to do it right now. ... We have to do it ourselves." Mayor de Blasio added in the video, which appeared on Facebook and Twitter, that the federal government also must act quickly: "We have to fight for the bigger changes, like the Green New Deal," de Blasio said. The mayor claimed that studies undertaken by his office and others has determined that if the city does not prepare for climate change, rising seas will expose 20 percent of lower Manhattan to daily flooding by 2100. However, past expert predictions on the effects of global warming have proven inaccurate at best. For example, United Nations scientists predicted that the world had only 10 years to immediately address climate change all the way back in 1989, in order to protect entire cities from destruction and a resulting flood of eco-refugees. A NASA scientist falsely predicted the same thing in 2006. Contrary to de Blasio's assertions, no study has defintively linked the existence or power of Superstorm Sandy to man-made climate change, or made the claim that such a link can be definitively established at all. Some contested studies have, however, suggested the storm may have become more intense to some degree as a result of warming sea temperatures." We suggest that it is more useful to regard the extreme circulation regime or weather event as being largely unaffected by climate change, and question whether known changes in the climate system's thermodynamic state affected the impact of the particular event," stated one paper produced by researchers at the National Center for Atmospheric Research. The researchers added: "Some examples briefly illustrated include 'snowmaggedon' in February 2010, Superstorm Sandy in October 2012 and supertyphoon Haiyan in November 2013, and, in more detail, the Boulder floods of September 2013, all of which were influenced by high sea surface temperatures that had a discernible human component." The Green New Deal backed by de Blasio has not attracted universal support even among Democrats, after the resolution's botched rollout in Congress earlier this year included the release of an official document by New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's office that promised economic security even for those "unwilling to work," as well as the elimination of "farting cows" and air travel. The Democratic mayor on Thursday first announced his plan to meet the "existential threat" of climate change, specifically by extending a section of the lower Manhattan coastline as much as 500 feet into the East River. He said the $10 billion effort to protect lower Manhattan from flooding by extending the shoreline between the Brooklyn Bridge and the Battery will be funded partly by private development if federal funds are not available. WHAT DOES TRUMP ADMIN'S OWN CLIMATE CHANGE REPORT SAY IS COMING?"If there's federal money in play, it probably looks one way," de Blasio said last week. "If there's not federal money in play, we have to get some private money into it and there has to be some development." Officials have been developing schemes to fortify New York City's waterfront since Superstorm Sandy destroyed thousands of homes and businesses in 2012. De Blasio said it will cost about $500 million to fortify most of lower Manhattan from future effects of climate change, including rising sea levels and intense precipitation, with grassy berms and removable barriers. But planners determined that protecting the lowest-lying area, including South Street Seaport and the financial district, will require adding more land over several years. De Blasio, who is contemplating joining the crowded field of 2020 Democratic presidential candidates, said the $10 billion landfill project should be supported by federal funds, but that's unlikely to happen during the administration of Republican President Donald Trump." Lower Manhattan is one of the core centers of the American economy," he said. "It's where the financial capital of the United States is. The security of lower Manhattan should be a national priority. The fact is it is not. And it's incomprehensible to me that there's no sense of urgency from the federal government." He added, "We can't afford to bury our head in the sand and that's right now what our federal government is doing." The plan to extend the coastline will go through the city's environmental review process, de Blasio said, but he hopes to avoid "the endless dragging on that usually accompanies something of this scale." CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPBut the prospect of private development on the newly built land is sure to meet resistance from downtown Manhattan community members. City Council member Margaret Chin, who represents the area, said a more resilient future "cannot be paid for by private real estate development that would destroy the waterfront neighborhoods that we are trying to protect." De Blasio announced the climate resilience plan at a news conference after previewing it in New York magazine ." This is the existential threat," de Blasio said. "This is the core issue we all must face as aggressively as humanly possible." The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False
852	Bipartisan Report	questionable_source	2017-10-05	It was a basic question asking if the lines followed each other.	With what basically amounts to a humanitarian crisis going on in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria, it cannot be ignored any longer.	However, with a Trump administration, it will be if allowed.	The truly maddening part though is that Merkley showed the American people that it's not just ignorance – it's intentional ignorance.	Merkley thanked him and then let him have it.		Senator Jeff Merkley Shreds Trump's EPA Appointee Over Global Warming Beliefs After this hurricane season, the GOP has a dose of reality they are going to HAVE to take – climate change is real, and it can and will be destructive. With what basically amounts to a humanitarian crisis going on in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria, it cannot be ignored any longer. However, with a Trump administration, it will be if allowed. Fortunately for the country and the world, there are some Democrats who will do their best to stop the Republican party from destroying the Earth with their own blatant ignorance. During a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing on Wednesday, Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR) took EPA appointee William Wehrum to task over his inability to acknowledge that greenhouse gases do have a major impact on temperature. Merkley displayed a chart, composed by NASA, that showed the relationship between rising temperatures and rising greenhouse emissions. Obviously, the chart showed that as greenhouse gas emissions go up so does the temperature. It was a basic question asking if the lines followed each other. A five-year-old could easily note that they do indeed follow each other. Wehrum tried to sleazily worm his way out of answering the simple question. Merkley interrupted Wehrum and asked him to just look at the lines. Wehrum never did answer the question. Merkley thanked him and then let him have it. He then noted NASA found no correlation between solar activity or volcanic activity; however, they did find a correlation between carbon dioxide and other global warming gases and the rising temperature of the planet. Merkley continued:For the rest of the questioning, Merkley continued to show just how woefully ignorant the officials in charge of the Environmental Protection Agency are. The truly maddening part though is that Merkley showed the American people that it's not just ignorance – it's intentional ignorance. They refuse to see it, accept being ignorant, and continue their refusal to acknowledge that climate change is real, and it will have (and already has had) devastating effects on the planet. You can watch a video of the hearing below.	False
374	foxnews	right_bias	2018-10-15	I will say this: I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars.	You know, we're talking about over a ... millions of years."	I think there's probably a difference.	But I don't know that it's man-made.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.		Trump hedges on climate change denial in wake of Hurricane Michael; says 'there is something there' President Trump on Monday once again backed off his previous claim that climate change is a hoax, but would not say whether or not he believed it was a man-made problem. Speaking at a Red Cross center in Georgia, where he was touring areas devastated by last week's Hurricane Michael, Trump said "there is something there" in response to a question on climate change from a reporter." here is something there, man-made or not," the president said, before deflecting to note that there have been previous storms that were much more intense and destructive than the recent slew of hurricanes to hit the Southeast. Trump's comments come a day after CBS aired an interview on "60 Minutes" with the president who said he doesn't want to put the U.S. at a disadvantage in responding to climate change."I think something's happening. Something's changing and it'll change back again," he said. "I don't think it's a hoax. I think there's probably a difference. But I don't know that it's man-made. I will say this: I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars. I don't want to lose millions and millions of jobs." Trump called climate change a hoax in November 2012 when he sent a tweet stating, "The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive." He later said he was joking about the Chinese connection, but in years since has continued to call global warming a hoax."I'm not denying climate change," he said in the interview. "But it could very well go back. You know, we're talking about over a ... millions of years." As far as the climate "changing back," temperature records kept by NASA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration show that the world hasn't had a cooler-than-average year since 1976 or a cooler-than-normal month since the end of 1985. Trump's comments came just days after a Nobel Prize-winning Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change issued a warning that global warming would increase climate-related risks to health, livelihoods, food security, water supply, human security and economic growth. The report detailed how Earth's weather, health and ecosystems would be in better shape if the world's leaders could somehow limit future human-caused warming. On Monday, the president said that he had heard of the recent report and that he'll "have to take a look at it." Trump added: "I want crystal clear water, I want the cleanest air on the planet." Citing concerns about the pact's economic impact, Trump said in 2017 that the U.S. will leave the Paris climate accord. The agreement set voluntary greenhouse gas emission targets in an effort to lessen the impact of fossil fuels." 'm truly an environmentalist," he said on Monday in regards to leaving the Paris Agreement. "But that doesn't mean we have to put one of our businesses out of business." The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False
611	TheBlaze	right_bias	2017-06-03	They examined the lives of billionaire businessmen Richard Branson, Elon Musk and Bill Gates, in addition to Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Hillary Clinton."	"To answer that question, Carlson said his team compared what the progressives say to how they live.	And on his show Friday, it took Carlson just 90 seconds to completely dismantle liberal outrage over President Donald Trump's decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement on climate change.	Carlson continued."	Progressives across the country and around the world expressed outrage this week over Trump's decision to withdraw from the agreement.		Watch: It takes Tucker Carlson just 90 seconds to completely destroy liberal hypocrisy on climate change When it comes to unraveling liberal hypocrisy, Fox News host Tucker Carlson is arguably the best man for the job. And on his show Friday, it took Carlson just 90 seconds to completely dismantle liberal outrage over President Donald Trump's decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement on climate change. Progressives across the country and around the world expressed outrage this week over Trump's decision to withdraw from the agreement. But many of those expressing outrage, including world famous Hollywood actors and businessmen, typically fly around the world in private jets that expel mind-boggling amounts of carbon dioxide — the exact substance climate alarmists say is the cause of climate change. Carlson explained on his show Friday that despite the fact that those upset about Trump's decision have not "bothered to explain what's actually in" the Paris agreement, "they assure us that that deal is the solution to the single most gravest threat this planet has ever faced: rising levels of atmospheric CO2." They're dead serious about that. You can tell by the outraged looks on their faces and the purple rhetoric," Carlson said. "But hold on for a minute. Can we really be sure that these people take carbon emissions seriously?"To answer that question, Carlson said his team compared what the progressives say to how they live. They examined the lives of billionaire businessmen Richard Branson, Elon Musk and Bill Gates, in addition to Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Hillary Clinton." ranson says fossil fuels are 'dangerous' and he calls Trump's decision 'America first, Earth last.' Now on the other hand, Branson owes a Desault Falcon 50EX private jet and it burns more fuel on a single flight to Maui than you're gonna go through in a lifetime of trips to the shore," Carlson explained." lon Musk, meanwhile, is mad about global warming too. Yet he flies around in a Gulfstream G6500ER. Bill Gates says he's 'deeply concerned' yet he still commutes in a $62 million bombardier BD700 global express. Can you imagine the gas milage that gets?" Carlson continued." eonardo DiCaprio says Trump's move threatens the 'livability of our planet' and yet DiCaprio flew a private jet 4,000 miles from Cannes, France, to New York to accept a climate award — and then flew back privately," Carlson went on to explain." illary Clinton tweeted that Trump's pullout was a 'historic mistake that leaves American workers and families behind.' And yet, speaking of workers and their families, there probably weren't a lot of those onboard last year when Hillary used a private jet to fly 20 miles from Martha's Vineyard to Nantucket for a fundraiser," Carlson added. Trump announced his decision to withdraw the U.S. from the climate deal, which was agreed to under former President Barack Obama, on Thursday.	True
222	thenewyorktimes	left_center_bias	2019-03-30	The conclusion?	Not necessarily.	And on that score, paper bags fare worse.	Plastic Bags, or Paper?	Making a cotton shopping bag is hardly cost-free.		Plastic Bags, or Paper? Here's What to Consider When You Hit the Grocery Store So does that mean paper bags, which degrade more easily, are a better option? Not necessarily. Climate change has become the biggest environmental issue of our time, so it's worth looking at things from an emissions standpoint. And on that score, paper bags fare worse. Even though paper bags are made from trees, which are, in theory, a renewable resource, it takes significantly more energy to create pulp and manufacture a paper bag than it does to make a single-use plastic bag from oil. Back in 2011, Britain's Environment Agency conducted a life-cycle assessment of various bag options, looking at every step of the production process. The conclusion? You'd have to reuse a paper bag at least three times before its environmental impact equaled that of a high-density polyethylene plastic bag used only once. And if plastic bags were reused repeatedly, they looked even better. Paper bags can more easily be recycled or even composted, bu t the British study found that even these actions didn't make a huge difference in the broader analysis. Unless you're reusing your paper bags a lot, they look like a poorer option from a global warming standpoint. That same British analysis also looked into reusable options, like heavier, more durable plastic bags or cotton bags. And it found that these are only sustainable options if you use them very frequently. Making a cotton shopping bag is hardly cost-free. Growing cotton requires a fair bit of energy, land, fertilizer and pesticides, which can have all sorts of environmental effects — from greenhouse gas emissions to nitrogen pollution in waterways.	False
230	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-12-06	One said the fires were "all ticking time-bombs - without rain those fires won't be put out".	PM Scott Morrison has dismissed accusations linking the crisis to his government's policies.• What could be wiped out by temperature riseHundreds of bushfire survivors and farmers converged on the nation's capital, Canberra, this week in protest.	People who cannot defend their property from approaching fires have been told they should leave immediately.	Mr Fitzsimmons said: "There is an absolute lack of moisture in the soil, a lack of moisture in the vegetation... you are seeing fires started very easily and they are spreading extremely quickly, and they are burning ridiculously intensely."	Since October, bushfires have killed six people and destroyed more than 700 homes across Australia.		Australia bushfires north of Sydney 'too big to put out' A "mega blaze" raging across a 60km (37 mile) front north of the Australian city of Sydney cannot currently be put out, fire officials have warned. The blaze across 300,000 hectares (1,150 sq m) is just an hour's drive from the nation's most-populous city. People who cannot defend their property from approaching fires have been told they should leave immediately. Since October, bushfires have killed six people and destroyed more than 700 homes across Australia. The severity of the blazes so early in the fire season has caused alarm, and prompted calls for greater action to tackle climate change.• How are animals faring in the fires?Fires have also raged across Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. What's the latest on the ground?Several fires have combined to form the mega blaze north of Sydney, although more than a dozen locations are affected across New South Wales. At one point on Friday, nine fires had been raised to emergency level warnings, although these had decreased markedly amid a brief respite in conditions later in the day. The north Sydney blazes were sending black fumes across the city, causing a rise in medical problems. New South Wales Rural Fire Service (RFS) deputy commissioner, Rob Rogers told ABC: "We cannot stop these fires, they will just keep burning until conditions ease, and then we'll try to do what we can to contain them." He said the 60km stretch from Hawkesbury to Singleton was "just fire that whole way". The RFS website listed five fires roughly in a line from Nullo Mountain to Wollombi as out of control at 05:00 local time on Saturday (18:00 GMT Friday), with another out of control at Green Wattle Creek, south-west of Sydney. Video footage from the Orangeville area showed firefighters running from a wall of fire and the Walkabout Wildlife Park has evacuated hundreds of animals. The Bureau of Meteorology (BOM) also said that "some fires were too big to put out". Fire officials in Ingleburn warned: "If your property is not prepared for the bushfire season and you're not sure you are able or capable of defending your property if a fire approaches you need to leave straight away." Firefighters from Canada were briefed in Sydney on Friday and will be deployed across New South Wales over the weekend, to be joined by teams from the US. There appears to be little respite. RFS founder and former commissioner, Phil Koperberg, told the Sydney Morning Herald: "People are nervous and they have a right to be... the worst is yet to come". Tuesday is the next big concern, with temperatures inland of Sydney likely to reach 40C plus. Some firefighters have expressed concern that volunteer numbers might not be enough and that there are inadequate water supplies. One said the fires were "all ticking time-bombs - without rain those fires won't be put out". Sydney may be blanketed in smoke for weeks, if not months, RFS Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons said. Is this fire season particularly bad?It hasn't come close to the fatalities of 2009, when nearly 200 people died, but the scale of the damage has been huge.• How bad is bushfire smoke for health?More than 1.6 million hectares of land have burned in New South Wales alone. The season has hit earlier than normal and has been exacerbated by drought conditions. Mr Fitzsimmons said: "There is an absolute lack of moisture in the soil, a lack of moisture in the vegetation... you are seeing fires started very easily and they are spreading extremely quickly, and they are burning ridiculously intensely." The BOM says that climate change has led to an increase in extreme heat events and raised the severity of other natural disasters, such as drought. Last week, the bureau noted that NSW had endured its driest spring season on record. It also warned that Australia's coming summer was predicted to bring similar conditions to last year's - the nation's hottest summer on record.• Australia may see 50C days 'in decades'The government has been criticised over its efforts to address climate change. PM Scott Morrison has dismissed accusations linking the crisis to his government's policies.• What could be wiped out by temperature riseHundreds of bushfire survivors and farmers converged on the nation's capital, Canberra, this week in protest. One woman displayed the charred remains of her home outside Parliament - on which she had written: "Morrison, your climate crisis destroyed my home."	False
443	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-10-27	"The best way, from a security perspective, is to bolster the resilience of those countries so you reduce the likelihood of instability, reduce the likelihood of conflict and reduce the likelihood of displacement that might force outward migration."	That worsens the violence that many cite as a main reason for fleeing northward.	Trump's Military Response To Migrant Caravan Foreshadows A Dark Long-Term Climate Policy GUILLERMO ARIAS via Getty Images A child in the caravan of roughly 7,200 Central American migrants headed north to the U.S.-Mexico border.	quasi-fascist policy of fear-mongering about immigration and corresponding militarization of the border is clearly the major thrust of Trump's response to the mounting impacts of climate chaos," said Ashley Dawson, author of Extreme Cities: The Peril and Promise of Urban Life in the Age of Climate Change.	Under those conditions, more than 1 billion people globally could be forced to flee their homes by 2050, and 2 billion by 2100.		Trump's Military Response To Migrant Caravan Foreshadows A Dark Long-Term Climate Policy GUILLERMO ARIAS via Getty Images A child in the caravan of roughly 7,200 Central American migrants headed north to the U.S.-Mexico border. Now ― with the White House poised to gut the federal government's only two major rules to reduce planet-warming emissions, and Trump threatening to cut aid to drought- and violence-afflicted Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador ― critics say the administration's strategy to deal with climate change is taking shape, frustrating national security experts who say hunkering down and militarizing borders will do little to mitigate global warming's threats."  quasi-fascist policy of fear-mongering about immigration and corresponding militarization of the border is clearly the major thrust of Trump's response to the mounting impacts of climate chaos," said Ashley Dawson, author of Extreme Cities: The Peril and Promise of Urban Life in the Age of Climate Change. Despite the repeated dismissals of climate science by the president and many of his top advisers, the Trump administration officially forecasts that the planet is expected to warm by 7 degrees Fahrenheit by the end of the century ― a projection buried in a 500-page environmental impact statement in August. That's roughly double the temperature scientists say will cause cataclysmic drought, storms and sea level rise, and roughly four times the warming the planet has already experienced since the pre-industrial era. Under those conditions, more than 1 billion people globally could be forced to flee their homes by 2050, and 2 billion by 2100. Tropical regions ― where many of the roughly 20,000 to 40,000 migrants who crossed the U.S. southern border each month in the past year came from ― are expected to be hit the hardest. It's difficult to draw a direct line between climate change and a migrant's decision to leave home, and neither the United Nations nor nearly any other major countries currently offer legal avenues for asylum seekers fleeing the effects of global warming. New Zealand became the first country late last year to create a special status for climate refugees with 100 annual visas as low-lying island nations in its corner of the Pacific face existential threat of sea-level rise. On the opposite side of the ocean, a hotter climate is expected to parch once fertile lands. In an email, Jennifer Francis, a Rutgers University climate researcher, said "it's likely that increasing drought in Central America is making it more difficult for farmers there to make a living." The President had willing partners in Congress and could have worked on immigration, border security, DREAMers and all that," Joseph Majkut, director of climate policy at the Niskanen Center, a libertarian think tank, said in an email. "But he didn't take advantage of that opportunity. Having missed the chance to seek actual reforms, we now get a militaristic and hasty response to a predictable stress." Climate change [is] contributing to make nations unstable, both nations in our neighborhood and others abroad," said Femia, whose Washington-based policy institute includes former top national security advisers. "The best way, from a security perspective, is to bolster the resilience of those countries so you reduce the likelihood of instability, reduce the likelihood of conflict and reduce the likelihood of displacement that might force outward migration." That doesn't seem likely in the near term. The president attempted to cut funding for United States Agency for International Development by 33 percent this year, though bipartisan support for the federal government's dedicated aid agency staved off the proposal. By deporting hundreds of thousands of Central Americans from the United States, the administration, like the Obama administration before it, is bolstering gang recruitment in countries like El Salvador, according to a December report from the International Crisis Group. That worsens the violence that many cite as a main reason for fleeing northward.	False
28	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-06-20	Azna Lecuyer of the French branch of Ende Gelaende agrees that "we feel a passion for actions of civil disobedience, especially among young people."	Lecuyer stresses that "non-violence is part of our action consensus: it is forbidden to harm the security forces, site employees or to damage the equipment".	While school students have held "Fridays for Future" rallies for months, protesters of the "Extinction Rebellion" group launched in Britain have risked arrest with more confrontational protests.	They advise them to say as little as possible while in custody.	Tadzio Mueller, a German organiser of the movement, argues that "massively breaking the rules ... is the only thing that works to prevent the status quo in the face of climate chaos".		Europe's growing 'climate civil disobedience' movement... Thousands of European activists plan to blockade a large German lignite mine this week, the latest protest of a growing "climate civil disobedience" movement. While school students have held "Fridays for Future" rallies for months, protesters of the "Extinction Rebellion" group launched in Britain have risked arrest with more confrontational protests. From next Thursday to Monday, Europe's veteran "Ende Gelaende" (EG) anti-coal activists will hold their sixth large-scale blockade of an open-pit coal mine and power plants run by German energy giant RWE. The group's online "action consensus" says: "In view of the urgency of the climate crisis, we consider it necessary and appropriate to go one step further: from public protest to civil disobedience." Here is a look at this growing form of environmental activism. Tadzio Mueller, a German organiser of the movement, argues that "massively breaking the rules ... is the only thing that works to prevent the status quo in the face of climate chaos". Azna Lecuyer of the French branch of Ende Gelaende agrees that "we feel a passion for actions of civil disobedience, especially among young people." This is reflected in demand for training courses everywhere and by the very rapid rise in skills of new activists." Lecuyer stresses that "non-violence is part of our action consensus: it is forbidden to harm the security forces, site employees or to damage the equipment". During past protests at the nearby Hambacher Forest, police and RWE company staff have accused the most militant protesters of having hurled rocks or molotov cocktails. The Ende Gelaende movement has distanced itself from those environmental militants and any acts of violence. The EG activists—dressed in trademark white overalls symbolising the toxicity of fossil fuels—plan to march from their protest camp to the Garzweiler mine about 10 kilometres (six miles) away. They hope to evade police roadblocks and enter the vast open-pit mining area to occupy strategic locations and "technical infrastructure such as rails, access roads and excavators". Meanwhile they plan to organise in so-called affinity groups of up to 10 people of similar physical fitness—and a willingness to be arrested for trespassing and other offences. Before the protest, activists attend training workshops to learn non-violent resistance techniques such as locking their arms and legs in formation with names such as "the little train" or "the turtle". What risks do protesters take?Occupying an industrial site is illegal under German law, and volunteer legal advisers are on hand to support activists before and after they are arrested. They advise them to say as little as possible while in custody. Other risks lurk at the Garzweiler site. A vast moonscape-like terrain where the surface can be unstable after rain or drought, it is criss-crossed by high-power cables and dug up by building-sized excavators. When breaking up protesters' blockades, German police have in the past employed high-powered water jets and pepper spray. Lecuyer says that some activists experience a form of "trauma ... due to the high emotions from stress and excitement and the physical effort, because you have to walk for miles in groups to the target, pass police roadblocks, sometimes under water cannon or pepper spray, and then hold the blockade".	False
823	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-10-05	This fudge isn't perfect – and it still doesn't solve the problem of the EPA's Obama-era Endangerment Finding on carbon dioxide which ludicrously treats a harmless, life-enhancing trace gas as an existential threat.	This was part of a wider war on the Green Blob which has also involved withdrawing from the UN's Paris climate accord.	Even within his own cabinet, there are numerous siren voices – Javanka; Secretary of State Tillerson; Economics advisor Gary Cohn – urging Trump to maintain his predecessor's disastrous green policies.	Note, though, that the CPP is not being scrapped altogether but rather being delayed indefinitely through judicial fudge.	Some conservative groups have urged the EPA to scrap the CPP without replacing it, effectively ending U.S. regulation of carbon emissions.		Delingpole: Trump to Repeal and Replace Obama's 'Stupid' and 'Job Killing' Clean Power Plan The Trump administration will repeal the Clean Power Plan, the centerpiece of President Barack Obama's effort to fight climate change, and will ask the public to recommend ways it could be replaced, according to an internal Environmental Protection Agency document.  The draft proposal represents the administration's first substantive step toward rolling back the plan, which was designed to curb greenhouse gas emissions from the power sector, after months of presidential tweets and condemnations of Mr. Obama's efforts to reduce climate-warming pollution. But it also lays the groundwork for new, presumably weaker, regulations by asking for the public and industry to offer ideas for a replacement. In 2016, when it launched the plan at Obama's behest, the EPA declared that the Clean Power Plan was a vital, cost-effective way of combating climate change which would ultimately benefit the U.S. consumer. However, an independent study by the Manhattan Institute showed this to be nonsense. The EPA's cost benefit analysis was fallacious; it had drastically underestimated the costs – which it claimed would be $9 billion a year, but which the Manhattan Institute showed would be closer to $40 billion; and it would make no measurable difference to climate change. Hence Trump's election trail promise and executive order in March this year requesting EPA chief Scott Pruitt to rescind the CPP. This was part of a wider war on the Green Blob which has also involved withdrawing from the UN's Paris climate accord. Had it been implemented the CPP would have required U.S. power plants to lower their carbon emissions by 2030 to 32 percent below 2005 levels. Since carbon dioxide is a natural by product of almost every industrial process, the knock on damage to the U.S economy in the form of lost jobs and higher energy prices would have been huge. Note, though, that the CPP is not being scrapped altogether but rather being delayed indefinitely through judicial fudge. Janet McCabe, who headed the EPA's Office of Air and Radiation under Obama, said an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking could take years – meaning the replacement for CPP could be a long way off. "It certainly will draw the process out," she said. Some conservative groups have urged the EPA to scrap the CPP without replacing it, effectively ending U.S. regulation of carbon emissions. But some industry groups want a replacement to give utilities regulatory certainty and avoid possible lawsuits by environmental groups. So while it's good news that the CPP will probably never be implemented, the bad news is how difficult it is even for a determinedly skeptical president like Trump to unravel environmental regulation. Even within his own cabinet, there are numerous siren voices – Javanka; Secretary of State Tillerson; Economics advisor Gary Cohn – urging Trump to maintain his predecessor's disastrous green policies. This fudge isn't perfect – and it still doesn't solve the problem of the EPA's Obama-era Endangerment Finding on carbon dioxide which ludicrously treats a harmless, life-enhancing trace gas as an existential threat. But at least it's a step in the right direction: the green blob just lost another of its tentacles.	False
242	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-08-30	"When do we want it?	"Climate Justice."	We are not here to guilt individuals that forgot to recycle a cup last week," another young woman said.	"It is not a coincidence.	The speaker listed the group's demands, which will be presented at the U.N. summit: "A just and livable world" where "fossil fuels are left out of every decision" around the world; 100 percent renewable energy around the globe; and "holding polluters accountable" for causing the "climate crisis."		Greta Thunberg Mum as Climate Activist Proclaims 'We Cannot Live in a World that Is Melting' "We cannot live in a world that is burning," one young woman said, "that is melting." Climate change is already affecting millions of people," another young woman claimed. "This could lead to mass extinction." We are not here to guilt individuals that forgot to recycle a cup last week," another young woman said. "We are here to hold cowardice [sic] politicians accountable who have caused this damage by turning their heads in fear." Those 12 years left (to stop carbon emissions)," a young woman yelled. "Is now down to 10 years and five months." One young woman said she wanted to acknowledge Hurricane Dorian, a storm that is still in the Atlantic Ocean and is not expected to make landfall somewhere in Florida until early next week." t is ravaging the coast of Florida," the girl said. "It is not a coincidence. It is a direct impact of the climate crisis." The youths held signs that read "Greed Kills," "Help My Home is on Fire," and "527 Years of Indigenous Resistance" and chanted in between speeches phrases such as:"What do we want?" "Climate Justice." "When do we want it? Now." No more coal, no more oil, keep your carbon in the soil," and "Waters are rising, people are dying."A speaker said that the protest was not the goal of the movement by a "catalyst" for action, including a planned "global climate strike" on September 20, just three days ahead of a U.N. climate summit that is expected to draw leaders from around the world and where Thunberg will be a special guest and speaker. The speaker listed the group's demands, which will be presented at the U.N. summit: "A just and livable world" where "fossil fuels are left out of every decision" around the world; 100 percent renewable energy around the globe; and "holding polluters accountable" for causing the "climate crisis." The publicist for the New York City protest refused to speak with Breitbart News when an inquiry was made about Thunberg's appearance and about Alexandria Villaseñor, a 14-year-old who claims she has been protesting every Friday at the United Nations for 38 weeks. Reporters on the scene were kept from interviewing Thunberg during the protest. Thunberg gained international attention when she cut school a year ago to appear before the Swedish parliament where she called on young people around the world to cut school every Friday to protest climate change. It is not clear how many students in New York are still on summer break or skipped classes, but Thunberg's publicity team announced that the 16-year-old is taking a "sabbatical" from her high school studies to "concentrate on her activism." After attending the U.N. summit, Thunberg and her father will travel in the United States, Canada, and Mexico before attending a second U.N. climate change summit in Chile in December. Thunberg has said she is not sure how she will get back to Sweden, and no details have been released on how she will travel around the North and South American continents without the help of fossil-fuel-powered transportation.	True
722	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-09-18	As the CEO of one of America's historically coal dependent utilities, Tom Fanning of the Southern Company, says, "You can't keep waves off the beach."	Let's begin with "bringing back coal."	America Is Doubling Down On Climate Progress The American political conversation about climate is, indeed, scary and depressing.	(The Nevada legislature went for 40 percent but has not yet been able to overturn a similar veto.	And the decarbonization of the American economy – the real economy, not the fake news economy – shows it's still true.		America Is Doubling Down On Climate Progress The American political conversation about climate is, indeed, scary and depressing. But the decarbonization of the real U.S. economy – as opposed to the cardboard, fossil fuel-handicapped White House version – continues. Indeed, decarbonization is accelerating, giving me confidence that in a year or so, it will be clear to everyone that the U.S. is on track to meet and perhaps exceed its (inadequate) 2025 Paris objective, cutting emissions 26-28 percent. That goal requires reducing emissions by 1,800 million tons of CO2. At the end of 2016, the U.S. was almost halfway – emissions down 850 million tons, or 13 percent. This progress was led by the utility sector, where efficiency, renewables and natural were replacing coal so fast that power sector carbon was down 25 percent. The world rightfully worries when they hear Donald Trump proclaim he is going to bring back coal and watch the administration and the Republican Congress try to roll back such common sense requirements  limits on the wasteful flaring and leaking of methane from oil and gas fields. But Trump's promise to have America withdraw from the Paris climate agreement has sparked a stunning wave of climate leadership from U.S. cities, states and businesses, a wave that is still building, but by the time it crests may more than make up for Trump's stubborn foot-dragging. Let's begin with "bringing back coal." Since Trump was elected, no new coal plants have been announced or opened; 10 plants with 5,600 megawatts instead have announced they will shut down. West Virginia's largest utility won't expand coal generation because it can't find customers for coal power; CSX, a leading coal hauling railroad, thinks coal is going away so fast that it has stopped replacing coal rail cars. Now, the Sierra Club has estimated that additional coal plants whose retirement have already been announced would cut emissions about 160 million tons. Closing vulnerable plants, facilities that no longer make economic sense to keep operating, could avoid another 275 million tons. If present trends continue, the club also documented that the U.S. could triple renewable electricity; overall, the utility sector should be emitting 500 million tons of carbon less in 2025 than it was just last year. While coal fades, state governments representing almost 60 percent of the American economy are racing forward. In January, California released its plan to cut its emissions by 40 percent by 2030 and went on to extend its cap and trade program for another decade, until 2030 – this time with support for the first time from the oil industry! California is also on the verge of requiring 100 percent of its power to come from renewables. Overall, a dozen states are debating increasing their reliance on renewable power. Maryland just established a 25 percent renewable power goal, overriding the veto of a Republican governor. (The Nevada legislature went for 40 percent but has not yet been able to overturn a similar veto.)The 15 "early adaptor" states in the Climate Alliance will report this week that they are already on track to reduce their 2025 emissions by 24-29 percent. And some of America's most Republican, climate-skeptical states – Oklahoma, Kansas, North Dakota and even Texas, are steadily replacing coal with renewables – for economic reasons. These don't usually get counted in reporting on bottom up climate action – but they have a huge positive impact on emissions. Whether their state legislatures and governors are leading on climate or not, America's cities, where most of our climate pollution originates, are embracing a decarbonized future. In June, when Trump promised to pull out of the Paris agreement, 125 cities told the world "we are still in" the Paris agreement. Today, only three months later, the number has ballooned to 238. The U.S. Conference of Mayors, representing more than 1,000 of America's largest cities, voted unanimously to endorse the goal of 100 percent renewable power – and since Trump's election, the number of U.S. cities with 100 percent policies has mushroomed – more than 40 cities are now committed individually, and five have hit that target!But government is not alone. The private sector, where companies are increasingly competing with each other to succeed in the carbon-free economy of the future, is  making Trump's climate-denial braggadocio increasingly irrelevant. The Mars Candy Company recently committed a billion dollars to ensure that it's operations and supply chain would reduce their climate impact by 67 percent by 2050. The number of companies who have signed the pledge of support for the Paris agreement has almost doubled, from 906 in June to 1,729 this week.  And global firms will impact the U.S. climate footprint. VW announced a few days ago that it will offer electric versions of all its models – entering the competition against current global EV leader, U.S.-based Tesla, which delivered its first Model 3 in July. It is true, the Trump administration is struggling to hold back the future, with appalling decisions like EPA's recent announcement that it would delay cleaning up toxic water pollution from coal power plants for two years. But the courts are steadily shredding much of this; the conservative 10th circuit just ruled that Trump must consider climate impacts before issuing new coal leases on federal lands. As the CEO of one of America's historically coal dependent utilities, Tom Fanning of the Southern Company, says, "You can't keep waves off the beach." King Canute knew this. And the decarbonization of the American economy – the real economy, not the fake news economy – shows it's still true. The world can see and measure – America is still in.	False
828	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-06-01	We should have higher taxes on the things that science says are probably bad for us than those that are probably good for us.	This is analogous to taxing cigarettes and alcohol more than fruits and vegetables, which everybody agrees makes sense.	The problem is the age-old tragedy of the commons.	The common good being consumed is atmospheric and oceanic carbon capacity, which currently has a price of zero.	New York investors, including Goldman Sachs, have made big bets on the preservation of the Paris deal, according to The Huffington Post.		Climate Billionaire Elon Musk Quits Donald Trump's Advisory Council The shift in government policy likely will force Musk and his investors to revamp his sprawling business empire, which relies on government subsidies and on preferences for solar-energy over natural fuels. For example, the Los Angeles Times reported in 2015 that Musk's battery factory in Reno, Nevada is reported to have enjoyed roughly $1.3 billion in state subsidies, and his SolarCity company has gotten $1.5 billion from federal solar-regulations. In California, the state legislature allowed his Tesla Motors to sell more than $500 million worth of government-granted carbon energy credits, said the Los Angeles Times, and the state's anti-pollution agency allows the owners of battery-operated cars to use low-traffic "high occupancy" lanes in gridlocked Los Angeles. Musk's solar-energy company in New York state has reportedly gained $1 billion in near-term and short-term investment from Democratic politicians said the newspaper. However, those financial gains for Musk depend on higher energy taxes for the nation's established manufacturing sectors, especially in Midwest states. Breitbart described the economic impact of the climate agreement:Unsurprisingly, Musk is a strong advocate for growing "carbon taxes" on natural fuels. In a January 2017 interview with Gizmodo, Musk declared:CO2 [carbon diooxide] isn't exactly pollution, but it does cause warming and slight acidification of water if very large quantities are dug from deep underground and added to the surface cycle. The problem is the age-old tragedy of the commons. The common good being consumed is atmospheric and oceanic carbon capacity, which currently has a price of zero. This results in an error in market signals and far more CO2 is generated than should be. We won't ever go to zero CO2, but the rate over time should be dropped far below what it is today. Start low and increase it until the desired outcome is achieved. This can be offset by a reduction in other taxes, like sales tax, which is quite regressive. This is analogous to taxing cigarettes and alcohol more than fruits and vegetables, which everybody agrees makes sense. We should have higher taxes on the things that science says are probably bad for us than those that are probably good for us. New York investors, including Goldman Sachs, have made big bets on the preservation of the Paris deal, according to The Huffington Post.	False
595	Drudge Report	right_bias	2017-09-26	"The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California."	For example, California could use vehicle registration rules or control the vehicles that can access state highways, she said."	"We're looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward."	"I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get to that result."	The Association of Global Automakers said consumers must be able to afford the cleaner cars that California says are needed to meet its climate goals.		California Considers Following China With Combustion-Engine Car Ban... The internal combustion engine's days may be numbered in California, where officials are mulling whether a ban on sales of polluting autos is needed to achieve long-term targets for cleaner air. Governor Jerry Brown has expressed an interest in barring the sale of vehicles powered by internal-combustion engines, Mary Nichols, chairman of the California Air Resources Board, said in an interview Friday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. The earliest such a ban is at least a decade away, she said. Brown, one of the most outspoken elected official in the U.S. about the need for policies to combat climate change, would be replicating similar moves by China, France and the U.K." 've gotten messages from the governor asking, 'Why haven't we done something already?'" Nichols said, referring to China's planned phase-out of fossil-fuel vehicle sales. "The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California." Embracing such a policy would send shockwaves through the global car industry due to the heft of California's auto market. More than 2 million new passenger vehicles were registered in the state last year, topping France, Italy or Spain. If a ban were implemented, automakers from General Motors Co. to Toyota Motor Corp. would be under new pressure to make electric vehicles the standard for personal transportation in the most populous U.S. state, casting fresh doubts on the future of gasoline- and diesel-powered autos elsewhere. The Association of Global Automakers said consumers must be able to afford the cleaner cars that California says are needed to meet its climate goals. The trade association represents Toyota, Honda Motor Co. and other overseas carmakers in the U.S." We have been working with California on intelligent, market-based approaches to emissions reductions beyond 2025, and we hope that this doesn't signal an abandonment of that position," Global Automakers Chief Executive Officer John Bozzella said in a statement. California has set a goal to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 80 percent from 1990 levels by 2050. Rising emissions from on-road transportation has undercut the state's efforts to reduce pollution, according to Next 10, San Francisco-based non-profit." o reach the ambitious levels of reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, we have to pretty much replace all combustion with some form of renewable energy by 2040 or 2050," Nichols said. "We're looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward." California has the authority to write its own pollution rules, which dates back to the 1970 Clean Air Act. Those rules are underpinned by waivers granted by the Environmental Protection Agency. Nichols said the state would likely take a different legal route to enable a possible ban rather than use an EPA waiver, since the Trump administration would be unlikely to approve one. For example, California could use vehicle registration rules or control the vehicles that can access state highways, she said." e certainly wouldn't expect to get a waiver for that from EPA," Nichols said. "I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get to that result." Read more: California Sets Demands for Auto-Emission Talks With TrumpChina will likely order an end to sales of all polluting vehicles by 2030, the chairman of electric-carmaker BYD Co. said Thursday. France and the U.K. have announced 2040 as their end date for sales of fossil fuel-powered cars.A ban for California could also still be decades away from implementation, and just how far out remains to be seen, Nichols said." here are people who believe, including who work for me, that you could stop all sales of new internal-combustion cars by 2030. Some people say 2035, some people say 2040," she said. "It's awfully hard to predict any of that with precision, but it doesn't appear to be out of the question."	False
215	thehill	left_center_bias	2019-01-20	Its findings aligned with those of the broader scientific community.	Trump dismissed the report, saying he did not believe its findings and disputing that climate change is man-made.	Be careful and try staying in your house," Trump advised.	Wouldn't be bad to have a little of that good old fashioned Global Warming right now!	He sent similar tweets in 2017 and 2011.		Trump cites massive winter storm to mock global warming President Trump Donald John TrumpSunday shows preview: Shutdown negotiations continue after White House immigration proposal Rove warns Senate GOP: Don't put only focus on base Ann Coulter blasts Trump shutdown compromise: 'We voted for Trump and got Jeb!' MORE in an early morning tweet on Sunday suggested global warming could be helpful as a massive snowstorm dropped several inches of snow and sent temperatures plunging across the Midwest and swaths of the Northeast United States." Be careful and try staying in your house," Trump advised. "Large parts of the Country are suffering from tremendous amounts of snow and near record setting cold. Amazing how big this system is. Wouldn't be bad to have a little of that good old fashioned Global Warming right now!"The president, who has repeatedly cast doubt on the existence and effects of climate change, has regularly cited significant winter storms to mock the concept of global warming. He sent similar tweets in 2017 and 2011. The current winter storm prompted the governor of Kansas to declare a state of emergency, canceled thousands of flights and dumped more than a foot of snow across most of upstate New York. Falling temperatures were expected to create icy surfaces, further increasing the risk of travel. Trump and others who deny climate change have cited cold temperatures and winter storms to dismiss global warming, but experts have noted there is a difference between the climate and weather.A government report issued late last year concluded that climate change could cost the United States billions of dollars annually within decades if greenhouse gases aren't dramatically reduced and could worsen environmental disasters like wildfires and flooding. Its findings aligned with those of the broader scientific community. The study, mandated to be released every four years under the National Climate Assessment from the multiagency Global Change Research Program, was conducted by hundreds of government and external scientists. Trump dismissed the report, saying he did not believe its findings and disputing that climate change is man-made.	False
533	bbc	left_center_bias	2018-02-09	But that is where reality tempers the possibilities.	But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	Utility-scale solar farms - massive projects that supply power to the gird - such as the one in Ramanathapuram need to be re-evaluated, especially if they are to run in areas where water is scarce.	In June 2017, villagers in Tamil Nadu's parched Ramanathapuram district were protesting against a solar power plant - they alleged that more than 200,000 litres of scarce water was being extracted illegally from bore wells to clean the 250,000 solar modules daily.	On this count too, Tamil Nadu has a long way to go.		Viewpoint: The Indian state to become a global leader in clean energy India's southern state of Tamil Nadu is poised to become a global leader in wind power, according to a new report. But first the state must overcome its addiction to coal, writes Nityanand Jayaraman. The report - by the US-based Institute of Energy Economics and Financial Analysis - predicts that by 2027, more than half of Tamil Nadu's power will be generated by "zero emissions" technologies - notably solar and wind. The state's current capacity to generate wind power - 7.85 gigawatts (GW) - is already impressive considering it is higher than that of Denmark or Sweden. But the report estimates that it could double over the next decade, and that solar installations too could increase six-fold to reach 13.5GW. If that happens, clean, renewable energy would account for 67% of Tamil Nadu's capacity, which could revive the state's debt-ridden utility. But in order to harvest that potential, Tamil Nadu needs to transform its power sector. Tamil Nadu's population is three times that of Australia and its per capita GDP is on a par with Sri Lanka and Ukraine. It could prove to be an example of how emerging economies can grow while slashing their carbon emissions. Assuming Tamil Nadu's GDP will grow at an annual rate of 7%, the report suggests that much of this growth can be driven by renewables. Installation and operating costs for wind and solar power have dropped low enough to compete with established but dirty sources of power such as coal. But that is where reality tempers the possibilities. The report argues that not only does Tamil Nadu not need coal or nuclear power, but that these projects are financially fraught. Electricity from new coal power plants is likely to be twice as expensive as solar or wind power. But, despite the bleak financial prospects, Tamil Nadu currently has 22.5GW of coal power plants in the pipeline. Pursuing these ventures will weaken the state utility's finances and its ability to invest in smarter, cleaner alternatives. There are other challenges too. Wind power can be generated only from May to October. Even during those months, production cannot reach its peak because the state does not have a large enough grid to convey excess electricity to other states. So, they will have to slow down generation from other sources. This also means the state is unable to import cheap power from other states during the remaining seven months when wind power is not feasible. Work is afoot to change this but its not guaranteed that the improvements will ensure that the grid can cope with the predicted generation. Integrating power from seasonal sources like wind requires a smart grid - one with a sophisticated system of supply and management that can adjust to variations in demand. On this count too, Tamil Nadu has a long way to go. But the biggest limiting factor for the state is likely to be water. Between climate change and reckless exploitation and pollution of rivers, streams and lakes, Tamil Nadu is staring at a bleak water future. At least 60% of groundwater resources in the state are assessed as over-exploited, critical or semi-critical, according to India's Central Ground Water Board. In April 2017, Tamil Nadu farmers camped out in India's capital, Delhi, staging dramatic protests - stuffing dead rats in their mouths, stripping themselves naked in front of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home and drinking their own urine - to underscore the intensity of the drought back home. In June 2017, villagers in Tamil Nadu's parched Ramanathapuram district were protesting against a solar power plant - they alleged that more than 200,000 litres of scarce water was being extracted illegally from bore wells to clean the 250,000 solar modules daily. Utility-scale solar farms - massive projects that supply power to the gird - such as the one in Ramanathapuram need to be re-evaluated, especially if they are to run in areas where water is scarce. The report predicts that Tamil Nadu will have 10.3GW of utility-scale solar installations by the end of this decade and only about 2GW of rooftop installations. Given that both the availability of sunlight and the demand for electricity are decentralised, it makes sense to maximise rooftop solar installations rather than to invest in large solar parks. The overall direction, if not the magnitude and rate of change, laid out in the report is not just possible but essential both financially and environmentally.A healthy and environmentally sustainable future requires more than just switching from dirty coal to wind or solar power. But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	False
558	rt	questionable_source	2018-10-12	Others were less accusatory."	the commentary, penned by John Abraham, a professor of thermal sciences, asks rhetorically.	Denying science has consequences.	But don't we have a responsibility to mitigate the next disaster?	Social media users appeared to largely line up behind the allegations hurled at Scott – although some seemed unconvinced that the governor was at fault."		Media storm targets Gov. Rick Scott's climate change denial after Hurricane Michael pummels Florida As Hurricane Michael pummeled the Gulf coast, a less deadly but equally ferocious media storm formed around Florida Governor Rick Scott, whose alleged climate change denial has been blamed for putting Floridians in harm's way. Viral videos, New York Times op-eds, and Guardian contributors all highlighted Rick Scott's "backward stance" on climate change after Michael, a powerful typhoon, made landfall along the Florida Panhandle. According to these media reports and commentaries, Scott's "science denial" has endangered Florida residents. In other words, if Scott were more vocal about man-made climate change, Florida would have been better prepared for – or perhaps could have even prevented – the devastating hurricane." Florida is the state most endangered by climate change," declares a video published by Now This. "But Gov. Scott's strategy for dealing with it is denial." The New York Times' Nicholas Kristof also took Scott to task for his stance on climate change, writing that "alas, denying climate change doesn't actually prevent it." He added: "Some folks will say this isn't the moment for politics. But don't we have a responsibility to mitigate the next disaster?"It's true that Scott, who is currently running for the Senate, has shown little interest in highlighting or combating the alleged dangers of climate change. In 2015, after the governor took office, the Florida Department of Environment was reportedly banned from using the terms "climate change" and "global warming." Two years later, Scott signed a bill that critics dubbed the "anti-science law," which allows residents to file complaints about instructional materials used in public schools. Scott has a section on his website dedicated to environmental issues – but it is curiously absent of any direct mentions of climate change. However, his website does note that Scott "fought to protect Florida's coastline by getting Florida removed from consideration for offshore oil drilling and securing millions of dollars in state funding to help local governments with coastal resilience projects and sea level rise planning." On the campaign trail, Scott has dodged questions about climate change, resorting to responses such as "I'm not a scientist" to avoid weighing in on the subject. The motive behind Scott's alleged "science denial" has also received media attention. Last year, the Tampa Bay Times alleged that Scott's personal business ties to the energy industry may be the reason for the state's legislative inaction on climate change. The paper claimed that Scott had hefty investments in petroleum companies that oppose restrictions on greenhouse gases and other environmental regulations. READ MORE: Hurricane Michael shuts in 40% off Gulf of Mexico oil productionThe Florida governor hasn't been the only one singled out by the media for his "backward" views, however. According to The Guardian, anyone who isn't a fervent believer in man-made climate change is to blame for Hurricane Michael – even the hurricane's victims." Victims of Hurricane Michael voted for climate deniers,"reads the headline an op-ed published in The Guardian on Thursday. "Elections have consequences. Denying science has consequences. And we are reaping what we sow," the subhead states matter-of-factly. The headline was later amended to "Victims of Hurricane Michael are represented by climate deniers." Climate deniers are making these storms worse by stopping action on climate change. What the hell do we expect to happen when the deniers are writing the laws?" the commentary, penned by John Abraham, a professor of thermal sciences, asks rhetorically. Social media users appeared to largely line up behind the allegations hurled at Scott – although some seemed unconvinced that the governor was at fault." Rick Scott can ban the term all he wants in FLORIDA. Climate change is real," one Twitter user wrote." He's bought and paid for," claimed another. Others were less accusatory." It's not our words that are negatively affecting the atmosphere. It's the damage we are doing to the planet," one Twitter user noted in response to the Now This video." Lol. Like the weather would give a crap if he went mute," a netizen observed. At least six people have been killed as a result of Hurricane Michael, the third most powerful storm ever to hit the US mainland, according to officials. The hurricane made landfall as a Category-4 storm, but later weakened to a Category 1 on Wednesday night. As Hurricane Michael gradually loses strength, however, it appears that the media storm over the consequences of climate change denial is only growing. Will the devastation wrought by Michael and all future hurricanes be laid at the feet of "science deniers"?Like this story? Share it with a friend!	False
547	buzzfeed	left_center_bias	2018-06-29	"There are plenty of 6–3 or 7–2 cases where environmentally sound decisions, in our view, were made.	So, there was no majority opinion.	n this case, his lone opinion became the law," Bookbinder said.	One area legal experts are split on is whether the 2007 decision that greenhouse gases are pollutants will be reconsidered."	Chief Justice John Roberts over the years has not been consistently opposed to environmental regulation or plain readings of pollution laws, Doniger added, suggesting that environmental plaintiffs in cases may turn their strategy to garnering his vote.		Retiring Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy Was A "Gettable Vote" On Environmental Cases, Lawyers Say Mark Miller of Pacific Legal Foundation, an anti-regulation law group that has won 10 out of 12 Supreme Court cases it has pursued, told BuzzFeed News it is too soon to tell exactly how a replacement for Kennedy would change environmental law. "You couldn't predict how Justice Kennedy was going to decide things over his thirty-some years." Reliably hard to predict, Kennedy was more interested in nuanced and scientific arguments than some of the more conservative judges with a stricter anti-regulation outlook, David Doniger of the Natural Resources Defense Council told BuzzFeed News. "Clearly, over the years he has been in a different spot from the other judges." Trump has said he will choose Kennedy's replacement from a short list of 25 candidates . If that holds true, the new court will likely be harder to convince of the importance of environmental laws. "He was a gettable fifth vote on decisions," Bookbinder said. "Things are more daunting without him." He will be missed," David Bookbinder of the Niskanen Center, who was the Sierra Club's chief climate counsel in the 2007 Massachusetts v. EPA decision that designated greenhouse gasses as pollution under the Clean Air Act. But during his 30-year tenure, Kennedy was also the key vote on fundamental environmental decisions. Environmental lawyers are worried about tough times ahead for new laws restricting pollution and protecting wildlife. Kennedy announced his retirement Wednesday, prompting an immediate political scramble over his successor and opening the door for new legal fights on hot-button social issues, such as abortion and gay marriage. Miller suggested that the Endangered Species Act would be the first environmental issue to take the stage on a Kennedy-less court: A dispute over the endangered dusky gopher frog, Weyerhaeuser v. US Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS), is now on the court's docket in the fall. That fight is over 1,500 acres of forest in Louisiana that the FWS designated as "critical habitat" for the survival of the species, even though the frogs don't live on it. The owners of the forest are challenging the government agency's ability to declare property as "critical habitat" when a species doesn't live on it, as well as the government not taking economic costs into account in making such designations. Further down the road, experts expect a fight over which of the nation's waterways are actually protected under the Clean Water Act to return to the Supreme Court, which sent lawsuits on this issue to district courts in January. Those lawsuits are challenging the Environmental Protection Agency's protection of some streams and waterways under rules narrowly written to conform to a 4–1–4 Rapanos v. United States decision made in 2006, where the "1" was Kennedy. The conservative wing of the court wanted to limit EPA's oversight to only big, navigable waterways in that case, and the liberal justices wanted essentially all small wetlands and streams protected too — but Kennedy ended up creating middle ground. He said the government should only be able to regulate smaller waterways that have a "significant nexus" with major ones. So, there was no majority opinion. Because all spaces protected under Kennedy's one-vote opinion also would be protected under the four liberal justices' view, however, his opinion is the one that effectively controlled decisions going forward." n this case, his lone opinion became the law," Bookbinder said. "That's how pivotal he was." More lawsuits are expected on this in response to Trump's EPA drafting its own controversial water rule. One area legal experts are split on is whether the 2007 decision that greenhouse gases are pollutants will be reconsidered." here's a been a lot of focus on whether that case will be reversed by a new majority," Joseph Goffman, executive director of Harvard's Environmental Law Program, told BuzzFeed News. While he doesn't dismiss this possibility out of hand, he's more concerned by the court incrementally chipping away at the government's authority to regulate climate pollution in other ways. NRDC's Doniger pointed out the landmark decision has been twice reaffirmed by the court. At the same time, it had already started to chip away at EPA's power to regulate greenhouse gasses in 2016 by halting enforcement of the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan aimed at curbing emissions from power plants. The Trump administration has since said it was pulling back that plan. Chief Justice John Roberts over the years has not been consistently opposed to environmental regulation or plain readings of pollution laws, Doniger added, suggesting that environmental plaintiffs in cases may turn their strategy to garnering his vote. And while there were many close cases involving the environment that came to the court during Kennedy's 30 years there, environmental advocates noted that not all of those cases were close." t's not like every environmental case was decided 5–4," Doniger said. "There are plenty of 6–3 or 7–2 cases where environmentally sound decisions, in our view, were made. So you really can't say the sky is falling."	False
266	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-02	"In this way, the environment itself is endangered: something good in God's eyes has become something to be exploited in human hands."	"Let us make an effort to change and to adopt more simple and respectful lifestyles!	oo many of us act like tyrants with regard to creation," he declared.	""Egoism and self-interest have turned creation, a place of encounter and sharing, into an arena of competition and conflict," he said.	Referring specifically to fires in the Amazon region, Francis called on everyone to "take up these opportunities to respond to the cry of the poor and of our earth!	The expression "climate crisis," for instance, got "a 60 percent greater emotional response from listeners" than "climate change," the study found. <sep> Pope Francis Calls for 'Drastic Measures' to Combat 'Climate Emergency' In his Message for the World Day of Prayer for the Care of Creation, the pope adopted the apocalyptic language encouraged by climate alarmists to frighten people into taking action." <sep> 	Pope Francis Calls for 'Drastic Measures' to Combat 'Climate Emergency' In his Message for the World Day of Prayer for the Care of Creation, the pope adopted the apocalyptic language encouraged by climate alarmists to frighten people into taking action." oo many of us act like tyrants with regard to creation," he declared. "Let us make an effort to change and to adopt more simple and respectful lifestyles!""Now is the time to abandon our dependence on fossil fuels and move, quickly and decisively, towards forms of clean energy and a sustainable and circular economy. Let us also learn to listen to indigenous peoples, whose age-old wisdom can teach us how to live in a better relationship with the environment," he said. Recent studies have shown that the language of "climate change" and "global warming" do not stir up an emotional reaction in people and so climate alarmists have issued an appeal for the use of more powerful expressions to provoke people to action. Last April, a team of advertising consultants from SPARK Neuro released the results of a study suggesting that worn-out expressions such as "climate change" do not frighten people enough, whereas stronger vocabulary  such as "climate crisis" and "environmental collapse" produced a significantly stronger emotional response. The expression "climate crisis," for instance, got "a 60 percent greater emotional response from listeners" than "climate change," the study found. In its research, SPARK Neuro measured physiological data such as brain activity and palm sweat to quantify people's emotional reactions to stimuli. Of six different options, "global warming" and "climate change" performed the worst, beaten handily by "climate crisis," "environmental destruction," "weather destabilization," and "environmental collapse." The pope has apparently joined the climate alarmists in employing more incendiary language, dropping his former references to climate change to speak of a "climate emergency" and an "environmental crisis" in Sunday's message. He also underscored the forthcoming United Nations Climate Action Summit as of "particular importance" while proposing that governments will have the responsibility there of showing the political will to take "drastic measures to achieve as quickly as possible zero net greenhouse gas emissions." Referring specifically to fires in the Amazon region, Francis called on everyone to "take up these opportunities to respond to the cry of the poor and of our earth!""Egoism and self-interest have turned creation, a place of encounter and sharing, into an arena of competition and conflict," he said. "In this way, the environment itself is endangered: something good in God's eyes has become something to be exploited in human hands." Deterioration has increased in recent decades: constant pollution, the continued use of fossil fuels, intensive agricultural exploitation and deforestation are causing global temperatures to rise above safe levels," he said. The pontiff went on to enumerate the effects of climate change: an "increase in the intensity and frequency of extreme weather phenomena," the "desertification of the soil," "melting of glaciers, scarcity of water, neglect of water basins and the considerable presence of plastic and microplastics in the oceans." All of these "testify to the urgent need for interventions that can no longer be postponed," he warned.	True
291	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-11-12	Environmentalists in California Take Aim at Kitchens to Save the Planet Environmentalists in California are willing to let the state dictate how they cook in their own kitchens in an attempt to save the planet.	"This is a must-do for the climate and a livable planet."	USA Today also pointed out that California is not the only place where people want more government regulation.	t's the only thing that people ever ask about," Bruce Nilles, who directs the building electrification program of the Rocky Mountain Institute, a Colorado-based think tank that focuses on energy and resource efficiency, said in the USA Today report.	And for some cooks who love to prepare food with flame, it's an unthinkable loss.		Environmentalists in California Take Aim at Kitchens to Save the Planet Environmentalists in California are willing to let the state dictate how they cook in their own kitchens in an attempt to save the planet. Thirteen cities and one county in California have put in place zoning codes encouraging or requiring all-electric new construction, virtually banning builders from running natural gas lines into homes and apartments to fuel appliances, including stoves and ovens. USA Today reported that people believe the move is necessary to fight climate change "with an eye toward creating fewer legacy gas hookups as the nation shifts to carbon-neutral energy sources." For natural gas companies, it's a threat to their existence. And for some cooks who love to prepare food with flame, it's an unthinkable loss. Natural gas is a fossil fuel, mostly methane, and produces 33% of U.S. carbon dioxide emissions from electricity generation, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Carbon dioxide is the primary greenhouse gas causing climate change." here's no pathway to stabilizing the climate without phasing gas out of our homes and buildings," Rachel Golden of the Sierra Club's building electrification campaign, said. "This is a must-do for the climate and a livable planet." But the page linked to on the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) website is referring, ironically, to CO2 emissions from the U.S. electric power sector by source for 2018. The new codes call for replacing gas with electricity. The federal website reports on the benefits of using natural gas as an energy source:Burning natural gas for energy results in fewer emissions of nearly all types of air pollutants and carbon dioxide (CO2) than burning coal or petroleum products to produce an equal amount of energy. About 117 pounds of carbon dioxide are produced per million British thermal units (MMBtu) equivalent of natural gas compared with more than 200 pounds of CO2 per MMBtu of coal and more than 160 pounds per MMBtu of distillate fuel oil. The clean burning properties of natural gas have contributed to increased natural gas use for electricity generation and as a transportation fuel for fleet vehicles in the United States." robably the biggest stumbling block for most pondering an all-electric home is the prospect of not having a gas stove," USA Today reported." t's the only thing that people ever ask about," Bruce Nilles, who directs the building electrification program of the Rocky Mountain Institute, a Colorado-based think tank that focuses on energy and resource efficiency, said in the USA Today report. According to a 2017 kitchen study by the NPD Group, 35 percent of U.S. households have a gas stove, while 55 percent have electric." ut the number of natural gas customers is also rising," USA Today reported. "The American Gas Association, which represents more than 200 local energy companies, says an average of one new customer is added every minute." That's exactly the wrong direction," Nilles said." he idea that denying access to natural gas in new homes is necessary to meet emissions reduction goals is false," American Gas Association President and CEO Karen Harbert. "In fact, denying access to natural gas could make meeting emissions goals harder and more expensive." They also say it's more expensive to run an all-electric home," USA Today reported. "A study by AGA released last year suggested that all-electric homes would pay $750 to $910 a year more for energy-related costs, as well as amortized appliance and upgrade costs." USA Today also pointed out that California is not the only place where people want more government regulation. New York, Hawaii, Colorado, and Maine have carbon-neutrality goals, and as many as 140 U.S. cities have similar plans.	False
586	TheBlaze	right_bias	2017-09-23	Rothman says that "decreasing carbon emissions," would be the best way to try to avoid the catastrophe.	Those who point to discrepancies in the global warming narrative have also noted that many of the solutions offered by climate change advocates do very little to actually stop carbon emissions and turn back the clock.	MIT professor warns humanity will hit 'mass extinction' event — here's why A geophysics professor from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology says that he's run the numbers on humanity facing a "mass extinction event," and the numbers are not good.	Rothman goes on to explain that the tipping point of "unknown territory" won't take that long – he predicts it will come as soon as 2100, or sooner.	The other, a critical size or mass, corresponds to the total carbon added to the oceans."		MIT professor warns humanity will hit 'mass extinction' event — here's why A geophysics professor from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology says that he's run the numbers on humanity facing a "mass extinction event," and the numbers are not good. According to Digital Trends, a mass extinction event is an event "in which a large number of species become extinct at once — as was the case with the death of the dinosaurs 65 million years ago. Daniel Rothman told the publication that we are approaching a "threshold of catastrophe" in the carbon cycle similar to that of the five previous periods of mass extinction over the last 540 million years." he study identifies two thresholds for major carbon cycle change," Rothman said. "One is a critical rate of change, corresponding to the rate at which CO2 is added to the ocean/atmosphere system. The other, a critical size or mass, corresponds to the total carbon added to the oceans." Exceeding the critical rate at slow time scales — much greater than about 10,000 years — or exceeding the critical size at fast time scales — much less than about 10,000 years — is associated with mass extinction," he explained." The MIT research paper] predicts that the critical mass, about 300 gigatons of carbon," he concluded, "will likely be exceeded sometime this century. If so, following the paper's logic, the marine carbon cycle would proceed to follow a trajectory which could excite a mass extinction over a period of about 10,000 years." Rothman goes on to explain that the tipping point of "unknown territory" won't take that long – he predicts it will come as soon as 2100, or sooner. Rothman says that "decreasing carbon emissions," would be the best way to try to avoid the catastrophe. Those who point to discrepancies in the global warming narrative have also noted that many of the solutions offered by climate change advocates do very little to actually stop carbon emissions and turn back the clock. They also cite previous "doomsday" scenarios offered by alarmist scientists that didn't come to fruition, including acid rain and global cooling.	False
238	theguardian	left_center_bias	2019-05-29	To avert climate chaos, weneed to challenge the free-market fundamentalism that has conquered the worldsince the 1980s."	AsNaomi Klein argues, even the right's fervent conspiracy theorists tend tounderstand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are forbusiness as usual, which has distributed its profits among elites of bothparties."	For all their bluster and junk science, Republican decision-makers have aclear sense for their own self-interest – and just how much is at stake forthem and the rest of the 1%.	William Happer – most recently famous for) that the "demonization" of carbon dioxide"really differs little from the Nazi persecution of the Jews" – will lead ateam charged with reviewing the science produced by government researchers, nodoubt hunting for references to the disastrous sea-level rise, crop failuresand health impacts continued warming stands to create.	We can't know whether Happer genuinely believes the nonsense he's spouting, oris just being paid well enough to sound like he does.		There's a climate crisis – but Trump's cabinet continues to backtrack on science | Kate Aronoff In an effort to suppress federal climate research, the ) willdirect state agencies to no longer consider worst-case scenarios of globalwarming. Climate modelers working for federal agencies will only be permittedto forecast to 2040, decades before the as-much-as 8C degrees of globalwarming that could take place by 2100 if we continue on our current path. William Happer – most recently famous for) that the "demonization" of carbon dioxide"really differs little from the Nazi persecution of the Jews" – will lead ateam charged with reviewing the science produced by government researchers, nodoubt hunting for references to the disastrous sea-level rise, crop failuresand health impacts continued warming stands to create. The irony in all of this is that Trump, Happer and company may have a firmergrasp on the epic scope of these climate projections than many Democrats. AsNaomi Klein argues, even the right's fervent conspiracy theorists tend tounderstand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are forbusiness as usual, which has distributed its profits among elites of bothparties." embers of Trump's cabinet," Klein has), "with their desperate need todeny the reality of global warming, or belittle its implications", nonetheless"understand something that is fundamentally true. To avert climate chaos, weneed to challenge the free-market fundamentalism that has conquered the worldsince the 1980s." For all their bluster and junk science, Republican decision-makers have aclear sense for their own self-interest – and just how much is at stake forthem and the rest of the 1%. Consider Happer himself, a retired physicist whohas spent his post-academy days hopping between various climate-denyingthinktanks, a good many of them funded by the fossil fuel industry. In 2015, Greenpeace activists duped Happer into agreeing to write a report onthe benefits of carbon dioxide for a fictional oil company. The (real) coalcompany Peabody Energy has paid him to deliver testimony at a state hearing inMinnesota, and Happer has joined hands with groups like the HeritageFoundation, the Cato Institute and the Competitive Enterprise Institute – allrecipients of ample industry funding – to bolster Trump's agenda and castdoubt on the scientific consensus. As the New York Times reported in its article on the White House's new climateplans, both Happer and John Bolton – who tapped him for the administration –have received generous support from the Mercers, the rightwing family creditedwith both spreading climate denial and helping fuel the opioid epidemic. We can't know whether Happer genuinely believes the nonsense he's spouting, oris just being paid well enough to sound like he does. The answer doesn'treally matter. Any clear-eyed assessment of what the science is telling usspells out who the winners and losers of rapid decarbonization would be. Tocap warming at around 2C – a threshold many already dealing with climateimpacts argue is too high – about three-quarters of known fossil fuel reserveswill need to be kept underground, a reality that if realized as public policywould crater the stock price of energy companies. Climate scientist Kevin Anderson has estimated that if the top 10% ofgreenhouse gas emitters were to live like the average European – animprovement even for many of us in the United States – global emissions coulddecline by a third. It is ") with the laws of chemistry andphysics", according to IPCC scientists, to limit warming to the boldlyambitious target of 1.5C. The problem is our politics, and how much of astranglehold the fossil fuel executives with the most to lose fromdecarbonization have over them. Establishment Democrats, meanwhile, are asleep at the wheel. The pitch fortaking on the climate challenge is a compelling one for reasons well beyondthe fact that it could prevent runaway catastrophe. The Green New Dealpromises a well-paid job for everyone who wants one, a real mass transitsystem, clean and affordable energy and universal healthcare – a necessity aspeople leave their jobs to find new work in the transition away from fossilfuels. While several Democratic primary contenders have embraced the Green New Dealand begun proposing their own plans, the frontrunner in that race, Joe Biden,and the Democrats' congressional leadership have been cooler toward it,offering neither a decarbonization plan nor a compelling reason for voters toget behind them come 2020. That's a dead end for the planet, but also for theparty's political prospects. With Donald Trump at their helm, Republicans will keep denying climate changebecause it represents a dire threat to their fossil fuel donors' bottom lines. Democratic leadership would do well to follow the lead of their party'sinsurgent progressive wing, and take the climate threat as seriously.	False
704	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-10-31	Scott Pruitt Just Cleared The Way For Industry Control Of EPA's Science Advisory Boards At a Tuesday afternoon event rolling out the new policy, Administrator Scott Pruitt invoked a biblical tale from the book of Joshua, in which the pagans are instructed to "choose this day whom you will serve," either God or the "gods of your fathers."	"When it comes to advice the agency receives, the core concern over the need to avoid conflicts of interest is this: Is advice tainted because the entity employing and paying the advisor stands to gain or lose financially from the agency decision that is under advisement?	Rick Perry (R) and accused him of "abusing science."	"For Pruitt, anything that helps corporate polluters make money is good and science and facts are just roadblocks he wants to tear down."	As it relates to grants from this agency, you're going to have to choose," said Pruitt, who described the new rule as a way of ensuring "there's integrity in the process and that the scientists that are advising us are doing so without any kind of appearance of conflict."		Scott Pruitt Just Cleared The Way For Industry Control Of EPA's Science Advisory Boards At a Tuesday afternoon event rolling out the new policy, Administrator Scott Pruitt invoked a biblical tale from the book of Joshua, in which the pagans are instructed to "choose this day whom you will serve," either God or the "gods of your fathers." As it relates to grants from this agency, you're going to have to choose," said Pruitt, who described the new rule as a way of ensuring "there's integrity in the process and that the scientists that are advising us are doing so without any kind of appearance of conflict." Pruitt described scientists who received as much as $77 million in grants from the agency while also serving on advisory boards as damaging the perception of independent rule-making. Pruitt signed an order cementing the new rules into policy during the 28-minute event, with Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) and Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Texas), two of the most ardent climate change deniers in Congress, at his side." dministrator Pruitt is purging expert scientists from his science boards ― and replacing them with mouthpieces for big polluters," Sen. Tom Udall (D-N.M.) said in a statement. "Now, instead of independent science guiding the way, hired guns for industry will be steering EPA policy on central issues affecting clean air, clean water, and public health." Pruitt said nothing of industry-funded science, which has long been used to kneecap regulations. For many scientists working in a time of limited research budgets, funding from the EPA or other government agencies is one of the few sources available, other than industry money." holly unaddressed by the directive is any counterpart prohibition on scientists funded by industries with conflicts of interest from serving as EPA advisors," Richard Denison, a lead senior scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund, wrote in a blog post. "When it comes to advice the agency receives, the core concern over the need to avoid conflicts of interest is this: Is advice tainted because the entity employing and paying the advisor stands to gain or lose financially from the agency decision that is under advisement?"The advisory boards, which Congress created as a check on EPA policies and regulations, include the EPA Science Advisory Board, the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee (CASAC) and the Board of Scientific Counselors. Pruitt said he plans to announce new members of the boards next week, after scientists began quitting the councils in protest earlier this year. While Pruitt's new order rejects anyone who receives funding from the agency, he has named industry allies to those same boards. As part of the announcement, he tapped Michael Honeycutt, the head of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality's toxicology division, to serve as the head of the Science Advisory Board. Honeycutt once suggested the health risks linked to smog were overstated, described ozone standards as "alarmism" that made "no biological sense" because "most people are indoors for 90 percent of the time," and blasted the EPA for relying on epidemiological studies that he considered "not scientifically rigorous." In 2010, the Texas Observer called him a "crony" of then-Gov. Rick Perry (R) and accused him of "abusing science." Honeycutt relied heavily on research produced by Michael Dourson, whose consultancy, Toxicology Excellence for Risk Assessment, was described in 2014 by InsideClimate News as the "one-stop science shop" favored by the chemical and tobacco industries. (Pruitt picked Dourson to lead the agency's chemical safety division last month.)Pruitt also tapped Tony Cox, who runs the private consultancy Cox Associates and produces research for major industry groups, to lead the CASAC. He has done research on lung disease issues for the American Chemistry Council, a trade group for the chemical industry, and research on health effects associated with fine particulate matter and ozone for the American Petroleum Institute, the oil industry's main lobbying group, according to The Intercept. In 2015, he railed against the EPA's plans to tighten rules on ozone emissions. Pruitt appointed Paul Gilman as the head of the Board of Scientific Counselors. Gilman currently serves as the chief sustainability officer at the waste management and incinerator company Covanta. He has been a leading advocate for incinerating trash as a source of fuel for electricity. The trash incinerator industry provides only a tiny fraction of U.S. power, but wields outsize influence in some cities and has attempted to sabotage the U.S. Conference of Mayors' effort to push for 100 percent renewable energy." cott Pruitt doesn't want to listen to a word from anyone who isn't in the pocket of corporate polluters," Sierra Club Executive Director Michael Brune said in a statement. "For Pruitt, anything that helps corporate polluters make money is good and science and facts are just roadblocks he wants to tear down."	True
597	The Political Insider	right_bias	2017-06-02	his is religion for the political left, and our supporters are constantly being asked to change their behavior," a top White House official told Axios, who added that "snarky comments" from European leaders also encouraged Trump to withdraw.	For years, liberals like Al Gore and Leonardo DiCaprio have lectured the American public on global warming, yet these hypocrites have bigger carbon footprints than millions of poorer people combined – traveling around the world in private jets accompanied by a fleet of SUVs.	The White House official said "Trump resented the corporate critics who 'ride in fossil-fuel-guzzling planes and SUVs, then act holier-than-thou,'" according to Axios.	Some 147 countries have ratified the Paris agreement.	President Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal is a giant middle finger to elitists all around the world who want America to suffer simply to promote their global warming alarmism.		President Trump Pulled Out of Paris Deal to Stick it to Elites On Thursday, President Donald J. Trump rejected failed former President Obama's disastrous Paris "global warming" deal that sought to burden our economy with heavy regulations and taxes all to push the left's global warming hysteria. In a Rose Garden speech, President Trump said he rejected the global warming agreement because "I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris," words that the global warming alarmists cannot comprehend. Now, a new report sheds some more light into why President Trump rejected the globalist scam, and it's incredible: specifically, he wanted to stick it to "holier-than-thou" elites in America, specifically leftists who fly around in private jets, drive SUVs, and live in massive mansions yet lecture Americans about their environmental impact." his is religion for the political left, and our supporters are constantly being asked to change their behavior," a top White House official told Axios, who added that "snarky comments" from European leaders also encouraged Trump to withdraw. The White House official said "Trump resented the corporate critics who 'ride in fossil-fuel-guzzling planes and SUVs, then act holier-than-thou,'" according to Axios. Trump announced he would withdraw the U.S. from the Paris agreement, which the Obama administration joined in 2016 after years of negotiating with United Nations member countries. Some 147 countries have ratified the Paris agreement. Trump said the Paris agreement was poorly negotiated and would harm the U.S. economy. Trump said the deal transferred wealth from the U.S. to economic rivals, like China and India. "I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris," Trump said. It's also important to note that the Obama administration didn't have the authority to commit the United States to a treaty without being ratified by the Senate – a crucial point that the liberal media deliberately ignores in order to attack President Trump. It's been rumored that Trump's liberal son-in-law, Jared Kushner, as well as his daughter Ivanka and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, pushed the President to remain in the global warming deal – but the President chose the American people instead. For years, liberals like Al Gore and Leonardo DiCaprio have lectured the American public on global warming, yet these hypocrites have bigger carbon footprints than millions of poorer people combined – traveling around the world in private jets accompanied by a fleet of SUVs. Throughout much of the 2016 campaign, then-candidate Donald Trump railed against corporate and global elitists who want to dictate their liberal agenda onto the American public, with no understanding of how such liberal policies would harm our economy and the American people. President Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal is a giant middle finger to elitists all around the world who want America to suffer simply to promote their global warming alarmism. Are you glad President Trump rejected the Paris deal? Share your thoughts below!	True
605	National Review	right_bias	2017-04-26	It should be one that centers on quality institutions and policies that leverage competition and consumer choice.	Conservatives should seek opportunities to shed regulations and subsidies in favor of market-oriented policies.	Unwittingly, in conservatives' quest for equal treatment of different energy sources, they have adopted policies that reinforce government's role in dictating energy outcomes.	For example, while criticizing the tax credits for wind and solar power, conservatives have embraced subsidies for carbon capture and sequestration and government regulation on nuclear insurance.	An analysis of President Obama's environmental legacy by the American Action Forum found the negative effect of regulations on economic growth led to forgone environmental benefits (richer economies tend to value clean air more and emit less relative to production), and led to regulations that were about half as effective as claimed on paper.		Conservatives Need an Energy Vision For conservatives seeking a major victory, a great place to start would be to fix the mess of energy subsidies and regulations that have accumulated over the past eight years. In the years since Barack Obama took office, there were $548 billion in energy and environment regulations finalized, and the projected budget currently estimates at least $250 billion in federal energy subsidies. Attempts to eliminate these regulations and subsidies have been hampered by conservatives' lack of an overarching vision for energy policy. While the Left is happy to use regulation to promote specific forms of energy they find ideologically appealing, the response from conservatives all too often has been to weakly offer the "all of the above" catchphrase as a counterweight. Even worse, conservatives sometimes have played the Left's game in reverse, using government to promote their own favored forms of energy, rather than to promote competition and markets. For example, while criticizing the tax credits for wind and solar power, conservatives have embraced subsidies for carbon capture and sequestration and government regulation on nuclear insurance. Conservative principles uphold free markets, competition, and the rule of law — yet too many conservatives are content to get their electricity from regulated monopolies, or build infrastructure under outdated regulatory-approval processes that take, on average, 70 months to complete. While conservatives can be bellicose about ending the "war on coal," they have placed far less emphasis on the benefits of policies to improve liquidity in natural-gas markets. Responding to challenges in the energy sphere one issue at a time results in many conservatives missing the forest for the trees and not talking enough about what pro-market energy policy looks like. Unwittingly, in conservatives' quest for equal treatment of different energy sources, they have adopted policies that reinforce government's role in dictating energy outcomes. Even when Republicans showed budget discipline in 2015 by finally putting a sunset on several production and investment tax credits, they did so without ending all subsidies for wind and solar. The result is entrenched government preference for already mature wind and solar technologies, and stymied competition from emerging technologies, such as fuel cells and geothermal, that would benefit the most from the tax credits. Conservatives sorely need to define an energy narrative rooted in market principles. It should be one that centers on quality institutions and policies that leverage competition and consumer choice. Markets, not mandates or subsidies, will drive cost reductions, innovations, and deployment of clean technologies. An incrementalistic approach — one that seeks to level the subsidy playing field or merely to pare back Obama's regulatory legacy — will do little to foster the conditions needed for the sorts of innovation that both the Right and Left seek. Progressives who favor heavy regulation and energy subsidies had a field day during Obama's presidency. However, regulators likely overstated the net benefits of regulations, and the Clean Power Plan would have accomplished little, at high cost, while proving legally vulnerable and politically unstable. An analysis of President Obama's environmental legacy by the American Action Forum found the negative effect of regulations on economic growth led to forgone environmental benefits (richer economies tend to value clean air more and emit less relative to production), and led to regulations that were about half as effective as claimed on paper. Subsidies also have been inefficient. The National Academy of Sciences found that production and investment tax credits for wind and solar reduced carbon dioxide emissions at a cost of a whopping $250 per ton. A 2015 Congressional Budget Office report acknowledged that tax credits are less effective at achieving policy goals than alternative, market-driven policies. An AAF analysis of tax credits for renewables found the costs to taxpayers rose at a faster rate than the renewable energy output, indicating declining performance of the subsidies. The Left's focus on energy policy has been costly, with poor outcomes. The Democratic party has an official policy to cut pollution from energy use through regulation and subsidies, yet another AAF analysis revealed no pathway exists to achieve those stated objectives via regulation. Even assuming the targets were achievable at costs similar to past regulations, the economic costs of the regulatory burden would exceed $7 trillion. Conservatives should seek opportunities to shed regulations and subsidies in favor of market-oriented policies. This means a plan to phase out distortionary tax preferences completely. Expanding full-cost expensing in the tax code would boost R&D fairly and efficiently. Additional R&D benefits would come from shifting Department of Energy priorities from applied research toward basic research. Opportunities to cut red tape abound, from hydroelectric and advanced nuclear licensing to modernizing the Clean Air Act. Removing regulatory barriers to entry for unconventional technologies (such as energy storage) in wholesale electricity markets would help level the playing field. Rethinking counterproductive energy-efficiency regulations — which reduce incentives for innovation and risk taking with new technologies — should also be a part of the equation. Conservatives should also protect and enhance competitive energy markets. A report from the R Street Institute found that competitive electricity markets cut costs while boosting innovation and environmental quality. Strengthening these markets, while minimizing political interventions like power-plant bailouts, is crucial to the performance of the electricity industry. Improving rules that affect price formation in electricity markets will also help stimulate efficient investments. Conservatives have an opportunity to retake the energy narrative with a platform that favors competition and choice. It would be a return to conservative basics, where industries and technologies excel on their merits, not political popularity. In so doing, conservatives will advance the American economy and their political interests well into the future.— Philip Rossetti is a data analyst at the American Action Forum; Devin Hartman is electricity policy manager and senior fellow with the R Street Institute.	False
537	npr	left_center_bias	2018-10-08	This is our chance to decide what that road will look like."	Crops like corn are now turned into ethanol, but that raises food prices.	We have a monumental task in front of us," says co-author Natalie Mahowald, from Cornell University, "but it is not impossible."	The United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) says pledges from the world's governments to reduce greenhouse gases, made in Paris in 2015, aren't enough to keep global warming from rising more than 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees F) above pre-industrial temperatures.	Climate Report Warns Of Extreme Weather, Displacement Of Millions Without Action Climate Report Warns Of Extreme Weather, Displacement Of Millions Without ActionSome of the world's top climate scientists have concluded that global warming is likely to reach dangerous levels unless new technologies are developed to remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere.		Climate Report Warns Of Extreme Weather, Displacement Of Millions Without Action Climate Report Warns Of Extreme Weather, Displacement Of Millions Without ActionSome of the world's top climate scientists have concluded that global warming is likely to reach dangerous levels unless new technologies are developed to remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. The United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) says pledges from the world's governments to reduce greenhouse gases, made in Paris in 2015, aren't enough to keep global warming from rising more than 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees F) above pre-industrial temperatures. That was the Paris agreement's most ambitious target (a 2-degree C rise was established as a more practical goal). But even with a 1.5-degree C increase, the world can expect serious changes to weather, sea levels, agriculture and natural eco-systems, according to a report issued Monday following an IPCC meeting in South Korea." Limiting warming to 1.5 C is possible within the laws of chemistry and physics," says Jim Skea of Imperial College London, one of the authors of the report, "but doing so would require unprecedented changes." Scientists and climate researchers have long doubted that the 1.5-degree C goal was practical or economically feasible. Their new report lays out the difficulty in stark detail: it would require a 40-50 percent reduction in emissions by 2030 (global emissions are currently rising). It would mean a carbon-neutral world — one with no net additional greenhouse gases in the atmosphere — by 2050. They now say that scenario is very unlikely without new measures and technologies to remove greenhouse gases from the air, some of which have yet to be invented." We have a monumental task in front of us," says co-author Natalie Mahowald, from Cornell University, "but it is not impossible." In 50 years, she says, "it's going to be very different. This is our chance to decide what that road will look like." The IPCC report holds out hope that if the global climate warms more than the 1.5-degree, or even the 2-degree target, this "overshoot" could be reversed with carbon removal techniques. It suggests numerous ways to take carbon dioxide (CO2), the leading greenhouse gas, out of the atmosphere. Growing more forests, which absorb CO2, is one tactic. But research shows that the amount of land needed for that would be formidable. Another possibility involves burning biomass to make electricity instead of using fossil fuels. Currently, about 1 percent of electricity in the U.S. is made that way, using things like waste wood and agricultural material. It's expensive, however. Crops like corn are now turned into ethanol, but that raises food prices. To be economical, the biomass would have to be agricultural waste or special crops like switchgrass that don't compete with food crops. There are experimental methods now that can take CO2 directly out of the air, after which it could be buried. But billions of tons of CO2 would have to come out, and these techniques now cost as much as $1,000 to extract a single ton of CO2, according to Howard Herzog, an engineer at MIT who specializes in these "carbon capture" technologies. CO2 is a tiny percentage of the air; Herzog likens the technique to removing 400 "CO2 marbles" from a pile of one million marbles." The best way to remove CO2 from the air," he says in his book Carbon Capture, is "to not release it into the air in the first place." Herzog calls most of these extraction ideas "more of a hope than a reality." He says it comes down to cost, and "it's a lot cheaper to take it out now (by reducing emissions) than in the future." But most governments now fear the cost of a global overhaul of the world's energy economy in the short time needed to meet the Paris climate goals. As the report concludes: "There is no simple answer to the questions of whether it is feasible to limit warming to 1.5 C and to adapt to the consequences...." However, it does make clear the consequences of warming above that level: more heat waves, more severe rain and snow events, higher sea levels, damage to agriculture and displacement of millions of people.	False
366	drudgereport	right_bias	2018-05-03	The decision by Khurelsukh's cabinet to distribute air purifiers is a very bad decision," Davaadalai said."	Batbayar Munguntuul, a 34-year-old accountant and mother of three, drank oxygen cocktails when she was pregnant, but she ended up spending much more money on medicine."	Last year, the parliament approved a tax exemption for companies that sell air purifiers, while Prime Minister Ukhnaa Khurelsukh issued an order to distribute $1.6 million worth of the appliances to all schools.	But Maria Neira, the head of the WHO's public health department, said the "real solution" to protect the lungs and the cardiovascular system was to reduce air pollution and avoid exposure to it."	However, policymakers only address the issue by talking about passing out clean stoves and clean coal," Mandakhjargal said.		Mongolians sip 'oxygen cocktails' to cope with smog... Buildings disappear in the smog in Ulaanbaatar, where residents have resorted to sipping 'lung' tea and 'oxygen cocktails' in a desperate bid to protect themselves from pollution Fed up with the smog in Mongolia's capital, residents have resorted to sipping "lung" tea and "oxygen cocktails" in a desperate bid to protect themselves from pollution, despite health officials saying there is no evidence they work. Ulaanbaatar topped New Delhi and Beijing as the world's most polluted capital in 2016, UNICEF said in a report warning of a health crisis that has put every child and pregnancy at risk. With residents of so-called ger (slum) districts using coal stoves to cook and heat their homes in the world's coldest capital, where temperatures can dip as low as -40 Celsius (-40 Fahrenheit), pollution has skyrocketed. While most of the pollution comes from stoves in the gers, road transport and power plants add to the toxic mix. On January 30, air pollution was 133 times higher than the safe limit set by the World Health Organization (WHO). UNICEF reported that cases of respiratory infections have nearly tripled and pneumonia is now the second leading cause of death for children under five. Worried parents have held protests to press the government to take action. But some businesses are cashing in, even though a WHO official says there is no evidence that such anti-smog products work. Batbayariin Munguntuul sitting with her children while an air purifier runs at her home in Ulaanbaatar Advertisements in Mongolia boast that "drinking just one oxygen cocktail is equal to a three-hour-walk in a lush forest". At the produce section of the State Department Store, blue cans of oxygen called "Life Is Air" are on sale for $2, and promise to turn a glass of juice into a foamy, sweet "oxygen cocktail" after spraying some into a glass through a special straw. Other stores and pharmacies have oxygen cocktail machines that resemble coffee makers and can turn a juice into a frothy drink for $1. Pregnant women are among the most avid customers of the Russian-made product, with some saying they are following their doctor's orders. Batbayar Munguntuul, a 34-year-old accountant and mother of three, drank oxygen cocktails when she was pregnant, but she ended up spending much more money on medicine." Every winter we constantly buy medicine," she told AFP. "It has reached a point that it is like just any other grocery product that you have to buy regularly." Like many other Mongolians, she has chosen to buy an air purifier to make sure her family breathes clean air at home. Her machine, which filters out toxic fumes, cost her $300. The average level of PM2.5 particles -- which penetrate deep into the lungs -- was 75 micrograms per cubic metre last year, or three times the exposure recommended by the WHO for a 24-hour period. Air pollution has been linked to asthma, bronchitis, and other long-term respiratory diseases. Some Mongolians drinking special teas named Enkhjin, Ikh Taiga, and Dr. Baatar that claim to clean lungs. Dr. Baatar's CEO, Baatar Chantsaldulam, said sales surge by 20 to 30 percent during winter, when pollution tends to reach its peak." First it takes all the toxins out of the blood, then it turns the toxins in the lung into mucus, and all the plants in tea helps boost the human immune system," he told AFP. But Maria Neira, the head of the WHO's public health department, said the "real solution" to protect the lungs and the cardiovascular system was to reduce air pollution and avoid exposure to it." The business community will offer plenty of those solutions," Neira said, referring to the oxygen cocktails and lung teas." We don't have any scientific evidence whether they provide any benefit," she said." For the past 10 years, people have known that air pollution has reached dangerous levels," Parents Against Smog coordinator Tumur Mandakhjargal told AFP." However, policymakers only address the issue by talking about passing out clean stoves and clean coal," Mandakhjargal said. The NGO says the government should give some 200,000 ger residents access to loans so that they install heating insulation and replace their stoves with cleaner heaters. It also complains that a ger relocation plan has been too slow. The government spent $120 million between 2008-2016 to combat pollution, with half of the funds coming out of its foreign aid revenue. Part of the money has gone to distributing low-emission stoves to residents of ger districts. Last year, the parliament approved a tax exemption for companies that sell air purifiers, while Prime Minister Ukhnaa Khurelsukh issued an order to distribute $1.6 million worth of the appliances to all schools. Non-profit organisations are giving away air purifiers and anti-smog masks to schools, kindergartens and hospitals. The non-profit group Smog and Kids donated a South Korean-made air ventilation system to a kindergarten in one of the capital's most polluted areas, and the difference in air quality inside and outside the classrooms is palpable. Such systems can cost up to $2,500 plus $500 for installation. But Smog and Kids representative Tumendalai Davaadalai said air purifiers were not the answer to the problem." Mobile air purifiers don't give oxygen, they're not plants. The decision by Khurelsukh's cabinet to distribute air purifiers is a very bad decision," Davaadalai said." They are just funding businesses without any positive results."	False
344	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-07-11	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	It's the height of irony, given Europe's virtue signaling last year.	When individuals are free to choose when and how to adjust their daily lives to protect the environment — without government compulsion requiring it — the environment reaps the benefits.	Corporate America is doing its part.	Earlier this year, oil and gas companies such as ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell met with Pope Francis to discuss climate change and put concrete solutions on the table.		I Was Right When I Said That President Trump Saved The Planet A little over a year ago, I wrote that President Trump saved the planet when he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate agreement. The decision, I argued, "enabled the free market to do exactly what liberals want: Empower individuals to better the environment" — without government intervention. As individuals, we are taking steps to protect the environment by choice — not by mandate — and going green is paying off. According to the Energy Information Administration's (EIA) latest monthly energy report, U.S. carbon dioxide emissions are at their lowest point since 1992. Per-capita carbon emissions are the lowest they've been since 1950. We're also outpacing our allies, many of whom criticized President Trump's decision to put America first. In the last year alone, U.S. carbon emissions fell more than 0.5 percent, while European emissions rose 1.5 percent. It's the height of irony, given Europe's virtue signaling last year. After President Trump shredded his predecessor's unconstitutional "treaty," the globalist leaders of France, Germany and Italy claimed it "cannot be renegotiated." They referred to the "irreversible" agreement as a "vital instrument for our planet, societies and economies." The globalist decree would have left us spending trillions of dollars a year to mitigate a rise in global temperatures, without really mitigating it at all. The Paris climate agreement was expected to drop temperatures by one-fifth of a degree over the next century. Apparently, it wasn't such a "vital instrument" after all. Europe is failing to pull its weight as Americans cut pollution to historic lows. The decline in U.S. carbon emissions is a testament to the free market's enduring power. There is nothing more vital for environmental protection than our freedom to protect the environment as individuals — without Big Government and its endless red tape. Anti-Trump liberals and conservatives alike are investing in renewable energy, choosing hybrid vehicles over gas-guzzlers and encouraging their neighbors to do the same. We're cutting down on waste like never before. We're reusing more than ever. And we're recycling, recycling, recycling. This year, the environmental industry is expected to grow five percent to $407 billion — without the Paris agreement. By 2020, the waste management segment alone is projected to surpass $70 billion in economic activity, with an average annual growth rate of 3.6 percent. Corporate America is doing its part. Tesla is working on the world's largest battery farm in the California desert, reaffirming its commitment to electric vehicles and an energy grid powered by renewable options. The new power plant will be capable of producing "up to 1.1 GWh" of electricity — enough energy for millions of homes. Tesla isn't alone. Last year, 19 companies announced deals with energy providers to build 2.78 gigawatts worth of solar and wind generating capacity. At least 22 companies in the Fortune 500 have committed to buying enough renewable energy to match 100 percent of their electricity use moving forward. Earlier this year, oil and gas companies such as ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell met with Pope Francis to discuss climate change and put concrete solutions on the table. They're backing up their words: ExxonMobil is developing renewable oils from genetically engineered algae, while Royal Dutch Shell vows to become a leading supplier of renewable electricity." oing green" is creating new jobs and new industries to boot. As always, free-market forces outperform the unfunded mandates and taxpayer-funded, job-killing enforcement bureaucracies of Big Government. Even as the Left demands more environmental regulations, President Trump is wise to side with the free market. When individuals are free to choose when and how to adjust their daily lives to protect the environment — without government compulsion requiring it — the environment reaps the benefits. When private enterprise is free to experiment and innovate, we see a stronger economy and a real commitment to environmental action. President Trump understands environmental protection is impossible without individual action and private innovation. It's because of free enterprise the environmental industry is as large as it is today and growing. By protecting individual freedom from government regulation, President Trump is saving our jobs — and the environment to boot. Dan Backer is a veteran campaign counsel who has worked for more than 100 candidates, PACs, and political organizations, including Great America PAC and the Committee to Defend the President. He is founding attorney of political. law, a campaign finance and political law firm. The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	False
681	Vox	left_bias	2017-06-01	Our health hangs in the balance, too.	(Read Maryn McKenna's New York Times story for more on this.	The Paris agreement was no panacea — but it nudged the world in the right direction.	These goals were widely viewed as a win for public health.	Ebola demonstrates that even localized dislocation of people and animals can create global risk.		Climate change will make people sicker. Trump is pulling out of Paris anyway. President Donald Trump is making good on his campaign promise to pull the US out of the Paris climate agreement — a move that's been called a moral disgrace and that's expected to hinder much needed progress in the fight against global warming.A failure to tackle climate change will mean more extreme weather, dirtier air and water, and more food shortages. It'll also mean more disease. Researchers have long been arguing that the effects of climate change could undermine the last 50 years of gains in global health, increasing the spread of infections like yellow fever and chronic diseases like asthma and heart disease. Now is not the time to be scaling back efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The December 2015 agreement, which has been signed by nearly 200 countries, aimed to cut greenhouse gas emissions and keep global warming below 2 degrees Celsius. (The US had committed to cutting its emissions by up to 28 percent from 2005 levels by 2025.) These goals were widely viewed as a win for public health. America's retreat now could be a major setback. There are a number of ways climate change puts us at a greater risk for disease. Chief among them: a warmer planet is one that's more hospitable to disease. Disease-carrying vectors like mosquitoes thrive in warm and moist environments. Zika, dengue, and chikungunya are all spread by the Aedes type mosquito. And one of the reasons researchers think Aedes may be reaching new places — and more people — lately is climate change. It's not just mosquitoes, though: Bird flu, cholera, Lyme disease, salmonella — researchers believe all are being made worse by climate change. At a February meeting on climate change and health, former Vice President Al Gore focused his talk on this problem. "Climate change is tilting the balance, disrupting natural ecosystems and giving more of an advantage to microbes," he said. "Changing climate conditions change the areas in which these diseases can take root and become endemic." (Read Maryn McKenna's New York Times story for more on this.)In addition, deforestation and urbanization are moving humans into areas where they haven't lived before, and putting them into closer contact with animals that carry disease-causing microbes — like bats during West Africa's 2014 Ebola outbreak. Brian Deese, a senior adviser to President Barack Obama overseeing climate change and energy policy, and former Ebola czar Ron Klain explained why in a piece at the Washington Post:Climate change destroys habitats and stresses animal populations such as the bats of West Africa, forcing them to hunt for food nearer to humans. Humans, likewise pressed by climate impacts, encroach more closely on animal habitats. While we cannot know that climate change was the cause of the specific interaction between bats and humans that is believed to have launched the Ebola outbreak in Guinea, we will see more of these interactions in the future, and more epidemics as a result. Ebola demonstrates that even localized dislocation of people and animals can create global risk. Climate change is a threat multiplier for much broader dislocation — accelerating the complex factors that drive people from their homes. Greenhouse gases are not only harmful to the environment — they also increase the risk of everything from asthma to heart disease. According to the Global Burden of Disease project, more than 5 million people die worldwide each year because of air pollution, and emissions from coal-fired plants are a major risk factor here. It's one reason why health experts have been pushing policymakers to rapidly phase out of coal. For miners, the immediate health risks include black lung disease and scarring of the lung tissue. But the pollutants emitted when coal is processed — including sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, and mercury — have much more far-reaching effects on many more people. In one large study involving 450,000 Americans followed between 1982 and 2004, researchers found that increased exposure to the particles in fossil fuel emissions increased the risk of death from heart disease — and particles from coal burning were five times more damaging than other similar particles. Reducing emissions from coal-fired power plants makes it easier to breathe. Over the past 30 years, the percentage of Americans with asthma has more than doubled, and climate change has been a significant driver of that trend. Air pollution triggers asthma attacks, contributing to lung abnormalities, particularly in the developing pulmonary systems of children. The Paris agreement was no panacea — but it nudged the world in the right direction. Now, the US moves backward. It's not just the future of the environment that's at stake here. Our health hangs in the balance, too.	False
459	vox	left_bias	2018-12-06	ell, I think that both sides have, you know, their own results from their studies, and I appreciate and respect both sides of the science," Craft said.	Asked, "Do you believe in climate change?"	Craft responded, "I believe there are scientists on both sides that are accurate."	US ambassador to Canada tries to "both sides" climate science During an interview with CBC, the new US ambassador to Canada, Kelly Craft, claimed she believes "both sides" of climate science.	The facts of climate science and the urgency of the climate threat to the US are a nuisance to an administration that has consistently prioritized the demands of the fossil fuel industry to roll back federal policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions.		US ambassador to Canada tries to "both sides" climate science During an interview with CBC, the new US ambassador to Canada, Kelly Craft, claimed she believes "both sides" of climate science. Asked, "Do you believe in climate change?" Craft responded, "I believe there are scientists on both sides that are accurate." Do you believe there is science that proves that man is not causing climate change?" the interviewer followed up." ell, I think that both sides have, you know, their own results from their studies, and I appreciate and respect both sides of the science," Craft said. Though several members of the Trump administration, including President Trump himself, continue to cast doubt on humans' role in the changing climate without providing any evidence, it's simply not a matter on which scientists disagree at all. The latest National Climate Assessment, written by more than 300 scientists at 13 US federal agencies including the Department of Defense and NASA, for instance, opens with the statement: "Earth's climate is now changing faster than at any point in the history of modern civilization, primarily as a result of human activities." The report goes on to detail the toll climate change has already taken on health, quality of life, and the economy of the US and how those impacts will mount if emissions are not dramatically reduced in the coming years. "With continued growth in emissions at historic rates, annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century — more than the current gross domestic product (GDP) of many U.S. states," according to the assessment. The Trump administration released the report ahead of schedule on the Friday after Thanksgiving — a move many interpreted as an attempt to bury the findings. The facts of climate science and the urgency of the climate threat to the US are a nuisance to an administration that has consistently prioritized the demands of the fossil fuel industry to roll back federal policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. And Trump has appointed a number of officials like Craft whose allegiance to industry is clear. In 2016, Craft reportedly donated $265,400 toward Trump's election and $17,000 to the Republican National Committee. Craft's husband, Joseph Craft, is a billionaire coal magnate. A Global News report from 2017 provides some details about him:While the Crafts have a personal financial stake in pushing climate denialism, other prominent Republicans have tried to tamp down on the conclusions of the Climate Assessment by citing concerns about the impact curbing greenhouse gas emissions would have on "industry and jobs." But as Vox's David Roberts has detailed, "[t]here is no consistent evidence that environmental regulations cause long-term changes in overall employment."	False
70	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-02-07	org.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others.	The resolution calls for a World War II-style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations.	(RELATED: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez: 'Green New Deal Is About Social Justice')Being a non-binding resolution, the "Green New Deal" doesn't offer any specifics on how livestock emissions would be phased down or eliminated.		TARGETS COW FLATULENCE... Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's newly-released "Green New Deal" resolution has gotten a lot of attention for its 100 percent renewable energy goal, but the bill also vaguely references another source of emissions. The resolution calls for a World War II-style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations. If that's the case, that means any subsequent "Green New Deal" legislation would have to deal with a major source of methane emissions — cow flatulence and burps." e set a goal to get to net-zero, rather than zero emissions, in 10 years because we aren't sure that we'll be able to fully get rid of farting cows and airplanes that fast," reads the initial version of the resolution's fact-sheet. However, Ocasio-Cortez staffers have since removed "farting" from fact-sheet. Methane makes up 10 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for global warming. Enteric fermentation, the digestive process in cows and other ruminant animals, is the largest source of U.S. methane emissions, according to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) data. EPA says "cattle account for the majority of [methane] emissions in the United States for this source category," referring to emissions from enteric fermentation. Most methane from cows comes from their burps, not farts. (RELATED: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez: 'Green New Deal Is About Social Justice')Being a non-binding resolution, the "Green New Deal" doesn't offer any specifics on how livestock emissions would be phased down or eliminated. The question then becomes: How do you eliminate emissions from cows, sheep and other animals?Certainly, environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of people's diets in the name of the climate, but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health. Some scientists have looked into reducing flatulence from ruminant animals. The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others. The Obama administration released a plan to clamp down on methane emissions in 2014, which included programs to cut emissions from dairy operations. Republican lawmakers worried the Obama-era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers. Methane is a more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide, but makes up a much smaller slice of America's emissions profile. Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane, which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
522	bbc	left_center_bias	2018-03-23	Scientists say governments, businesses, and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming, fishing, forestry, mining, or infrastructure development.	Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia, leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said: "We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have."	The report conducted by 550 experts from around the world said reduced biodiversity could affect people's quality of life.	Among the list of the biggest threats to food and water security were pollution, climate change, and deforestation.	Fortunately, the evidence also shows that we know how to protect and partially restore our vital natural assets."		Half of African species 'face extinction' The actions of mankind could lead to the extinction of half of African birds and mammals by the end of 2100, a UN-backed study has said. The report conducted by 550 experts from around the world said reduced biodiversity could affect people's quality of life. It also found 42% of land-based animal and plant species in Europe and Central Asia have declined in the last decade. The findings come after the death of the last male northern white rhino. Despite the bleak findings, the study also pointed to some successes in reversing declines in wildlife. The study by the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) showed forest cover in China and other parts of north-east Asia had risen by more than 20% between 1990 and 2015. It also found that animals, such as the amur leopard, which were once on the verge of the extinction had grown in population. Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia, leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said: "We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have." Fortunately, the evidence also shows that we know how to protect and partially restore our vital natural assets." Academic volunteers looked through some 10,000 scientific publications for what is said to be the most extensive biodiversity survey since 2005. Among the list of the biggest threats to food and water security were pollution, climate change, and deforestation. Scientists say governments, businesses, and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming, fishing, forestry, mining, or infrastructure development.	False
838	RT	questionable_source	2017-07-06	Anne Petermann, executive director at the Global Justice Ecology Project, said the tradition has been for the government to rubberstamp genetically-engineered organisms "but this would be the first time they are approving a genetically-engineered forest tree."	Both were fed by eucalyptus plantations."	Activists from the South Pacific Islands, Southern Asia and North and South America weighed in, rejecting all genetically-engineered trees, including field trials.	Those studies have not been done, and that is one of the major points in the comments."	Petermann said another red flag is wildfires.		250,000 Americans, 500 groups reject genetically-modified eucalyptus trees Over 250,000 Americans and 500 organizations submitted comments rejecting the US Department of Agriculture's (USDA) proposal to approve genetically-engineered eucalyptus trees for planting. If approved, the trees would be planted in seven southern states. Public comments on the USDA's draft environmental impact statement (dEIS) closed on Wednesday. The agency will now evaluate the comments for a final review on whether to approve the GE trees. Activists from the South Pacific Islands, Southern Asia and North and South America weighed in, rejecting all genetically-engineered trees, including field trials. Critics of the dEIS said the USDA downplayed the risks posed by the GE trees. The agency predicts GE eucalyptus plantations would cover over 1 million across seven states from coastal South Carolina to eastern Texas. The GE eucalyptus trees, developed by biotech companies such as FuturaGene and ArborGen, are designed to tolerate freezing temperatures and to help feed demand for pulp and paper production, biomass pellets for electricity and fuel for cars. Anne Petermann, executive director at the Global Justice Ecology Project, said the tradition has been for the government to rubberstamp genetically-engineered organisms "but this would be the first time they are approving a genetically-engineered forest tree." She said ArborGen asked for approval to legalize the trees six years ago." They (USDA) are really taking their time with it becuase they know there is overwhelming public opposition to [the plan]," Petermann told RT. Petermann said there is a lack of independent research on the long-term, or even short-term, consequences of putting genetically-engineered trees out into the environment, and that the risks could be significant." e are talking about forest ecosystems that have evolved over millions of years," Petermann said. "Planting eucalyptus trees, with mutations in their genomes - how are these organisms going to interact with the forest? How are they going to interact with soil micro-organisms? Those studies have not been done, and that is one of the major points in the comments." Petermann said if the studies were to be done they would have to be carried out over the full life of the tree, between 50 to 100 years. As that is not likely to happen, she said "there is no way to know the full scope of the risks." Eucalyptus trees are the number one industrial tree plantation used in Latin America, Africa and Asia, traditionally in tropical areas, where commerce appreciates their fast growth and versatility." he forest products industry is worth $400 billion a year. This technology is worth billions of dollars a year. If you can increase yields by 40 percent, you can greatly reduce prices. Eucalyptus today are harvested at seven years – in Brazil we are looking to produce the same sized trees in five and a half years," Stanley Hirsch, chief executive of the Israeli biotech company FuturaGene, told the Guardian in 2012 over its plans to plant GM eucalyptus in Brazil. Documented as an invasive species around the world, the trees have escaped the limits of their plantations in South Africa and shown up in native grasslands, and in Chile where they are showing up in the forests. In the US, the trees only grow in Southern Florida and California, hence the need for a genetically-engineered variety to withstand temperature variations in other states. Petermann said another red flag is wildfires. She points to the massive wildlife that hit Portugal last month that left 60 people dead, and one that happened in Chile in January. Both were fed by eucalyptus plantations." ucalyptus is extremely flammable," said Petermann. "Combine that with dry conditions, which these trees exacerbate because they drink so much, you end with these incredible firestorms. The US southeast is already experiencing repeated droughts, it is already experiencing heatwaves, it is the last place to plant a eucalyptus plantation." Among other commentators was former NASA scientist Kate Cato, who lives in the US south and has mapped parts of Mars. She said it was clear that the planet once had rivers and great amounts of water, and possibly an atmosphere similar to ours, "but a global catastrophe had happened." She said the effects of invasive species such as kudzu, lionfish and Australian pines have already caused chaos in the southern states where they lack predators and displace native plants and animals, and already cost the states millions of dollars in losses and eradication.	False
89	vox	left_bias	2019-09-03	(Vox's David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points.	And there's always the risk that it could devolve into rote recitals of platitudes.	com.	Much of the discussion was shallow and uninformative, partly a consequence of having to split attention across 20 candidates.A forum format with one-on-one discussions with the candidates could better get at these distinctions, forcing candidates to make the affirmative case for their own policies rather than sniping at those from other candidates.	And indeed many have voiced support for the Green New Deal and most have pledged to refuse donations from the fossil fuel industry.		CNN is giving 2020 Democrats 7 hours to talk about climate change CNN will host a seven-hour marathon of interviews with 10 presidential candidates about climate change on Wednesday beginning at 5 pm Eastern as part of its climate crisis town hall. A live stream of the town hall will air on CNN. com. You can also stream it via CNN apps on iOS, Android, Apple TV, Roku, Amazon Fire, Chromecast, and Android TV. The forum will also be broadcast on SiriusXM Channels 116, 454, 795, and the Westwood One Radio Network. Here is the format:The audience will be composed of selected Democrats, independents, and stakeholders. No public tickets will be issued. That a major television network would devote so much time to a single issue is a sign of how important climate change has become for Democrats and how successful activists have been in elevating the issue. Climate change has rocketed up the list of concerns for primary voters, with some polls showing climate change as the number one issue and other indicating that strong majorities want robust climate action from the White House. Activists groups like the Sunrise Movement have refused to let the Democratic National Committee ignore the issue, holding sit-ins outside their headquarters to demand a climate debate. The DNC responded that it will not hold a climate change debate for 2020 presidential contenders, nor will it allow candidates to attend a third-party debate. But CNN and MSNBC have found a loophole in the rules that still permits candidates to attend televised forums and town halls. CNN did not respond to requests for comment. MSNBC's climate forum is scheduled for September 19 and 20. In the past few months, candidates have been steadily releasing their own visions for how to limit warming this century. Washington Gov. Jay Inslee, who made climate change the centerpiece of his presidential campaign and put out the most comprehensive policy agenda, is now out of the race, giving other candidates some room to distinguish themselves on the issue. Several candidates, including Booker, Buttigieg, and Harris, are issuing new climate plans this week. For the most part, the Democratic presidential contenders agree that climate change demands a serious policy response and that the US needs to become carbon neutral by roughly the middle of the century. And indeed many have voiced support for the Green New Deal and most have pledged to refuse donations from the fossil fuel industry. The main differences among the candidates lie in how much political capital they intend to expend on fighting climate change and what they would do with executive authority. The town hall will give them an opportunity to present their plans in greater detail, and with more nuance. In the prior two rounds of presidential debates spanning more than eight hours, climate change received just 35 minutes of airtime. Much of the discussion was shallow and uninformative, partly a consequence of having to split attention across 20 candidates.A forum format with one-on-one discussions with the candidates could better get at these distinctions, forcing candidates to make the affirmative case for their own policies rather than sniping at those from other candidates. On the other hand, a candidate in the hot seat won't receive any direct challenges from their opponents. It would behoove the networks to focus their discussion on getting at these subtle differences among the candidates, like what executive orders they would sign, how high climate change ranks as a priority, and what measures would a candidate pursue to ensure a just transition to clean energy. (Vox's David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points.)CNN's climate change forum has immense potential to illuminate real differences among the candidates and inform the public about the often-weedy details of climate policy. However, it remains to be seen if there is an audience with a seven-hour attention span for a single issue. And there's always the risk that it could devolve into rote recitals of platitudes. Here's to hoping we learn something new.	False
403	cnn	left_bias	2018-08-23	"They're a matter of life or death."	Mullins says "coal cannot be clean," and that miners know firsthand."	We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue," he said.	At this year's State of the Union address, Trump talked about ending "the war on beautiful, clean coal."	In a New York Times op-ed video published Tuesday, Nick Mullins, a ninth-generation Appalachian from Virginia, said that if Trump wants to help the Appalachian mining communities that support him, "lowering emission standards is not the way to do it."		Coal miner: Trump's 'false promises' will 'only line the pockets' of executives A fifth-generation coal miner from Virginia has spoken out against President Donald Trump's rhetoric surrounding the coal mining industry, saying the President is making "false promises that are only going to line the pockets of coal executives." In a New York Times op-ed video published Tuesday, Nick Mullins, a ninth-generation Appalachian from Virginia, said that if Trump wants to help the Appalachian mining communities that support him, "lowering emission standards is not the way to do it." At this year's State of the Union address, Trump talked about ending "the war on beautiful, clean coal." Mullins says "coal cannot be clean," and that miners know firsthand." We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue," he said. "They're a matter of life or death." On Tuesday, the newly proposed Affordable Clean Energy Rule was announced , which would allow states to set their own emission standards for coal-fueled power plants. Throughout his campaign and presidency, Trump has lauded his plan to replace the Obama administration's climate change policies with rules and regulations that would be more friendly toward the coal industry. The Obama administration's Clean Power Plan made greenhouse gas emissions federally regulated for the first time.	False
415	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-04-12	The order instructs the EPA to consider what countries that don't border the United States are doing to reduce pollution, allowing the agency to compare U.S. regulations to those in developing nations like China and India.	"It could mean yet more pollution in their neighborhoods."	In what could be the most controversial part, the order requires the EPA's science advisers to consider the downside of cleaner air rules, something for which industry groups have clamored for years.	his is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters – it's nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science, gut our clean air protections, and put polluter profits ahead of our health," Sara Jordan, a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters, said in a statement.	Construction permitting is primarily a state-level issue; the language in the order, critics say, appears to be a dog whistle to polluters, suggesting the EPA would pull back on any oversight."		White House Abruptly Orders EPA To Loosen Clean Air Rules In Polluter Giveaway The executive order ― titled "Promoting Domestic Manufacturing and Job Creation ― Policies and Procedures Relating to Implementation of Air Quality Standards" ― reverses an Obama-era decision. The 2015 decision allowed the EPA to intervene in states that fail to meet National Ambient Air Quality Standards, forcing them to adopt federal regulatory plans to reduce ozone emissions that generally come from power plants, refineries and cement factories. It opens the door to drastic changes in how science is used to set clean air rules, disqualifying huge amounts of peer-reviewed public health research in favor of industry-backed studies in a move that builds on steps EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has already taken. The order requires the EPA to speed up reviews of state plans to reduce air pollution, setting a strict 18-month deadline, and complete reviews of all pre-construction permits for industry within a year. Construction permitting is primarily a state-level issue; the language in the order, critics say, appears to be a dog whistle to polluters, suggesting the EPA would pull back on any oversight." he purpose is that if states make determinations that are somewhat less than the rigor of what might be expected, EPA won't second guess it," Stan Meiburg, a former acting deputy EPA administrator who spent 39 years at the agency, told HuffPost by phone. "It's a go-ahead for industry that if they take their best shot at states, the EPA won't be getting in the way." The order instructs the EPA to consider what countries that don't border the United States are doing to reduce pollution, allowing the agency to compare U.S. regulations to those in developing nations like China and India. It also directs Pruitt to allow states to trade pollution permits, a move environmentalists warn could make offsets nearly impossible to track and police. In what could be the most controversial part, the order requires the EPA's science advisers to consider the downside of cleaner air rules, something for which industry groups have clamored for years. They argue the policies could raise electricity costs and make things like air conditioning more expensive. That directive is likely to prompt watchdog groups to sue. The Supreme Court ruled unanimously in 2001, in a decision written by late Justice Antonin Scalia, that the EPA cannot consider the costs of implementation when setting air quality standards. It marks the latest assault on clean air rules, putting poor people and communities of color particularly at risk. People living below the poverty line were exposed to 1.35 times more particulate matter than those living above it, according to a landmark EPA study released in February. People of color breathe in 1.2 times more particulate matter pollution, and black people, in particular, are on average exposed to 1.54 times more particulate matter pollution than the general pollution. The National Association of the Advancement of Colored People released a report in February that found black people are exposed to air that is 38 percent more polluted than white people on average, and they are 75 percent more likely to live in communities abutting industrial sites." eople who are most affected by air pollution are the most vulnerable and these policy changes would mean even less protection for those people," Janet McCabe, who served as the assistant administrator for the EPA's Office of Air and Radiation until 2017, told HuffPost by phone. "It could mean yet more pollution in their neighborhoods." The new order could put the administration at loggerheads with California regulators again. But the quiet rollout of the memorandum avoided swift criticisms. The California Air Resources Board told HuffPost the agency had not yet reviewed the ordered by Thursday afternoon." his is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters – it's nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science, gut our clean air protections, and put polluter profits ahead of our health," Sara Jordan, a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters, said in a statement.	False
876	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-10-05	In this new wave of "ethical investing," the total figure of divestiture for the church groups involved has not been disclosed, but is reportedly four times higher than a previous church record.	n a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical, cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity, it is necessary to recall the values ​​of custody of creation, the preferential option for the poor, and the peace that is built in everyday life, including with attention to the care of the common home," she said.	hope we will see more leaders like these 40 Catholic institutions commit, because while this decision makes smart financial sense, acting collectively to deliver a better future for everybody is also our moral imperative," she said.	he moral clarity of these 40 institutions is a source of deep joy," said Tomás Insua, the director of the Movement.	Pope Francis has been a vocal advocate of clean, renewable energy and the reduction of carbon emissions.	Earlier this year, Pope Francis momentarily departed from his denunciation of fossil fuels, offering a large donation of tons of cost-effective "fuel briquettes" to heat the homes of internally displaced persons (IDPs) in Ukraine. <sep> The Assisi diocese joined the dioceses of Caserta and Gubbio in this symbolic gesture, along with dozens of other Catholic organizations throughout the world, such as the Archdiocese of Cape Town, the Belgian bishops conference, the German Bank for Church and Caritas. <sep> His groundbreaking 2015 encyclical letter, Laudato Si, on care for the environment was the first teaching letter of its sort in the history of the Catholic Church. <sep> Coordinating these efforts is the World Catholic Climate Change Movement, which in January sponsored the first world conference on fossil fuel divestment from a Catholic perspective at Rome's Pontifical Lateran University." <sep> As part of the "Pope for Ukraine" initiative, Francis donated more than 2.5 tons of fuel per displaced family cared for by the parish of the Holy Theotokos in the village of Vilcha. <sep> The Franciscan monasterial complex in Assisi, the spiritual home of the Franciscan friars throughout the world, is among the 40 Catholic institutions and organizations jointly announcing their adherence to an international ecological campaign calling for the disinvestment from all fossil fuels in the hopes of combatting climate change. <sep> 	Catholic Institutions Make Record Divestment from Fossil Fuel Holdings Italian prime minister, Paolo Gentiloni, visited Assisi Wednesday to commemorate the feast of Italy's patron St. Francis, in conjunction with the town's announcement it was divesting itself of all oil, coal and gas holdings in a gesture aimed against commonly cited causes of manmade global warming. The Franciscan monasterial complex in Assisi, the spiritual home of the Franciscan friars throughout the world, is among the 40 Catholic institutions and organizations jointly announcing their adherence to an international ecological campaign calling for the disinvestment from all fossil fuels in the hopes of combatting climate change. The Mayor of Assisi, Stefania Proietti, indicated the city's extensive olive groves as an effective tool for "mitigating climate change" because of the tree's ability to absorb the large quantities of carbon dioxide it needs in order to grow and produce olives." n a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical, cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity, it is necessary to recall the values ​​of custody of creation, the preferential option for the poor, and the peace that is built in everyday life, including with attention to the care of the common home," she said. The Assisi diocese joined the dioceses of Caserta and Gubbio in this symbolic gesture, along with dozens of other Catholic organizations throughout the world, such as the Archdiocese of Cape Town, the Belgian bishops conference, the German Bank for Church and Caritas. In this new wave of "ethical investing," the total figure of divestiture for the church groups involved has not been disclosed, but is reportedly four times higher than a previous church record. Coordinating these efforts is the World Catholic Climate Change Movement, which in January sponsored the first world conference on fossil fuel divestment from a Catholic perspective at Rome's Pontifical Lateran University." he moral clarity of these 40 institutions is a source of deep joy," said Tomás Insua, the director of the Movement. "Their leadership is launching a path that the World Bank and its financial organs should follow. Considering that the World Bank is meeting these days in Washington, we hope its leaders will notice that the fossil-free movement has grown and is getting stronger." Christiana Figueres, the former UN climate tsar who helped negotiate the Paris climate accord, lauded the move as "a further sign we are on the way to achieving our collective mission"."  hope we will see more leaders like these 40 Catholic institutions commit, because while this decision makes smart financial sense, acting collectively to deliver a better future for everybody is also our moral imperative," she said. Earlier this year, Pope Francis momentarily departed from his denunciation of fossil fuels, offering a large donation of tons of cost-effective "fuel briquettes" to heat the homes of internally displaced persons (IDPs) in Ukraine. As part of the "Pope for Ukraine" initiative, Francis donated more than 2.5 tons of fuel per displaced family cared for by the parish of the Holy Theotokos in the village of Vilcha. The combustible fuel briquettes reportedly were sufficient to heat the homes and apartments of more than a hundred resettled families throughout the heating season and into the coming winter as well. The politically incorrect gift highlighted the cost-effectiveness and ready availability of fossil fuels, which were responsible for powering the industrial revolution throughout the developed world. Pope Francis has been a vocal advocate of clean, renewable energy and the reduction of carbon emissions. His groundbreaking 2015 encyclical letter, Laudato Si, on care for the environment was the first teaching letter of its sort in the history of the Catholic Church. In that text, Francis wrote of an "urgent need" to take steps leading to the substitution of fossil fuels with alternative energy sources.	True
279	dailymail	questionable_source	2019-09-24	People are suffering, people are dying, entire ecosystems are collapsing, and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	''The eyes of future generations are on you and if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you.	I shouldn't be up here.	In her impassioned address yesterday she said: 'This is all wrong.	'Yet you have come to us young people for hope.		Greta Thunberg doesn't know how she will return to Sweden Teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg has already caused a sensation on her trip to North America, tearing into world leaders yesterday in an emotional speech at the United Nations and giving a death stare to Donald Trump. What is not yet clear is how the 16-year-old will get back to Sweden, because she refuses to travel on fuel-guzzling planes and the 60ft racing boat she travelled on is already back in Europe. Two crew members have flown to the U.S. to sail the Malizia II back across the Atlantic and it is not yet clear exactly when Thunberg will be going home. When she set off from Britain last month she admitted: 'I don't know yet how I will get home'. Non-stop flights from London to New York City take between eight to ten hours for a 3,470-mile journey. It equates to about 183,910 pounds of emissions per flight between the two cities and Thunberg refuses to add to the environmental cost. She has also persuaded her parents to stop flying, hampering her mother's career as an international opera singer.'My generation won't be able to fly other than for emergencies, in a foreseeable future if we are to be the least bit serious' about limiting global warming, she has previously said. Thunberg also refuses to travel aboard a cruise ship, as they are also notoriously big polluters. The Malizia II is now back in France after sailing back from New York without Thunberg. Unless the Malizia II returns to North America she will have to find a different mode of transport back across the Atlantic when she eventually leaves. In the meantime, she plans to promote her climate agenda across North America. This week she will travel from New York to Montreal to join a school climate strike in Canada on what is expected to be a day of global protests. She also hopes to visit Mexico, and is due in Chile for a climate summit in December, travelling across the Americas by bus and train. The 16-year-old is taking a year out of school to lobby for climate action after starting the school strike movement in Sweden last August. She skipped school for the first three weeks after term began and then took Fridays off to spend the day outside Sweden's parliament with a sign labelled 'School strike for climate'. Her protests have inspired wealthy donors to contribute to a Climate Emergency Fund to support the protests and the simultaneous Extinction Rebellion movement. Its donors include heiress Aileen Getty, American philanthropist Trevor Neilson, and filmmaker Rory Kennedy, a member of the political Kennedy clan. The Swedish teenager named this week's UN Climate Action Summit and the Chile conference in December as her main reasons for crossing the Atlantic. She said last year she had been invited to speak around the world but refused to make the necessary flights. But in June she said 'it looks like a large part of our future will probably be decided in New York and Santiago' and agreed to travel to North America on the yacht. Pierre Casiraghi, the grandson of Monaco's late Prince Rainier III and American actress Grace Kelly, and fellow yachtsman Boris Herrmann offered her passage on the Malizia II. She arrived last month after a two-week journey aboard the racing yacht. Thunberg documented parts of her journey on Twitter, where she included videos of choppy weather conditions, photos of herself and the crew, and commentaries about climate change. Last week she joined a school strike in New York City where school officials allowed pupils the day off to attend the protest. In her impassioned address yesterday she said: 'This is all wrong. I shouldn't be up here. I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean.'Yet you have come to us young people for hope. How dare you? 'You have stolen my dreams, my childhood with your empty words.'Yet I'm one of the lucky ones. People are suffering, people are dying, entire ecosystems are collapsing, and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth. How dare you?''The eyes of future generations are on you and if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you. We will not let you get away with this.'Trump sent a mocking tweet, saying: 'She seems like a very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future. So nice to see!'Fewer than half the 136 heads of government or state in New York this week to attend the UN General Assembly attended on Monday. Ahead of the conference, the United Nations issued a release saying 66 countries vowed to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, along with 10 regions, 102 cities, and scores of businesses.	False
92	shareblue	left_bias	2019-06-19	Published with permission of The American Independent.	The new rule "is really a dereliction of duty — moral, ethical, but also legal," Andres Restrepo, a lawyer with the Sierra Club's Environmental Law Program, told the Post.	That's the exact opposite of what Trump regularly claims.	At his big rally Tuesday in Orlando, Trump made a similar false claim: "We have among the cleanest and sharpest — crystal clean, you've heard me say it, I want it crystal clean — air and water anywhere on Earth."	His lies don't make it cleaner, and his policies are on track to make it worse.		Trump brags about 'crystal clean' air — but his own EPA admits it's gotten dirtier Trump regularly brags about making America's air cleaner, but evidence from his own Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) shows the opposite is happening: The air we breathe is getting dirtier. New EPA data shows that since 2016, a decades-long trend of improving air quality has started to backslide. In both 2017 and 2018, the number of unhealthy air days in metropolitan areas increased 15% compared to the last four years of President Obama's administration, the Associated Press reported Tuesday. That's the exact opposite of what Trump regularly claims. During his embarrassing trip to Ireland in early June, Trump said, "We have the cleanest air in the world, in the United States, and it's gotten better since I'm president." At his big rally Tuesday in Orlando, Trump made a similar false claim: "We have among the cleanest and sharpest — crystal clean, you've heard me say it, I want it crystal clean — air and water anywhere on Earth." Air pollution leads to the premature death of 100,000 Americans every year, the AP reports, and Trump's own EPA shows not only worse air pollution, but a significant increase in the two worst categories: "very unhealthy" and "hazardous" conditions. During the Trump administration, U.S. cities saw air pollution in one of these two categories nearly 140 times, which is almost three times as often as the average from 2013 to 2016. In fact, the AP notes that the four years from 2013 and 2016, Obama's second term in office, were a "clean air heyday" for America that boasted the fewest unhealthy air days since 1980. That heyday appears to be over for now. To make matters worse, on Wednesday the EPA finalized what will be its "biggest climate policy rollback," according to the Washington Post. The new rule will allow coal plants to spew more pollution into the air than a previous rule put in place by President Obama. The new rule "is really a dereliction of duty — moral, ethical, but also legal," Andres Restrepo, a lawyer with the Sierra Club's Environmental Law Program, told the Post. Scientists are unclear as to the exact reasons air pollution has gotten worse under Trump, but they say it's very clear that his policies will make the situation worse." There is zero reason to expect any other outcome" than worsening air quality if Trump continues to roll back regulations, Neil Donahue, an engineering professor at Carnegie Mellon University, told the AP. While Trump has been in office, the air has gotten dirtier. His lies don't make it cleaner, and his policies are on track to make it worse. Published with permission of The American Independent.	False
97	vox	left_bias	2019-03-29	It's true, of course, that you don't want to do a completely naive associational study and then leap to big policy conclusions from it.	But most regulations that reduce carbon emissions also reduce much more localized soot — and taking into account the fact that soot has a marked tendency to kill people who live nearby the emissions sources is important to making the cost-benefit analysis math work.	Both the public health research and the EPA debate are largely focused on the question of soot's ability to kill people (through, e.g., asthma), but there's a big emerging set of empirical economics studies suggesting that fine particulates have a wider range of adverse cognitive impacts and are significantly underrated.	This is critically important for two main reasons.	But there are, instead, lots of quasi-experiments and statistical matching studies, and they all find that air pollution is worse than we thought.		Trump EPA appointees want more air pollution — that's a very bad idea Climate change garners most of the headlines, but the Trump administration is pushing a much larger and broader pro-pollution agenda whose latest manifestation is a push at the EPA to overturn a long-established scientific consensus that fine particulate pollution (colloquially "soot") kills people. This is critically important for two main reasons. One is that for decades the EPA has been regulating various sources of particulate emissions and the science around how harmful they are plays a role in driving how strict those regulations become. The other is that particulate emissions play a key role in the bureaucratic politics of climate change. Because carbon dioxide emissions are global and the consequences of climate change are also global, it is generally hard to demonstrate that cutting a given source of greenhouse gas emissions will have large benefits to Americans. But most regulations that reduce carbon emissions also reduce much more localized soot — and taking into account the fact that soot has a marked tendency to kill people who live nearby the emissions sources is important to making the cost-benefit analysis math work. Tony Cox, an industry consultant Trump tapped to lead the EPA's Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee, argues that the EPA's agency's current standards for evaluating this question does not feature enough causal rigor. He wants to abandon the current "weight of the evidence" standards that allows for a wide range of evidence to be considered, with credibility weighted according to the quality of study design, in favor of a very narrow class of studies that employ "manipulative causation" methods. But as Francesca Dominici, a biostatistician at Harvard's T.H. Chan School of Public Health, writes with researcher Gretchen Goldman in a new Science essay on the subject, this loads the dice against demonstrating harms, because "randomized control trials are not possible (or ethical) when studying environmental hazards." In other words, you can't get a group of volunteers together and then randomly assign half of them to have the air they breathe be deliberately poisoned just to see how bad the poison is. You have to rely on ways of exploiting random variation through methods like observational data, time series, and quasi-experiments. It's true, of course, that you don't want to do a completely naive associational study and then leap to big policy conclusions from it. But public health researchers are aware of the limits of the data available and use matching, statistical controls, and other standard techniques to try to get a clearer picture of what's going on. Barring all that evidence would, as Dominic writes, "place a nearly unattainable burden of proof on the scientific community" and totally undermine the EPA's legal mandate to protect vulnerable people. Both the public health research and the EPA debate are largely focused on the question of soot's ability to kill people (through, e.g., asthma), but there's a big emerging set of empirical economics studies suggesting that fine particulates have a wider range of adverse cognitive impacts and are significantly underrated. In other words, the consequences of rolling back the war on soot could be substantially worse than the mortality impacts alone imply. Economists, like public health researchers, are limited by their inability to deliberately poison people in order to study the impact of the poisoning. Consequently, none of the studies I've read on particulate pollution and cognitive impairment quite reaches "gold standard" levels of scientific evidence. But there are, instead, lots of quasi-experiments and statistical matching studies, and they all find that air pollution is worse than we thought. In addition to killing small numbers of people, air pollution harms large numbers of people in small but meaningful ways:This is an emerging field of study, and it would obviously benefit from some further inquiry. That said, it appears to be the case that fine particulate pollution induces cognitive impairments in school children, white collar workers, blue collar workers, and the elderly — in other words, all people at all stages of life. Each of these impacts independently suggests that we are currently allowing too much air pollution, and they also cry out for more research that attempts to assess the long-term cumulative impact of pollutants that appear to induce cognitive problems throughout the life cycle. The question of exactly how much we are under-regulating particulates seems somewhat open to me, but the sign of the error is very clear.	False
383	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-11-05	Supporters say the ballot measure would protect public health, but opponents say it's a red herring meant as a de facto ban on fracking.	Polls show strong support for Proposition 112.	Many opponents of offshore drilling ended up opposing the measure because of its prohibition on vaping indoors."	Tom Steyer Is Behind Ballot Measures In Arizona and NevadaLiberal billionaire Tom Steyer's campaign group, NextGen Climate Action is backing ballot measures in Arizona and Nevada that would require both states to get 50 percent of their electricity from renewables, like wind and solar.	Steyer's group has spent more than $10 million in support of Nevada's green ballot measure.		These Six States Have Energy And Global Warming On The Ballot This Election There is a wave of energy-related ballot initiatives for voters to weigh in on this election year. Voters from Washington to Florida will be able to partake in important energy policy decisions for their states. Will Washington become the first state to tax carbon dioxide emissions? Will California undo a gas tax increase passed just seven months ago?The Daily Caller News Foundation lays out everything one needs to know about the six most important energy battles this election. (RELATED: Severe Storms Brewing For Election Day, Threaten To Swing Tight Races)Washington voters will decide whether or not to tax carbon dioxide emissions, a policy championed by Democratic Gov. Jay Inslee and many Democrats and environmentalists who want to fight man-made global warming. The ballot measure, called Initiative 1631, would tax carbon dioxide emissions from industrial sources at $15 per ton in 2020, which would increase every year to reduce emissions. Supporters say the measure could raise more than $1 billion in revenue. Opponents, however, point out a carbon tax would raise the price of virtually every good while having no impact on future global warming. The tax would cost households and extra $175 per year in 2020, according to some estimates. The battle of Initiative 1631 has become the most expensive in state history, so far drawing $45 million from both sides of the policy. Carbon tax opponents, led by the oil and gas industry, pumped $30 million into opposing the ballot measure, and proponents have spent $15 million. An October poll found 50 percent of Washington voters favored the carbon tax, while 36 percent opposed it. Colorado voters could end up banning hydraulic fracturing in most of the state. Polls show strong support for Proposition 112. The ballot measure, if enacted, would prohibit oil and gas drilling within 2,500 feet of any building or "vulnerable" area, including waterways and playgrounds. That's more than double the current state buffer for oil and gas operations.A September poll put support for Proposition 112 at 60 percent, but many prominent Democrats have come out against the measure. Democratic opponents include former Interior Secretary Ken Salazar and former Gov. Bill Ritter. Supporters say the ballot measure would protect public health, but opponents say it's a red herring meant as a de facto ban on fracking. The measure would ban oil and gas drilling on more than 80 percent of non-federal lands in the state, experts said. California voters seem poised to repeal a gas tax hike signed into law only seven months ago that added an extra 12 cents per gallon and up to a $175 license fee for vehicle registration.A University of California-Berkeley poll from October found nearly 58 percent of voters opposed the gas tax increase. The political battle heated up that month when gas tax opponents threatened to recall Attorney General Xavier Becerra, a Democrat, for allegedly trying to mislead voters about the proposal. Gas tax repeal proponents are also backing an initiative to halt spending on California's high-speed rail project and use any unspent funds to improve roads. Tom Steyer Is Behind Ballot Measures In Arizona and NevadaLiberal billionaire Tom Steyer's campaign group, NextGen Climate Action is backing ballot measures in Arizona and Nevada that would require both states to get 50 percent of their electricity from renewables, like wind and solar. Steyer pumped more than $20 million into the campaign, but opponents accused Steyer's group of using "forged" and "fake" signatures to get the green energy mandate on Arizona's ballot. Steyer's group has spent more than $10 million in support of Nevada's green ballot measure. Pinnacle West, the parent company of Arizona's largest utility, spent more than $30 million opposing the green energy mandate, according to Ballotpedia. Under current laws, Arizona is required to get 15 percent of its electricity from renewables, and Nevada utilities are required to get 25 percent of their power from green sources. Florida To Decide On Offshore Drilling … And Vaping?Florida's Amendment 9 ballot measure, if enacted, would ban offshore oil and gas drilling in state waters and ban e-cigarettes from being used in enclosed workplaces. The measure is backed by Democratic and environmental groups opposed to offshore drilling, and apparently vaping indoors. It's opposed by Republicans, the oil and gas industry and the Consumer Advocates for Smoke-Free Alternatives Association, a group that advocates for e-cigarettes. Opponents have attacked the ballot measure for its odd pairing of issues — smoking and offshore drilling. Many opponents of offshore drilling ended up opposing the measure because of its prohibition on vaping indoors." hile our editorial board opposes offshore drilling in state waters, we also are philosophically opposed to the Constitution Revision Commission's 'bundling' of these unrelated issues into a single amendment," the editorial board of Treasure Coast Newspapers wrote in October.	False
453	vox	left_bias	2018-02-22	"Enforcement matters, especially to the people who live and work next to plants that continue to release more pollution than the law allows."	Check out this chart:The fines come from consent decrees, a type of legal settlement where a party has to take a specific action but does not have to admit fault or liability.	The consent decrees here involve violations of federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act.	ess enforcement doesn't mean there aren't a whole lot of violations that are out there," said Eric Schaeffer, executive director of the Environmental Integrity Project, who led the civil enforcement office at the EPA under Presidents Clinton and Bush, in a call with reporters.	(This tally doesn't include penalties from EPA's Superfund program, criminal cases, or the administrative actions that EPA takes to resolve smaller violations.		How Trump is letting polluters off the hook, in one chart In his first year as head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt has made a huge mark, shrinking his agency and repealing as many Obama-era environmental regulations as possible. And as I pointed out last month in this feature story, he's also overseen a drastic slowdown in the day-to-day work of the agency. Key offices remain vacant and the implementation of new environmental rules has stalled, effectively throttling the agency. But one of EPA's most important jobs is to enforce civil penalties for companies that breach limits for hazardous chemicals like sulfur dioxide and hydrochloric acid. And one new measure of Pruitt's foot-dragging that's just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately. According to a new report from the Environmental Integrity Project, a watchdog group that advocates for enforcement of environmental laws, the amount of fines collected by Trump's EPA has plummeted compared to the agency under the past three presidents in their first year in office. Check out this chart:The fines come from consent decrees, a type of legal settlement where a party has to take a specific action but does not have to admit fault or liability. The consent decrees here involve violations of federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act. (This tally doesn't include penalties from EPA's Superfund program, criminal cases, or the administrative actions that EPA takes to resolve smaller violations.)The number of civil cases filed by the EPA to collect these fines in the first place has also declined. In President Clinton's first year, there were 73; under Bush, 112; under Obama, 71. In 2017, there were just 48 cases. What this means is that the EPA is not going after polluters like it used to." ess enforcement doesn't mean there aren't a whole lot of violations that are out there," said Eric Schaeffer, executive director of the Environmental Integrity Project, who led the civil enforcement office at the EPA under Presidents Clinton and Bush, in a call with reporters. He noted that many of these civil cases take months to complete, so some of the cases completed under Trump started under Obama. In a consent decree reached with Exxon Mobil last October, the EPA boasted that the company would spend $300 million to install pollution controls, but Schaeffer noted that this total includes measures installed as far back as 2013. And it's likely enforcement will decline further for ongoing environmental investigations." any of those cases will drop out of sight if Congress agrees to cut the agency's enforcement budget by 17 percent, as President Trump has proposed," according to the report. "Enforcement matters, especially to the people who live and work next to plants that continue to release more pollution than the law allows." The EPA did not respond to a request for comment.	False
479	bbc	left_center_bias	2018-11-13	Sometimes, you do fight fire with fire.	This fire moved so fast - I don't think anybody did anything wrong," Ms Schori says when asked whether those forced to abandon vehicles and escape on foot could have acted differently."	The majority could be attributed to humans, though only 8% were caused by arson.	"It should be noted that 2% of fires burn 98% of the area."	And straying away from natural burning cycles has also contributed to the lethality of recent fires, Prof Peterson says.		California wildfires: Key questions answered In the last year alone, California has seen catastrophic wildfires burn thousands of acres. On Tuesday, the ongoing Camp Fire in Northern California became the state's deadliest blaze in history. How do these deadly fires start, and why is California so susceptible?Officials define wildfires, or wildland fires, as any fire occurring on undeveloped land. Forest fires are uncontrolled wildfires burning in lands covered at least in part by timber or flammable vegetation. In nature, two things can spark wildfires: lava and lightning. According to the National Park Service, 90% of wildfires in the US are caused by humans - whether by unattended campfires, burning debris, cigarettes, or arson. About 2% of California's 2,816 wildfires in 2016 were caused by lightning, according to data from the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (Cal Fire). The majority could be attributed to humans, though only 8% were caused by arson. According to Prof David Peterson of the University of Washington, a former senior researcher with the US Forest Service, fires in the region have not necessarily increased in frequency in the last 100 years - but the area affected has." The area burned annually has been higher during the past 30 years or so," he told the BBC. "It should be noted that 2% of fires burn 98% of the area." In California, recent years have seen a combination of extremely high temperatures, strong winds, a long drought, and population growth causing lethal, fast-moving blazes. Last year, the state had over 9,500 wildfires that burned over a million acres, according to the National Interagency Fire Center, and had the highest number of homes and buildings lost in one state. And straying away from natural burning cycles has also contributed to the lethality of recent fires, Prof Peterson says. Keeping fires from starting in Western forests has caused fuel to accumulate "far beyond" historical levels." Therefore, when fires occur they can burn hotter," he says. "These high-intensity fires can cause rapid and in some cases long-term changes in vegetation, making it more difficult for the ecosystem to recover." Once evacuation orders are issued by local law enforcement, residents generally have hours to leave, Cal Fire information officer Kathleen Schori told the BBC." But in those initial stages of fire, you may have minutes," she added. Fleeing in a vehicle is ideal as most wildfires cannot be outrun. But the Camp Fire's especially rapid spread, fuelled by high winds, made the situation even more dangerous." This fire moved so fast - I don't think anybody did anything wrong," Ms Schori says when asked whether those forced to abandon vehicles and escape on foot could have acted differently." During the initial phases, it was burning 80 miles in an hour." She stressed the importance of following evacuation orders immediately, especially with fast-moving blazes." If you don't evacuate and it becomes a rescue situation, then our firefighters are taken away from the firefight and moved to the rescue." Sometimes, you do fight fire with fire. In addition to old-fashioned water and flame retardant (delivered from ground-level and above the flames by aircraft), sometimes firefighters have to burn more to quell the flames. Intentionally burning areas around a wildfire can help starve the blaze and control its direction. Clearing out brush and flammable material from an area to create "firebreaks" is another way to achieve the same." Ninety-eight percent of fires are small and/or suppressed quickly," Prof Peterson says. "The other 2% are very challenging when they get large, and are almost impossible to put out, at least until it rains." Ms Schori of Cal Fire said that with wind-driven blazes like the Camp Fire, officials often have no choice but to wait for conditions to improve." There are never enough firefighters to combat a fire that's moving as fast as this was moving," she says." You have to deploy your resources on each side [of the fire] and continue to construct lines. And when that wind stops, then you can safely get in front it." Prof Peterson says there is no hard evidence that climate change has affected US wildfires - yet." We expect that there will be significant effects in future decades as the climate continues to warm," he told the BBC.A warming climate, Prof Peterson explained, would increase the duration of the fire season, and more droughts would in turn create more wildfire fuel. Globally, the length of the wildfire season has already increased by nearly 19% between 1978 and 2013." By around 2050, fires may burn two to three times more area than they have historically." According to 2017 data from Verisk Analytics, 4.5 million US homes were in areas of high or extreme wildfire risk - and over 2 million of those homes were in California. Damage caused by wildfires has cost $5.1bn in the last decade, Verisk found. In California, homeowners who do not qualify for private insurance coverage can opt into a statewide pool, called the Fair Access to Insurance Requirements (FAIR) plan. FAIR is comprised of all property and casualty insurers in California and is not run by a state agency.	False
601	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-04-23	He's even suggested that throwing global warming skeptics in jail could be a potential solution, during an interview with the conservative Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow.	Science is based on observation, Happer said, "[a]nd if you observe what's happening to, for example, the temperature, the temperature is not rising nearly as fast as the alarmist computer models predicted.	He went on to say that Nye's views on science are backward.	He also suggested the 24-news channel should instead drown out people like Happer with 98 scientists who believe in man-made global warming."	Nye, for his part, has been one of the most belligerent apostle for the environmental movement.		Bill Nye Freaks Out After Scientist Schools Him On Climate Change Comedian Bill Nye accused CNN of doing a "disservice" to its viewers for inviting a well-respected physicist on Earth Day to argue about the legitimacy of man-made global warming. Nye, who is well known for hosting a children's TV show in the 1990s, scolded CNN's "New Day Saturday" panel Saturday for pitting his environmentalist pedigree against the climate skepticism of physicist William Happer. He also suggested the 24-news channel should instead drown out people like Happer with 98 scientists who believe in man-made global warming." nd I will say, much as I love the CNN, you're doing a disservice by having one climate change skeptic and not 97 or 98 scientists or engineers concerned about climate change," Nye said after the Princeton University academic suggested that it is a "myth" to believe that carbon dioxide is a pollutant causing widespread ecological destruction." arbon dioxide is a perfectly natural gas, it's just like water vapor, it's something that plants love. They grow better with more carbon dioxide, and you can see the greening of the earth already from the additional carbon dioxide in the atmosphere," he added. He went on to say that Nye's views on science are backward. Science is based on observation, Happer said, "[a]nd if you observe what's happening to, for example, the temperature, the temperature is not rising nearly as fast as the alarmist computer models predicted. It's much, much less — factors of two or three less." Happer, a science adviser to President Donald Trump, made public his skeptical views on climate change in January. He told reporters that climate change is "tremendously exaggerated," adding that climate research is important, "but I think it's become sort of a cult movement in the last five years." Nye, who has a degree in engineering but no professional science background, called Happer's position "completely wrong," and suggested the physicist was "cherry picking a certain model." Some scientists maintain people like Nye are the ones cherry-picking data. Climate models predicted Antarctic sea ice would shrink, and that climate change would boost snowfall in the southern hemisphere, yet neither of those predictions have panned out. In fact, scientists now say "natural variability" is overwhelming their models. Scientists with Columbia University's Earth Institute, for instance, found there's been almost no change in Antarctica's snowfall. They blamed strong "natural variability" for the models' failures. Scientists have also warned that Antarctica has been losing 147 gigatons of ice per year for years, mostly from melting on the northern Antarctic Peninsula. A NASA conducted in 2015, meanwhile, found Antarctica's ice sheet increased in mass from 1992 to 2008, which essentially offset ice melting in the western part of the Antarctic. Nye, for his part, has been one of the most belligerent apostle for the environmental movement. He's even suggested that throwing global warming skeptics in jail could be a potential solution, during an interview with the conservative Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	False
60	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-01-22	"People are unhappy, and that means they may make irrational decisions."	The research was published in the journal Nature Human Behaviour.	For China, pollution can rise into the 700s, which could be having a major impact on happiness.	They found a significantly negative correlation between pollution and happiness levels, with every increase in pollution above a healthy level bringing happiness down by 0.04 points out of 100.	It suggests that people were four points unhappier than they would have been without polluted levels.	But air pollution also has a broader impact on people's social lives and behavior, according Siqi Zheng, the Samuel Tak Lee Associate Professor in MIT's Department of Urban Studies"Pollution also has an emotional cost," said Dr Zheng. <sep> 	Air pollution affects happiness... Air pollution is not just bad for health also makes people unhappy, a new study has shown. Researchers at MIT and the University of Beijing discovered a direct link between the amount of particulates in the air and happiness. Research has previously shown that air pollution is damaging to health, cognitive performance, labor productivity, and educational outcomes. But air pollution also has a broader impact on people's social lives and behavior, according Siqi Zheng, the Samuel Tak Lee Associate Professor in MIT's Department of Urban Studies"Pollution also has an emotional cost," said Dr Zheng. "People are unhappy, and that means they may make irrational decisions." Researchers used pollution data from 144 Chinese cities and monitored general happiness of urban dwellers by looking at the mood using 210 million messages from China's largest microblogging platform, Sina Weibo. They found a significantly negative correlation between pollution and happiness levels, with every increase in pollution above a healthy level bringing happiness down by 0.04 points out of 100. On Monday some parts of London recorded Air Quality Index (AQI) levels of 151, more than 100 points above healthy limits. It suggests that people were four points unhappier than they would have been without polluted levels. For China, pollution can rise into the 700s, which could be having a major impact on happiness. Women were also found to me more sensitive to higher pollution levels than men, as were those on higher incomes. The research was published in the journal Nature Human Behaviour.	False
665	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-08-08	Most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in," Perry said.	Is man having an effect on it?'	The question should be, you know, just how much, and what are the policy changes that we need to make to affect that?	It concludes that temperatures in the U.S. have risen sharply, by 1.6 degrees Fahrenheit, over the last 150 years and that it is "extremely likely that most of the global mean temperature increase since 1951 was caused by human influence on climate."	"I mean, the fact is, this shouldn't be a debate about, 'Is the climate changing?		Federal Scientists' Startling Climate Report Released Before Trump Can Bury It The New York Times published an unreleased draft of the report Monday. The 543-page report was written by scientists from 13 federal agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. It concludes that temperatures in the U.S. have risen sharply, by 1.6 degrees Fahrenheit, over the last 150 years and that it is "extremely likely that most of the global mean temperature increase since 1951 was caused by human influence on climate." Evidence for a changing climate abounds, from the top of the atmosphere to the depths of the oceans," the report states. "Thousands of studies conducted by tens of thousands of scientists around the world have documented changes in surface, atmospheric, and oceanic temperatures; melting glaciers; disappearing snow cover; shrinking sea ice; rising sea level; and an increase in atmospheric water vapor. Many lines of evidence demonstrate that human activities, especially emissions of greenhouse (heat-trapping) gases, are primarily responsible for recent observed climate changes." The report, completed this year and part of the National Climate Assessment, has already been approved by the National Academy of Sciences, according to the Times. Its release hinges on the Trump administration's approval, and one scientist who worked on the report told the Times that he and others feared the president would withhold it. Also, the frequency of extreme weather events, including heavy rain and heat waves, has increased and is very likely to continue to do so. And since 1880, global sea levels have risen 8 to 9 inches — roughly 3 of those inches since 1990 — with human activity playing a substantial role, according to the report. In a post to Twitter, Gavin Schmidt, a climate scientist and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, said that nothing in the report is surprising for people working in the field but that it may be "shocking to those that think [climate change] is just a future problem." The report delivers a strikingly different message than the one being pushed by Trump and his Cabinet members, who continue to downplay the urgency of the threat as they work toward "energy dominance." Since taking office, Trump — who famously called climate change "bullshit" and a Chinese "hoax" — has moved quickly to derail America's actions to combat climate change, including rolling back President Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan, a policy limiting greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. Trump has pegged himself as a savior of America's dying coal industry and has vowed to increase oil and gas production, opening now-protected areas of the Arctic and Atlantic oceans to drilling. In June he announced plans to pull the U.S. out of the historic Paris Agreement on climate change ― the international accord in which nearly 200 countries committed to slashing carbon emissions in an effort to prevent global temperatures from increasing 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels, the line scientists say the world must stay below to stave off the very worst effects of climate change. Meanwhile, his Cabinet members have refused to say whether Trump believes climate change is real and continue to question how much the scientific community understands about the threat and the role humans play in observed changes. In March, Environmental Protection Agency head Scott Pruitt told CNBC, "No, I would not agree that [carbon dioxide is] a primary contributor to the global warming that we see." And in June, Energy Secretary Rick Perry echoed Pruitt's comments, saying "no" when asked by CNBC whether he believes carbon dioxide "is the primary control knob for the temperature of the Earth and for climate." Most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in," Perry said. "I mean, the fact is, this shouldn't be a debate about, 'Is the climate changing? Is man having an effect on it?' Yeah, we are. The question should be, you know, just how much, and what are the policy changes that we need to make to affect that?"Also in June, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke said glaciers in Montana's Glacier National Park started melting "right after the end of the Ice Age" and that it has "been a consistent melt." He also dismissed the notion that government scientists can predict with certainty how much warming will occur by 2100 under a business-as-usual scenario.	False
151	politicususa	left_bias	2019-08-29	"If EPA moves forward with this reckless and sinister proposal, we will see them in court."	President Donald Trump, who insists he is an environmentalist, has also relaxed rules on carbon emissions from vehicles and intends to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris agreement on climate change.	The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions, a major factor in global warming.	Some large energy companies including BP favor federal regulation of methane, saying the regulatory certainty is preferable to a patchwork of varying rules by states and legal challenges by environmentalists.	Concern about climate has heightened in recent weeks amid fires in the Arctic and the Amazon rainforest and melting of ice in Greenland.		Trump responds to G7 by proposing easing Obama-era methane limits at oil and gas operations WASHINGTON (Reuters) – The Trump administration on Thursday proposed easing Obama-era limits on oil and gas industry emissions of methane, one of the main pollutants scientists link to climate change. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) said easing the 2016 regulation that targeted methane would save energy companies up to $123 million through 2025. The plan will undergo a period of public comment before being finalized, and environmental groups pledged court action to try to block repeal of the limits. The proposal "removes unnecessary and duplicative regulatory burdens from the oil and gas industry," EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said in a release. The EPA said it will keep rules issued in 2012 that limit emissions known as volatile organic compounds that cause smog and also control some methane emissions. Some large energy companies including BP favor federal regulation of methane, saying the regulatory certainty is preferable to a patchwork of varying rules by states and legal challenges by environmentalists. BP has said it is already taking steps to limit methane emissions. The move is the Trump administration's latest easing of rules designed to curb greenhouse gas emissions, including many put forth by his predecessor, President Barack Obama. President Donald Trump, who insists he is an environmentalist, has also relaxed rules on carbon emissions from vehicles and intends to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris agreement on climate change. Concern about climate has heightened in recent weeks amid fires in the Arctic and the Amazon rainforest and melting of ice in Greenland. Democrats seeking their party's nomination in the 2020 U.S. presidential election will participate in a series of town halls on climate next week. In 2016, Obama's EPA issued the first rule limiting methane emissions from new oil and gas fracking operations including transport equipment. Thursday's proposal would repeal those regulations. The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions, a major factor in global warming. The gas has more than 80 times the heat-trapping potential of carbon dioxide in the first 20 years after it escapes into the atmosphere, scientists say. Susan Dio, chairman and president of BP America, supported federal regulation of methane in an opinion piece in the Houston Chronicle earlier this year calling it the "the best way to help further reduce and ultimately eliminate methane emissions industrywide." Environmentalists vowed to sue the administration over the proposal. "We simply cannot protect our children and grandchildren from climate catastrophe if EPA lets this industry off scot-free," said David Doniger, a climate and clean energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council. "If EPA moves forward with this reckless and sinister proposal, we will see them in court."	False
361	drudgereport	right_bias	2018-07-09	This article originally appeared at PRI's The World.	And those two things are kind of in conflict.	There are factors and factors and factors."	So when you go to Texas, or you go to Iowa, you're generally just negotiating with a landowner, whether it's a farmer, whomever," says Beggar.	And that's really what we have here," says economist Robert Godby, director of the Center for Energy Economics and Public Policy at the University of Wyoming.		California eyes Wyoming wind power to feed energy appetite... Wyoming's economy is dominated by coal, other fossil fuels, and mineral extraction. The formula here has worked — residents in Wyoming enjoy among the highest per capita GDP in the nation. So naturally, there's been some hostility toward new sources of energy that could threaten that." It's a complicated history with wind," says Jeremiah Rieman, director of economic diversification strategy for Wyoming Gov. Matt Mead (R). "I think you're seeing a change. And certainly we're hearing the message loud and clear, as we go through this economic diversification strategy effort, that wind and renewables need to be a part of that." The push toward wind is playing out in a high-rise office building 100 miles south of Wyoming's capital in Denver. There, TransWest Express is laying out plans to build a 730-mile transmission line across the American West. CEO Bill Miller points to a map and the start of the project — 1,000 wind turbines to be built on a ranch in south-central Wyoming." It starts there and runs a little bit west and then due south into northwest Colorado," says Miller, tracing a line through Utah and then down south of Las Vegas. If all goes according to plan, in three years Miller says the winds of low-population Wyoming will be bringing electricity to where it's needed in California." To my knowledge, this is the largest transmission line development that has occurred in this country in probably 50 years." TransWest Express, which is part of the Anschutz Corporation owned by billionaire Phillip Anschutz, is looking to harness Wyoming's wind because, well, it's super windy. The winds howl in southeast Wyoming because they're rising at the continental divide, then pushing through a gap in the Rocky Mountains." So, if you remember your high school physics class there's this thing called the Venturi effect where you narrow something and that naturally speeds up an air flow. And that's really what we have here," says economist Robert Godby, director of the Center for Energy Economics and Public Policy at the University of Wyoming. Wyoming may have strong winds, but the state ranks just 16th for wind generation. Godby says Wyoming hasn't exactly made things attractive for developers: "We have the only wind generation tax in the country, where we actually tax people who produce electricity with wind." Meanwhile, many other states are creating incentives for wind development, for example by creating renewable portfolio standards that require a state to obtain a certain amount of its energy from sources like wind and solar."I think it's really unfair that Wyoming has this reputation for being hostile to wind or anti-wind," says Jason Beggar, director the Wyoming Infrastructure Authority, a state entity tasked with developing large transmission projects." It's not an anti-wind philosophy, it's just the philosophy of the state — we tax our natural resources to fund government." Beggar says it's tough to build in Wyoming because roughly half of the state is federally owned land." So when you go to Texas, or you go to Iowa, you're generally just negotiating with a landowner, whether it's a farmer, whomever," says Beggar. "Well, in Wyoming, you have to file permits with the federal government and that includes things [like] land use, wildlife mitigation, mineral disturbances. There are factors and factors and factors." Beggar says the Trump administration has shown a "willingness" to cut red tape and move things along more quickly. Meanwhile, conservationists and environmentalists have bristled at the rollback of regulations. There's another challenge facing Wyoming wind: climate change skepticism. Coal burns dirty and produces a lot of greenhouse gases. Many states are pushing renewable energy to move away from that. But in Wyoming, it's complicated." Climate change is a pretty tough subject to talk about with some people because it's a threat no matter how you look at it," says Robert Godby. "It's a threat to world climate, it's also a threat to people's livelihoods [in Wyoming]. And those two things are kind of in conflict. If you're a state like Wyoming where you produce so much fossil fuel, in particular coal, that's threatened by any sort of climate change policy we might put in place to reduce greenhouse gas emissions." Wyoming's governor, Matt Mead, professes skepticism on climate science, but not on the markets, which are moving away from dirtier-burning fuels like coal. That's why he's pushing for a more diversified economy. At the end of the day, the debate in Wyoming is really about jobs. Bill Miller says that when people learn about the tax revenues and jobs their transmission line and wind farm will bring to Wyoming, they like that." These are good, high-paying jobs. And when we finish this project, the permanent jobs are going to be roughly 150 people, well paid, fully benefitted jobs that are really a boon to those communities," says Miller. Wind projects in Wyoming won't come anywhere close to creating enough work to replace the coal industry. Still, the jobs are an important part of the state's broader diversification strategy." Roughly 60 percent of our youth, between the ages of 18 and 24, will not be here 10 years from now, and that's a trend we would like to see disappear," says Rieman. Whether new opportunities come from digging up coal or harnessing the wind, for job seekers in Wyoming, that detail may be of secondary importance. This article originally appeared at PRI's The World.	False
73	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-11-16	Leckie said there was something of a vicious circle when it came to medical prescriptions and climate-related disease."	The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) compared data on concentrations of pharmaceutical residue in water samples worldwide as well as prescribing trends and water purification regulations in various countries.	When animals and humans ingest medicines, up to 90 percent of active ingredients are excreted back into the environment.	Meds pose global environmental risk, experts warn...	There are growing fears that the unchecked use of antibiotics in both medicine and agriculture will have adverse effects on the environment and on human health.		Meds pose global environmental risk, experts warn... There are growing fears that the unchecked use of antibiotics in both medicine and agriculture will have adverse effects on the environment and on human health (AFP Photo/LOIC VENANCE)Paris (AFP) - Residues from billions of doses of antibiotics, painkillers and antidepressants pose a significant risk to freshwater ecosystems and the global food chain, a new analysis said Thursday. There are growing fears that the unchecked use of antibiotics in both medicine and agriculture will have adverse effects on the environment and on human health. When animals and humans ingest medicines, up to 90 percent of active ingredients are excreted back into the environment. Many medicines are simply discarded -- in the United States alone an estimated one third of the four billion drugs prescribed each year ends up as waste. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) compared data on concentrations of pharmaceutical residue in water samples worldwide as well as prescribing trends and water purification regulations in various countries. One study cited in its report estimates that 10 percent of all pharmaceuticals are potentially harmful to the environment -- including hormones, painkillers and antidepressants. The OECD said that antibiotic use for livestock is predicted to rocket by more than two thirds in the next decade, stoking concerns over antibiotic resistance. Human prescriptions are also set to drastically increase, according to the report." We're seeing constant engineering of new pharmaceuticals and seeing clinical practices evolve to include recommendations of earlier treatment and higher doses," said the lead report author Hannah Leckie. Another study cited said "extremely high" concentrations of pharmaceutical products had already been detected in water ways in China, India, Israel, South Korea and the United States. In Britain alone, ethinyloestradiol, diclofenac, ibuprofen, propranolol and antibiotics are now present in the run-off of 890 wastewater treatment plants at high enough levels to cause "adverse environmental effects", according to another study." The residues of pharmaceuticals have been detected in surface and ground water across the world," said Leckie." However there's still a lot we don't know about their occurence, and know even less about the concentrations we find." More than 700,000 people already die each year from drug-resistant infections. As the global population grows and ages and prescribing rates continue to climb, that figure is set to hit 10 million annually by 2050 -- higher than the number of people dying from cancer." Unless adequate measures are taken to manage the risks, pharmaceutical residues will increasingly be released into the environment as ageing populations, advances in healthcare, and intensification of meat and fish production spur the demand for pharmaceuticals worldwide," the report said. And the situation is set to get even more acute as climate change increases the spread and frequency of infectious diseases such as malaria and dengue. Leckie said there was something of a vicious circle when it came to medical prescriptions and climate-related disease." Human activity such as population (growth) and transport combined with climate change increases antibacterial resistance... and therefore the need for more pharmaceuticals."	False
448	politicususa	left_bias	2018-11-03	his is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights," Olson said in court papers.	Aiken said in an Oct. 15 ruling that although the case raised questions about the role of the judiciary delving into a matter of policy those concerns were not enough to warrant a dismissal of the entire case.	Conservative Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch indicated they would have granted the administration's request.	The administration has said a courtroom is not the appropriate venue for a debate on climate change policy."	Circuit Court of Appeals.		Supreme Court rejects Trump administration bid to halt climate trial WASHINGTON (Reuters) – The U.S. Supreme Court on Friday rejected for now a bid by the President Donald Trump's administration to block a trial in a lawsuit filed by young activists who have accused the U.S. government of ignoring the perils of climate change. The loss for the administration means it now faces a high-profile examination of U.S. climate change policy during the trial that was due to begin on Oct. 29 in Eugene, Oregon but has since been postponed by the judge. Chief Justice John Roberts on Oct. 19 had temporarily put the case on hold while the court as a whole decided how to proceed. The Supreme Court's three-page order noted that the administration may still have grounds to take its arguments to the San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Conservative Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch indicated they would have granted the administration's request. There was no indication how Trump's new Supreme Court appointee, conservative Brett Kavanaugh, voted on the issue. In the lawsuit, 21 activists, ages 11 to 22, said federal officials violated their rights to due process under the U.S. Constitution by failing to adequately address carbon pollution such as emissions from the burning of fossil fuels. The lawsuit was filed in 2015 against former President Barack Obama and government agencies in a federal court in Eugene, Oregon. Both the Obama and Trump administrations have failed in efforts to have the lawsuit thrown out. The administration has said a courtroom is not the appropriate venue for a debate on climate change policy." his suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process, by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions," Trump administration Solicitor General Noel Francisco said in court papers. Francisco noted that the plaintiffs are seeking to hold the U.S. government liable for the cumulative effects of carbon dioxide emissions "from every source in the world over decades." Lawyers for the young activists, led by Julia Olson of a Eugene-based group called Our Children's Trust that brought the lawsuit, have said their clients have suffered "irreparable harm" from the effects of a changing climate." his is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights," Olson said in court papers. On July 30, the high court rejected an earlier application by the Trump administration, calling it premature. Eugene, Oregon-based federal Judge Ann Aiken has repeatedly allowed the case to move forward to trial over the objections of the government. The trial will proceed if neither the high court nor the 9th Circuit intervene. Aiken said in an Oct. 15 ruling that although the case raised questions about the role of the judiciary delving into a matter of policy those concerns were not enough to warrant a dismissal of the entire case.	False
194	npr	left_center_bias	2019-11-04	And so for us to be the exception on this issue is holding the world back.	That's one of the ironies of all this," Light says.	We're a big country with a lot of power and a lot of influence around the world.	When the Paris Agreement was being negotiated, the U.S. delegation pushed for more transparency and accountability to make sure the countries that signed on would actually do what they promised."	The U.S. even helped spearhead language that would hold countries accountable for the promises they made, in part to help guard against regime changes and other global political turmoil.		U.S. Formally Begins To Leave The Paris Climate Agreement U.S. Formally Begins To Leave The Paris Climate AgreementThe Trump administration has formally notified the United Nations that the U.S. is withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement. The withdrawal will be complete this time next year, after a one-year waiting period has elapsed." We will continue to work with our global partners to enhance resilience to the impacts of climate change and prepare for and respond to natural disasters," Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a statement Monday. Nearly 200 countries signed on to the agreement in 2015 and made national pledges to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Each country set its own goals, and many wealthy countries, including the U.S., also agreed to help poorer countries pay for the costs associated with climate change. The U.S. is now the only country to pull out of the pact." The United States is not cooperating with the rest of the world on dealing with climate change," says Andrew Light, a former climate official in the State Department who helped develop the Paris Agreement. The agreement was designed to be easier to join than to leave. The U.S. even helped spearhead language that would hold countries accountable for the promises they made, in part to help guard against regime changes and other global political turmoil. Indeed, in the years since the pact was created, many key international players, including Brazil, China, Japan and India, have experienced economic or political upheaval, but none has withdrawn from the Paris Agreement as a result. President Trump originally announced his intention to withdraw from the deal in the summer of 2017, shortly after he took office. At the time he said, "As of today, the United States will cease all implementation" of the agreement, including federal policies meant to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as well as U.S. contributions to the international climate fund for poorer nations." These agreements are just only as good as the commitments from each country," Light says. The U.S. had pledged to reduce national greenhouse gas emissions by about a quarter by 2025, compared with 2005 levels. The country is not on track to achieve that goal. In the intervening years, the Trump administration has systematically attempted to roll back federal limits on carbon emissions, including rules about how much pollution can be emitted by power plants, cars and trucks." The reality is, to really deliver on our climate goals, we do need strong federal action," says Rachel Cleetus of the Union of Concerned Scientists. "The unfortunate reality is U.S. carbon emissions actually rose last year." This isn't the first time the U.S. has reneged on an international climate agreement. The U.S. failed to ratify the 1997 Kyoto Protocol despite being instrumental in its creation. In this case, the U.S. became a signatory to the agreement but almost immediately signaled that it didn't intend to pursue its responsibilities. In both cases, the U.S. was instrumental in developing the international strategy." That's one of the ironies of all this," Light says. When the Paris Agreement was being negotiated, the U.S. delegation pushed for more transparency and accountability to make sure the countries that signed on would actually do what they promised." Even though we're the ones who have been pointing to these potential scenarios for problems with other countries, we seem to be the biggest problem," Light says." If we were a tiny country with small emissions, it wouldn't matter so much," he says. "But we're not. We're a big country with a lot of power and a lot of influence around the world. And so for us to be the exception on this issue is holding the world back."A formal withdrawal is reversible, however, if a future administration chooses to rejoin the Paris Agreement and pick up where the U.S. left off with its emissions reduction promises.	False
760	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-06-27	Green groups, however, said the move pandered to fossil fuel and farming interests and was part of an agenda to weaken clean water protections."	But while the rule was applauded by environmentalists for improving drinking water protections and aiding wildlife that relies on wetlands, it was attacked by some farmers and golf course operators who claimed it hindered their ability to manage their land.	his sets in motion a welcome correction to a deeply problematic regulation that ignored the careful balance that Congress struck between federal and state water regulation and constitutional limits on federal authority," said Hal Quinn, NMA president and chief executive.	Trump has called the rule "one of the worst examples of federal regulation" and a "massive power grab".	nce again, the Trump administration has agreed to do the bidding of the worst polluters in our country, and once again it's putting the health of American families and communities at risk," said Michael Brune, executive director of Sierra Club.		EPA seeks to scrap rule protecting drinking water for third of Americans The Environmental Protection Agency is poised to dismantle the federal clean water rule, which protects waterways that provide drinking water for about a third of the US population. The EPA, with the US army, has proposed scrapping the rule in order to conduct a "substantive re-evaluation" of which rivers, streams, wetlands and other bodies of water should be protected by the federal government." e are taking significant action to return power to the states and provide regulatory certainty to our nation's farmers and businesses," said Scott Pruitt, administrator of the EPA. Pruitt said the EPA would swiftly redefine clean water regulations in a "thoughtful, transparent and collaborative" way with other agencies and the public. Green groups, however, said the move pandered to fossil fuel and farming interests and was part of an agenda to weaken clean water protections." nce again, the Trump administration has agreed to do the bidding of the worst polluters in our country, and once again it's putting the health of American families and communities at risk," said Michael Brune, executive director of Sierra Club. "We will fight this and every other attempt by polluters and the Trump administration to destroy our water resources." The planned rollback follows an executive order penned by Donald Trump in February which called for a review of the regulation, also known as the waters of the United States rule, that was introduced by the Obama administration in 2015. The rule was meant to end years of confusion over which waterways were federally protected from pollution, with the clean water rule simply designating "navigable" waters for safeguards. The Obama administration widened this definition to include the drinking water of about 117 million Americans. But while the rule was applauded by environmentalists for improving drinking water protections and aiding wildlife that relies on wetlands, it was attacked by some farmers and golf course operators who claimed it hindered their ability to manage their land. Trump has called the rule "one of the worst examples of federal regulation" and a "massive power grab". Signing his order, the president said thousands of jobs were at risk because "the EPA decided that navigable waters can mean nearly every puddle or every ditch on a farmer's land or anyplace else that they decide". While "puddles" aren't mentioned in the rule, the EPA does have greater latitude to regulate under it. However, there is no evidence that the regulation could result in the loss of thousands of jobs. The National Mining Association, another opponent of the rule and representative of an industry relentlessly backed by Trump, welcomed its impending demise." his sets in motion a welcome correction to a deeply problematic regulation that ignored the careful balance that Congress struck between federal and state water regulation and constitutional limits on federal authority," said Hal Quinn, NMA president and chief executive. The clean water rule reversal, which will now go through a period of public comment ahead of a final decision, is the latest in a string of regulations to be paused or scrapped by the Trump administration. In recent months, the EPA has wound back rules curbing vehicle emissions, toxic waste from power plants and methane leaks from oil and gas drilling operations.	False
688	CNN	left_bias	2017-09-30	"Regardless of why you're doing it, what you're doing would be the same whatever motivates you.	Instead, they both said the focus should be on resiliency."	The administration ought to take that into consideration and not try to decouple those two," Castro said.	We could tie this to climate change, or we could tie it to saving taxpayer money."	Regardless of what causes disasters, it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences," Long told CNN.		Trump administration swaps 'climate change' for 'resilience' The word choices by administration officials -- and the extent to which they're going to avoid referencing global warming altogether -- are notable in the aftermath of recent severe hurricanes and in the face of questions about what could have caused them. In the wake of Hurricane Irma, both Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of hurricanes. Instead, they both said the focus should be on resiliency." Regardless of what causes disasters, it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences," Long told CNN. "The only way we become resilient as a nation is we have to create that true culture of preparedness among our citizenry, which we do not have, and then we also have to look how we move forward when it comes to infrastructure protection." Duke echoed Long's thoughts on the need for "resilience." "We live in a changing world, and as the FEMA administrator said, we always have to look at not just the response, but the preparedness and the resilience," Duke said. "And I think it's important that as we come together as a country, we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response, that we are adapting properly." Trump dismisses climate change question by contradicting himself on hurricanes Other departments are also adopting the language replacement, in some cases making unannounced changes and replacements to their websites and names of programs. In February, shortly after President Donald Trump took office, the​ ​Department​ of​ ​Transportation and Federal​ ​Highway​ ​Administration​ ​changed language​ ​across​ its website​ ​relating​ ​to​ ​the environmental​ ​effects​ ​of transportation. The changes swapped words like "adaptation" with resilience and also renamed the "Sustainable Transport and Climate Change Team" to "The Sustainable Transportation and Resilience Team," according to a Environmental​ ​Data​ ​and​ ​Governance​ ​Initiative Website​ ​Tracking​ ​ report That same month, the Environmental Protection Agency removed all mention of climate change from its water utilities programs. The "Climate Ready Water Utilities" program was renamed to "Creating Resilient Water Utilities." Other references to climate change were also scrubbed from the website, Inside Climate News first reported. Over at the USDA, an internal memo obtained by CNN that was shared in the first days of the administration to staffers gave specific guidance to ditch the term "climate change adaptation" and instead opt for "resilience to weather extremes." The terms resilience and resiliency rose to popularity in the US government during former President Barack Obama's administration, used specifically to denote preparing something to ward off the future effects of climate change. For example, following Superstorm Sandy, the Department of Housing and Urban Development established a first-of-its-kind competition called the National Disaster Resilience Competition. The aim of the competition was to award grants to communities hit by natural disasters to fund rebuilding them to better weather future events worsened by climate change. "The idea is when dollars are spent to rebuild, you don't just want to rebuild the same old way, you want to rebuild in a way that is smarter and makes it less likely that they will be effected the same way in the future storms -- that's resiliency," former HUD Secretary Julian Castro, who awarded the grant at the time, told CNN. "There's no question that climate change is at least a contributing factor to some of the intensity of these natural disasters. ... The administration ought to take that into consideration and not try to decouple those two," Castro said. "The verbal judo they are trying to do doesn't serve local communities at all." But administration officials counter that resiliency can have a dual meaning -- even one that means essentially the same thing, but without the overt climate change undertones. "Resilience came into our nomenclature in our last administration but that doesn't mean that it's a verboten word any longer," said Brian Sullivan, a HUD spokesman. "The last administration made that very direct connection between the use of that word and words like sustainability with climate change and, while there may be a reluctance to do that now, I don't think that means folks are any less committed to making sure the next storm is less costly," Sullivan said. While Sullivan acknowledged that there's been an intentional shift of language at the department, especially as the topic of climate change continues to be discussed -- or avoided -- hand-in-hand with storm preparedness, he argues that at the end of the day, the administration has the same goals for rebuilding communities. "I don't know if there's an operating definition of what resilience means," he said. "Regardless of why you're doing it, what you're doing would be the same whatever motivates you. Whether you believe in climate change or you don't, you are embarking on some future activity. We could tie this to climate change, or we could tie it to saving taxpayer money."	False
391	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-11-26	org.	University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke, Jr. pointed out problems with the study on Twitter Saturday, including the fact it was funded by groups connected with Bloomberg and Steyer.	That 2017 study, published in the journal Science, was funded in part by Bloomberg Philanthropies and Next Generation, which were founded by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and San Francisco billionaire Tom Steyer, respectively.	Pielke called the use of such an extreme scenario "embarrassing" because it's based on a future that's 15 degrees Fahrenheit warmer — in other words, twice what the United Nations' most extreme scenario projects.	It's a top-line finding of a major government climate report, but it's based on a study funded by groups affiliated with two major Democratic donors.		A Top-Line Claim In The Newest US Climate Report Relies On Research Tied To Major Democratic Donors It's been repeated throughout the media: Future global warming could wipe-out one-tenth of the U.S. economy by 2100. It's a top-line finding of a major government climate report, but it's based on a study funded by groups affiliated with two major Democratic donors. The oft-repeated claim also stemmed from a global warming projection that's come under increased scrutiny from experts, including one who called it "outlandish." The federal government released the second volume of the National Climate Assessment (NCA) Friday. The federal report issued dire warnings, including from "ice sheet disintegration on accelerated sea level rise, leading to widespread effects on coastal development lasting thousands of years." The report also claims that "global greenhouse gas emissions is expected to cause substantial net damage to the U.S. economy throughout this century," including a 10 percent hit to gross domestic product (GDP) in one extreme scenario. (RELATED: Trump Touts 'Oil Prices Getting Lower' As Millions Hit The Road For Thanksgiving)However, NCA's dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes from a 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors. The study was also funded by other organizations, including the National Science Foundation, the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund. That 2017 study, published in the journal Science, was funded in part by Bloomberg Philanthropies and Next Generation, which were founded by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and San Francisco billionaire Tom Steyer, respectively. University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke, Jr. pointed out problems with the study on Twitter Saturday, including the fact it was funded by groups connected with Bloomberg and Steyer. Bloomberg and Steyer were the biggest donors to Democratic-aligned political action groups in the 2016 election cycle, according to the Center for Responsive Politics (CRP). Bloomberg, who founded Bloomberg Philanthropies, handed nearly $60 million to liberal SuperPACs to help put Democratic candidates in office and defeat Republicans in the 2018 election cycle, according to the CRP. Steyer, who co-founded Next Generation, gave roughly $58.7 million to liberal SuperPACs, according to CRP. Bloomberg and Steyer back the Paris climate accord and Obama-era policies to phase out fossil fuels. The Bloomberg-Steyer-funded study found future temperature rise could cost "roughly 1.2% of gross domestic product per [additional one degree Celsius increase] on average." At the most extreme high-end, that could add up to 10 percent of GDP by 2100. Pielke called the use of such an extreme scenario "embarrassing" because it's based on a future that's 15 degrees Fahrenheit warmer — in other words, twice what the United Nations' most extreme scenario projects. But even the United Nations' worst-case scenario, called RCP8.5, is being called into question by experts. A study published in 2017 found RCP8.5 was "exceptionally unlikely" because it suffered from "systematic errors in fossil production outlooks." Imagine if research funded by Exxon was sole basis for claims. Given weaknesses of the work [it's] just [foolish] to lean on it so much," Pielke tweeted. Major media outlets' however, did no such examination of the NCA's reliance on such an "outlandish" claim, as Pielke called it. CNN reported "the economy could lose hundreds of billions of dollars — or, in the worst-case scenario, more than 10% of its GDP" by 2100. The news outlets' headline warned future warming could also "kill thousands." All told, the report says, climate change could slash up to a tenth of gross domestic product by 2100, more than double the losses of the Great Recession a decade ago," The New York Times reported of the NCA. Andrew Light, a distinguished senior fellow at the World Resources Institute and reviewer of the chapter highlighting the Bloomberg-Steyer-funded study did not respond to The Daily Caller News Foundation's request for comment. Instead, Light forwarded TheDCNF's request to the U.S. Global Change Research Program (USGCRP), which is responsible for producing the NCA. USGCRP has yet to respond to TheDCNF's request. The NCA was put together with input from 13 federal agencies and outside scientists. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
638	Drudge Report	right_bias	2017-10-24	Many survivors — at Monday's forum, and in fire zones where people are returning — say they are confused about what authorities will allow them to do at their blackened properties before the massive waste removal."	What are we looking for?"	Officials pointed to the public health concerns, ranging from safety of residents in the burned neighborhoods to concerns for hazardous waste entering waterways and the air.	Laney Wall, who lost her home in the Sonoma County community of Fountaingrove, asked why homeowners had to go through the expense, trouble and wait of the clean-up at all."	Heartbreaking clean-up begins... Joyce Farinato, a pastor and artist who lost her Glen Ellen, Calif., home in recent wildfires, stands in the ruins Monday, Oct. 23, 2017, and shows a mask she found in the debris, one of her few surviving possessions.		Heartbreaking clean-up begins... Joyce Farinato, a pastor and artist who lost her Glen Ellen, Calif., home in recent wildfires, stands in the ruins Monday, Oct. 23, 2017, and shows a mask she found in the debris, one of her few surviving possessions. Farinato said she wants to follow the environmental rules on cleaning burned sites but needs to know what they are. (AP Photo/Ellen Knickmeyer)SANTA ROSA, Calif. (AP) — Government officials outlined plans Monday for what they say will be the largest fire clean-up in California history, aimed at removing hazardous substances and ash from 8,400 homes and other structures burned in Northern California wildfires. With hundreds of anxious homeowners listening, state emergency services official Eric Lamoureux set a target of early 2018 for completing the clean-up and allowing owners to start rebuilding. California has declared a public health emergency in the fire area, in part because of concern for hazardous substances ranging from freon in air-conditioners to asbestos in older homes. The fires that began Oct. 8 have killed at least 42 people, making them the deadliest series of wildfires in state history." The size and scope of this debris removal process will be one for the record books," Sen. Mike McGuire, a Democrat from the wine-country town of Healdsburg, told fire survivors at a Santa Rosa community forum. The meeting gave residents some of the first briefings on the clean-up to come. Authorities have warned residents returning to the ruins of their homes to beware of possible hazardous residues in the ashes, and required them to sign forms acknowledging the danger. Many survivors — at Monday's forum, and in fire zones where people are returning — say they are confused about what authorities will allow them to do at their blackened properties before the massive waste removal." How do you get to get your mourning started if I can't stop and put hands" on the scattering of possessions left, asked resident Joyce Farinato, who wore gardening gloves and a mask Monday as she walked through the chunks of concrete and bent metal that were all that was left of her home in rural Sonoma County."I'd like to know what's hazardous. What are we looking for?" Farinato said. In Santa Rosa, authorities with the Federal Emergency Management Administration and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers joined local and state officials answering other questions from homeowners. In two of the hardest-hit areas, Sonoma and Napa, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will be the agency that moves first, removing any hazardous materials from the thousands of sites, officials said Monday. State agencies would handle the same task in five other burned counties. The EPA effort would start this week, said Lamoureux, of California's Office of Emergency Services. Hundreds of teams led by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers are to move in next, removing ash and rubble. In Sonoma County, the scene of the most destruction and deaths, county officials will draft environmental standards to be followed by any homeowners who opt to handle the clean-up themselves, at their own expense, officials said. For property owners who let the government handle the clean-up, taxpayers will cover any of the costs of debris removal that insurance doesn't, Lamoureux said. Authorities have yet to put a price tag on the process. Homeowners shouted questions on matters ranging from their liability in the clean-up to the extent that contractors would be scraping bare building sites. Laney Wall, who lost her home in the Sonoma County community of Fountaingrove, asked why homeowners had to go through the expense, trouble and wait of the clean-up at all." What legally is the justification for declaring my home site a hazardous waste site, requiring this onerous process?" Wall asked. Officials pointed to the public health concerns, ranging from safety of residents in the burned neighborhoods to concerns for hazardous waste entering waterways and the air. Officials promised more town meetings. Homeowners said that was a good idea."I just have more questions now," Danny Thom, another Fountaingrove resident, said after the meeting.	False
642	RedState	right_bias	2017-10-09	Circuit decides on the merits of the GOP-industry lawsuit against it.	)The purpose of this rule was breathtaking.	The sum total of this is to take this issue out of the courts and then give the environmental nazis a new chew toy to play with for several years.	Remember what Hillary Clinton said?	Since that time the rule has been mired in court challenges and it produced the first instance in history where the Supreme Court presumed a rule was unreasonable before a lower court ruled on the issue:"The Supreme Court dealt a blow to President Obama's signature climate change initiative Tuesday by halting the administration's effort to reduce pollution from coal-fired power plants while a legal battle rages on.		Scott Pruitt Gets Ready to Pull the Plug on Obama's Job-Killing Clean Power Plan Back in October 2015, Barack Obama's EPA finalized a 460-page rule titled "Carbon Pollution Emission Guidelines for Existing Stationary Sources: Electric Utility Generating Units," aka the Clean Power Plan. This was a part of Obama's "pen and phone" way of ruling the country. (As an aside, did you ever see anyone on the left bitch about Obama using the power of the presidency to make policy and weigh in on political and cultural issues the way some on the right bitch about Trump doing it? Did you ever stop to wonder what they know that the current belly-achers don't?)The purpose of this rule was breathtaking. Using the anthropogenic global warming scaremongering and specious public health predictions, the Clean Power Plan essentially put the US coal industry out of business. Since that time the rule has been mired in court challenges and it produced the first instance in history where the Supreme Court presumed a rule was unreasonable before a lower court ruled on the issue:"The Supreme Court dealt a blow to President Obama's signature climate change initiative Tuesday by halting the administration's effort to reduce pollution from coal-fired power plants while a legal battle rages on. The move by the court's five conservative members was a shock to environmentalists, who had hoped the justices would deny — as a federal appeals court did last month — a petition filed by 29 mostly Republican-led states and industry leaders. Now the Environmental Protection Agency must halt enforcement of the so-called "Clean Power Plan" until the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit decides on the merits of the GOP-industry lawsuit against it. Oral arguments are set for early June. Even if the plan is upheld at the lower court, it could not be implemented until the Supreme Court has had the final word. That likely would push the battle into 2017 or beyond. In September 2016, then-candidate Donald Trump gave an economic policy speech in which he specifically targeted the Clean Power Plan:Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump said he would repeal four key Environmental Protection Agency regulations as president, leading one environmental group to call his plans a "dumpster fire." During an economic policy speech in New York, Trump said he would eliminate the Clean Power Plan and the Waters of the United States rule. In a fact sheet released accompanying the speech, Trump's campaign said he would scale back the latest regulations on ozone pollution and eliminate the EPA's Renewable Identification Number program, which is part of the Renewable Fuel Standard program. Trump said the regulations harm U.S. businesses and getting rid of them would help kick-start the economy. "This Obama-Clinton directive will shut down most, if not all, coal-powered electricity plans in America," Trump said of the Clean Power Plan. " They're shutting down all over the country. Remember what Hillary Clinton said? She wants to shut down the miners, just like she wants to shut down the steel mills and steel workers." In late March, President Trump signed an executive order directing the EPA to review the Clean Power Plan:Now it is reported that tomorrow the EPA will being the process of withdrawing the Clean Power Plan. What the EPA is doing is proposing a rule to rescind the existing rule and then it will undertake another administrative rule making process to ask for public input on what a new rule should contain, and finally a new rule will be drafted. I'm sure Scott Pruitt would prefer to scrap this whole thing, unfortunately, the US Supreme Court 2007 decision, Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency, says that EPA regulation of carbon dioxide is actually required by the Clean Air Act and so non-regulation is legally off the table unless Congress acts (that was a joke). The sum total of this is to take this issue out of the courts and then give the environmental nazis a new chew toy to play with for several years. In the meantime, hopefully Congress will act (again that was a joke) to limit the reach of the Clean Air Act and the ability of activists to use that law to wreak havoc on our economy and communities.	False
797	NPR	left_center_bias	2017-05-26	Still to be determined: whether it was persuasive, or consequential.	Leaders of the Roman Catholic Church broached the topic when Trump visited the Vatican.	And up for debate, the peril of climate change and the urgency of the U.S. commitment to the Paris accord to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.	But he hasn't retracted the pledges themselves.	On the other side, President Trump.		In Europe, World Leaders Try To Change Trump's Mind On Climate Change In Europe, World Leaders Try To Change Trump's Mind On Climate ChangeIt was eight against one, according to German Chancellor Angela Merkel. On one side, leaders of Canada, Japan, France, Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom, plus two EU representatives. On the other side, President Trump. And up for debate, the peril of climate change and the urgency of the U.S. commitment to the Paris accord to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Merkel said that everyone at the table at the G-7 summit in Taormina, Italy, was urging Trump to stick with the pact, according to Reuters. After that conversation, Trump economic adviser Gary Cohn said the president's views are "evolving" and that he feels "much, much more knowledgeable" after the conversation with world leaders." He came here to learn. He came here to get smarter," Cohn said. "His views are evolving, which is exactly as they should be." Any decision on climate change would ultimately be based on what's best for the United States, Cohn said. The Paris accord, created in 2015 after lengthy negotiations, calls on 196 nations to ratchet back greenhouse gas emissions. The goal is to keep the rise in global temperatures no higher than 2 degrees Celsius, as compared with pre-industrial levels. (As NPR reported at the time, the global average temperature has already increased about 1 degree Celsius.)The deal includes voluntary pledges to reduce emissions. It also calls for developed countries to provide billions of dollars to help the developing world switch from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources. The accord was historic in its scope and its ambition, even though its reliance on voluntary pledges made it less robust than some advocates had hoped. On the campaign trail, Trump said he would "cancel" the Paris deal. He has previously suggested that climate change is a hoax and appointed as the head of the EPA a man who said he does not believe human activity is a primary contributor to global warming. (Climate change and its impacts have been observed by scientists working in multiple fields, and the overwhelming scientific consensus is that human activity is the primary cause.)But since taking office, Trump has not moved to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris agreement. He has rolled back a number of Obama-era climate change measures, which will hamper U.S. efforts to fulfill its Paris pledges. But he hasn't retracted the pledges themselves. Just this week, members of his administration indicated that the White House had not yet decided what to do on the issue. Before the conversation between Trump and the other G-7 leaders, Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni noted that all the other countries had confirmed "total agreement" to the pact, while the U.S. commitment was an "open question." We are sure that after an internal reflection, the United States will also want to commit to it," Gentiloni said, according to the Associated Press. But Gentolini and other world leaders weren't just waiting for internal reflection. They added some external pressure, too. French President Emmanuel Macron reportedly discussed climate change with Trump at length on Thursday at a meeting in Brussels. Leaders of the Roman Catholic Church broached the topic when Trump visited the Vatican. And then there was the chat between the G-7 leaders. Merkel called the conversation "controversial." Cohn said it was "robust." Still to be determined: whether it was persuasive, or consequential.	False
756	Yahoo News	left_center_bias	2017-08-10	"We don't go into policy, but we provide the information for people who want to go further with that."	"It's intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that you're talking about."	e're scientists, and we're providing objective information," Jessica Blunden, a climate scientist at NOAA's National Climatic Data Center in Asheville, N.C., told Yahoo News.	Now they hope the world will listen.	"It's not just NOAA who is agreeing with it.		Climate scientists continue to sound the alarm: Global warming fueled record temperatures in 2016 Scientists say that 2016 has been confirmed as the warmest year on record. (Photo: Getty/EyeEm)The evidence behind global climate change continues to mount, and scientists keep speaking out. Now they hope the world will listen. The latest international climate report from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) confirms that 2016 was the third consecutive year of record global heat. On Thursday afternoon the American Meteorological Society published the 27th annual "State of the Climate" report, which verifies last year surpassed 2015 as the hottest since record keeping began in 1880. Based on preliminary data, NASA and NOOA had made the same assessment back in January, but this week's report is considered definitive." e're scientists, and we're providing objective information," Jessica Blunden, a climate scientist at NOAA's National Climatic Data Center in Asheville, N.C., told Yahoo News. "We don't go into policy, but we provide the information for people who want to go further with that." According to the report, the effect of long-term global warming and a powerful El Niño early on pushed 2016 into record-setting warmth. The global average sea level reached a new record high last year as well, to 3.25 inches above the average level in 1993, which marks the beginning of the satellite altimeter record. Scientists also said that the average Arctic land surface temperature continued to warm and global ice and snow cover continued to decline. Sea ice extents in the Antarctic hit record daily and monthly lows in August and November. The "State of the Climate" report is based on contributions from nearly 500 scientists from more than 60 countries, using tens of thousands of measurements from several independent data sets. This summary of the global climate confirms data released on Jan. 18 based on analyses from scientists at NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York. Blunden said the use of additional independent data sets distinguishes this report from what came before." he big difference in this report is we don't just look at NOAA data. There are about four different independent data sets we looked at to come to this conclusion," Blunden told Yahoo News. "It's not just NOAA who is agreeing with it. NASA, the U.K. Met Office and the Japan Meteorological Agency are agreeing." Since the previous data was released mere days before President Trump's inauguration, this peer-reviewed report is the most thorough assessment of climate change officially released during the Trump era. Deke Arndt, chief of the climate-monitoring branch at NOAA's National Centers for Environmental Information, described the report as diagnostic when asked if anyone from the White House had weighed in on it or questioned its findings." his report is a diagnostic report. It basically diagnoses what is happening in the climate system," Arndt said on a conference call. "It's intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that you're talking about." Concentrations of major greenhouse gases in the atmosphere also reached to new highs in 2016. For instance, the global average concentration of carbon dioxide (CO2), the primary driver of anthropogenic climate change, in the atmosphere reached 402.9 parts per million (ppm). This was the first time on record that CO2 concentration exceeded 400 ppm. The consensus of climate scientists is that the maximum safe level is 350.	False
527	bbc	left_center_bias	2018-10-10	All measures combined can result in keeping healthy both planet and people."	The key element is that these three solutions must be implemented together."	We looked at improving agricultural yields in particular of more health sensitive crops like fruit, vegetables and legumes," said Dr Springmann."	'Flexitarian' diets key to feeding people in a warming world If the world wants to limit climate change, water scarcity and pollution, then we all need to embrace "flexitarian" diets, say scientists.	So when it comes to climate change, the authors looked at what they called a "flexitarian diet"."		'Flexitarian' diets key to feeding people in a warming world If the world wants to limit climate change, water scarcity and pollution, then we all need to embrace "flexitarian" diets, say scientists. This means eating mainly plant-based foods, and is one of three key steps towards a sustainable future for all in 2050, they say. Food waste will need to be halved and farming practices will also have to improve, according to the study. Without action, the impacts of the food system could increase by up to 90%. Fast on the heels of the landmark report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) comes this new study on how food production and consumption impact major threats to the planet. The authors say that the food system has a number of significant environmental impacts including being a major driver of climate change, depleting freshwater and pollution through excessive use of nitrogen and phosphorous. The study says that thanks to the population and income growth expected between 2010 and 2050, these impacts could grow between 50-90%. This could push our world beyond its planetary boundaries, which the authors say represent a "safe operating space for humanity on a stable Earth system". However the study finds that no single solution will avert the dangers, so a combined approach is needed. So when it comes to climate change, the authors looked at what they called a "flexitarian diet"." We can eat a range of healthy diets but what they all have in common, according to the latest scientific evidence, is that they are all relatively plant based," said lead author Dr Marco Springmann from the University of Oxford." You can go from a diet that has small amounts of animal products, some might call it a Mediterranean based diet, we call it a flexitarian diet, over to a pescatarian, vegetarian or vegan diet - we tried to stay with the most conservative one of these which in our view is the flexitarian one, but even this has only one serving of red meat per week." If the world moved to this type of diet, the study found that greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture would be reduced by more than half. But as well as altering diets, the research says that farming practices need to change significantly. This involves boosting yields from existing cropland, improving water management and restricting and recycling fertiliser use." We looked at improving agricultural yields in particular of more health sensitive crops like fruit, vegetables and legumes," said Dr Springmann." In the past there has been lots of invest in the stable grains like maize and corn, but now we really need to move it to the crops we need more of. We also looked at increasing the efficiency of water use, and we looked at better monitoring and recycling of fertiliser - lots of it is lost and it runs off into rivers and causes dead zones in the oceans." In addition, the study found that halving the amount of food lost to waste would reduce the environmental impacts of agriculture by 16%." Tackling food loss and waste will require measures across the entire food chain, from storage, and transport, over food packaging and labelling to changes in legislation and business behaviour that promote zero-waste supply chains," said Fabrice de Clerck, director of science at EAT who funded the study. The key element is that these three solutions must be implemented together." Feeding a world population of 10 billion people is possible - yet only if we change the way we eat, and the way we produce food," said Johan Rockström, director designate of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, who is one of the authors of the study." All measures combined can result in keeping healthy both planet and people." The study has been published in the journal Nature.	False
794	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-06-02	The official echoed: "Can we stay on topic please?"	"I think that speaks for itself."	I think it's a little bit more nuanced than stay in or not."	There was a chorus of condemnation from world leaders, former president Barack Obama and Trump's defeated election opponent Hillary Clinton, who branded it "a historic mistake".	The official insisted his own views were irrelevant, while a White House staff member interjected: "Can we stay on topic please?"		'Yes or no?' White House won't say if Trump is a climate change denier The White House has declined to say whether Donald Trump believes human activity contributes to climate change as the president pulled America out of the Paris agreement. Administration officials were also unable to offer revised US carbon emission targets or say what changes to the global landmark accord would persuade Trump to re-enter it. But they did offer assurance that America will abide by the lengthy exit process outlined in the deal, waiting three-and-a-half years to formally withdraw. Trump announced on Thursday the US would join Nicaragua and Syria as the only countries to shun the Paris agreement, characterising it as "a reassertion of America's sovereignty" and saying he was "elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris". There was a chorus of condemnation from world leaders, former president Barack Obama and Trump's defeated election opponent Hillary Clinton, who branded it "a historic mistake". Shortly after Trump spoke in the Rose Garden at the White House to applause from supporters, two senior administration officials briefed reporters in the west wing. The officials, who did not wish to be named, did nothing to alter perceptions of the US president as a climate change denier when asked whether he believed human activity was a contributory factor. One official replied: "So I think the fact that the president in his speech today said he wants to come back and renegotiate a better deal for the United States and for the world I think speaks for itself." The journalist shot back: "So is that a yes? It's a yes or no question." The official said: "Again, I think that speaks for itself." The journalist pressed: "It doesn't speak for itself, so is that a yes? Does he believe human activity contributes to climate change?"The official said: "I have not talked to the president about his personal views on whether – I was not with the president on his trip. I did not talk to the president about his personal views on what is contributing to climate change." The official insisted his own views were irrelevant, while a White House staff member interjected: "Can we stay on topic please?" The official echoed: "Can we stay on topic please?" – implying that Trump's views on the causes of climate change were irrelevant to the Paris decision. On 27 March the same official proved evasive on Trump's views when questioned by the Guardian. This week Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, also said he had not asked the president's opinion on the matter. Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, has said he "would not agree" that carbon from human activity is the primary cause of global warming while, in 2014, Trump referred to it as a "hoax". On Thursday, in a speech that kept a campaign pledge and echoed the fiery "America first" nationalism of his inaugural address, Trump said: "As of today, the United States will cease all implementation of the non-binding Paris accord." During Obama's tenure, the US had agreed under the accord to reduce emissions by more than a quarter below 2005 levels by 2025. The administration officials declined to specify new targets or give even a rough estimate of America's intended nationally determined contribution to limiting greenhouse gas emissions. But they pointed to America's existing record. "I think leading the world is pretty good, right?" one said. "I think that speaks for itself." The Paris accord came into effect on 4 November 2016. It makes provision for parties to withdraw, but notice can be given only three years after it kicks in. Withdrawal would take effect a year after that, meaning November 2020, a date that coincides with the next US presidential election – raising the prospect that the issue remains alive during the campaign." irst of all, the whole withdrawal process will be consistent with the Paris agreement," an official said. "So the Paris agreement has to be in force for three years before you can actually submit a notice formally for withdrawal, which takes at least a year." uring this period, the United States will not acknowledge or do anything to implement the current pledge put down by President Obama. Now what's the negotiating process? I think that's going to be determined by the president as we move forward." The leaders of France, Germany and Italy joined to express regret at Trump's decision and insisted the agreement "cannot be renegotiated". One of the administration officials responded: "If you look at the Europeans, if you look at other major economies or allies or partners, they have a strong interest in finding common ground with the United States and again, we don't want to get out ahead of ourselves here on what may be discussed or not." here are a lot of different issues related to the international climate agenda that may not necessarily fall into the Paris bucket per se." He added: "The president is very sincere when he says he wants a better deal, he wants to negotiate, potentially bringing us back in Paris depending on what that looks like ... I think it's a little bit more nuanced than stay in or not." Officials at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) challenged a set of talking points issued to support Trump's decision as misleading. A statement from MIT said: "The relevant MIT researchers believe that the Paris agreement is an unprecedented and vital effort by nearly 200 countries to respond to the urgent threat of global climate change."	False
135	vox	left_bias	2019-06-25	"[Courtney's admission] is not rewarding Senate Republicans for bad behavior."	"That will not change."	On Tuesday, some of the Republicans in hiding were not sure what to make of Courtney's statement about the votes.	"The Republicans are not standing against climate change, they're standing against democracy," she said during a press conference Tuesday.	Democrats have conceded to Republican walkouts before, yielding on major gun control and vaccine legislation.		Oregon Republicans are in hiding to avoid voting on a climate bill. They might succeed. A top Oregon Senate Democrat on Tuesday flinched in the face of a Republican walkout, acknowledging that there are not enough votes to pass a major bill to address climate change." ouse Bill 2020 does not have the votes on the Senate floor," said Senate President Peter Courtney Tuesday morning in an admission of defeat. "That will not change." The central provision of House Bill 2020 is to institute a cap-and-trade mechanism for carbon dioxide across the state — a mechanism to cut emissions 45 percent below 1990 levels by 2035 and 80 percent by 2050. It's a long, thorough piece of legislation that mandates carbon emission reductions across the state's economy while accounting for job quality standards and economic equity. And it would make Oregon the second state after New York with a legally binding, economy-wide greenhouse gas reduction target. "There's been incredible work going into that bill," Courtney said. But according to Rick Osborn, communications director for the Oregon Senate Majority office, Democrats weren't able to muster the votes for HB 2020 within their own caucus. Oregon Republicans argued that the bill would harm their rural constituents and energy-intensive industries like cement production. They also said they were being bullied by Senate Democrats. And so 11 of them fled the state capitol on Thursday, apparently to an undisclosed location in Idaho, to deny quorum for a vote on the bill. Yet the walkout now appears to have been a highly politicized charade, since Democrats may not have had the votes to begin with. "My understanding is that it was known last week, before the Republicans walked out," Osborn told Vox. "[Courtney's admission] is not rewarding Senate Republicans for bad behavior." Democratic Gov. Kate Brown nonetheless last week sent state police to find the lawmakers and instituted a $500-per-day fine per person for each day they weren't present at a legislative session. "The Republicans are not standing against climate change, they're standing against democracy," she said during a press conference Tuesday. Republicans had used the moment as an opportunity to appear defiant, with one Republican state senator, Brian Boquist, even threatening police. Lawmakers closed down the capitol on Saturday after receiving credible threats from militia groups in favor of the Republican walkout. On Tuesday, some of the Republicans in hiding were not sure what to make of Courtney's statement about the votes. And they weren't committing to returning to work either, according to Oregon Public Broadcasting's Lauren Dake:Even if Courtney wants to throw in the towel, it may not be easy to kill the climate change bill to bring Republicans back to Salem, as the Oregonian explained:Although Courtney wields significant power in the Senate, he cannot easily kill the climate bill in order to secure Republicans' return. One possible first step could be for the Senate to vote to send the bill back to a committee but such a vote could not happen without a quorum, meaning at least two Republicans would have to return to the Capitol. Another option that would also require a quorum could be a motion to postpone the bill indefinitely, which under Senate rules would mean the bill could not be considered during this legislative session. If and when the bill dies, it would be a painful defeat for Democrats, who won legislative supermajorities in both chambers of the Oregon legislature in the last election. Oregon has also been working on carbon pricing policies since 1997. The concession from Democrats may have been motivated by a time constraint. The Oregon state legislative session ends on June 30, and more than 100 bills, including funding for several state agencies, are at risk of being scrapped. Democrats have conceded to Republican walkouts before, yielding on major gun control and vaccine legislation. This latest surrender likely means that state Republicans, despite being in the minority, will continue to hold a veto over Democrats' agenda.	False
64	therightscoop	right_bias	2019-12-03	No wonder celebs opt to be complete and utter hypocrites instead of actually trying to get carbon neutral.	And we all kinda see what is happening here – if they can't do it now, then why would we believe that they would be carbon free after they force all of us to live in backwards slums?	Ironically, she failed because of left-wing communist protesters in Chile:Henderson was forced to make the flight last second because protests in Chile caused the U.N.'s Cop25 climate summit to be moved to Madrid, Spain.	From the Hill:Greta Thunberg's plan for carbon-free travel was contradicted when her sailboat captain flew across the Atlantic Ocean to pick her up.	Thunberg and her father, who has traveled North America throughout his daughter's activist tour, could have flown aboard the same flight and burned just as much CO2.		Greta Thunberg FAILS her 'zero emissions' promise after climate summit moves to Spain Greta Thunberg tried really hard to keep her "zero emissions" promise, but it has collapsed like all hypocritical left-wing plans because it was just too difficult. From the Hill:Greta Thunberg's plan for carbon-free travel was contradicted when her sailboat captain flew across the Atlantic Ocean to pick her up. Thunberg, 16, has been on a tour of North America to raise awareness for climate change. As part of her pledge to cut back carbon dioxide emissions to save the planet, Thunberg vowed not to travel by air to limit her carbon footprint while she tours. The plan for "zero emissions" travel was subverted when Thunberg's yacht captain, Nikki Henderson, 26, flew to the United States from England, burning roughly two or three tons of carbon CO2 in the process. Thunberg and her father, who has traveled North America throughout his daughter's activist tour, could have flown aboard the same flight and burned just as much CO2. Ironically, she failed because of left-wing communist protesters in Chile:Henderson was forced to make the flight last second because protests in Chile caused the U.N.'s Cop25 climate summit to be moved to Madrid, Spain. Thunberg was set to speak at the conference but needed to leave the U.S. sooner than expected.I mean, you really think the entire world is going to come to a screeching halt for carbon emissions when you can't even organize a publicity stunt with your own standards? No wonder celebs opt to be complete and utter hypocrites instead of actually trying to get carbon neutral. And we all kinda see what is happening here – if they can't do it now, then why would we believe that they would be carbon free after they force all of us to live in backwards slums?	True
406	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-10-18	Rick Scott ― a staunch Trump supporter ― he was removing the state's coastal waters from consideration.	The offshore drilling announcement drew immediate outrage from both Democrats and Republicans, who expressed concern about possible environmental damage and negative effects on tourism.	He also expressed concern about merging the two agencies, but said the administration has in effect already done that by putting the safety bureau in the hands of Angelle, a big proponent of offshore fossil fuel development.	Donald Boesch, a professor of marine science at the University of Maryland who served on the bipartisan commission that investigated the causes of the Deepwater Horizon blowout, said easing the safety rules is both "premature" and "ill-considered."	Zinke walked back Florida's exemption after other states demanded that they receive the same pass.		Trump Team Cited Obama-Era Safety Rules In Offshore Drilling Plan, Then Gutted Them The Trump administration pointed to key offshore drilling safety regulations adopted in the wake of the catastrophic 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill in its sweeping proposal to open up nearly all U.S. waters to oil and gas development, only to turn around in the months since and work to roll back those very safeguards. The controversial drilling plan, released in January as part of President Donald Trump's "energy dominance" agenda, would make available for oil and gas leasing roughly 90 percent of the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf, including large swaths of the Arctic, Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. The Interior Department, led by Secretary Ryan Zinke, noted in the lengthy proposal that while offshore oil and gas production "will never be totally risk-free," the agency "has made, and is continuing to make, substantial reforms to improve the safety and reduce the possible adverse environmental impacts" of those activities. Elizabeth Johnson Klein, the Interior Department's associate deputy secretary under Obama, said the language first appeared in a draft of the current program, released in January 2015. She said it references the Well Control Rule and the Production Safety Systems Rule, two regulations that were under development back in early 2015 and are now on Trump's chopping block. The language also points to broader reform efforts that occurred after the Gulf spill, including the division of the Minerals Management Service, the scandal-plagued agency faced with the conflicting tasks of issuing leases and policing offshore drilling operations, into three new agencies. Days before the Trump administration unveiled its plans for a massive expansion of offshore drilling, it moved to weaken the Production Safety Systems Rule, a set of regulations pertaining to maintenance of offshore platforms. At the time, the Interior Department's Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement ― one of the agencies born out of the reorganization of the Minerals Management Service ― estimated that the move would save companies some $288 million over 10 years. The changes, finalized last month and slated to take effect on Dec. 27, loosen notification and certification rules for fossil fuel companies and toss out a requirement that offshore equipment be designed to withstand the most extreme weather and pressure conditions. In May, the Trump administration took aim at the Well Control Rule, a safety monitoring regulation meant to prevent the kind of incident that killed 11 workers and resulted in some 200 million gallons of crude oil leaking into the Gulf of Mexico. Finalized in 2016, six years after the Deepwater Horizon disaster, the rule requires additional inspection and maintenance of blowout preventers, a device designed to automatically seal a well and stop an uncontrolled release of oil and gas. The Interior Department's proposed overhaul would loosen the inspection and oversight requirements for this equipment. Like the rollback of the Production Safety Systems Rule, this effort is all about helping industry. In fact, many of the proposed changes to the Well Control Rule were requested by oil companies, as Eric Lipton of The New York Times reported in March. In comments submitted to the agency in August, 10 state attorneys general argued that weakening the rule at the same time as the Trump administration is looking to radically expand offshore drilling "is analogous to taping over the mirrors and unbuckling one's seat belt just before getting on the highway." Donald Boesch, a professor of marine science at the University of Maryland who served on the bipartisan commission that investigated the causes of the Deepwater Horizon blowout, said easing the safety rules is both "premature" and "ill-considered." He also expressed concern about merging the two agencies, but said the administration has in effect already done that by putting the safety bureau in the hands of Angelle, a big proponent of offshore fossil fuel development. In April 2017, Trump signed an executive order aimed at opening up protected areas of the Arctic and Atlantic oceans to oil and gas leasing. It instructed the Interior Department to review the current five-year program and write new rules for offshore oil and gas drilling under the guise of an "America-First Offshore Energy Strategy." If approved, the leasing plan would go into effect from 2019 to 2024 and replace the current program, which is set to run through 2022 and was approved following an extensive, multiyear review. The offshore drilling announcement drew immediate outrage from both Democrats and Republicans, who expressed concern about possible environmental damage and negative effects on tourism. Days after the proposal's release, Zinke traveled to Florida and announced that on the recommendation of Gov. Rick Scott ― a staunch Trump supporter ― he was removing the state's coastal waters from consideration. Zinke walked back Florida's exemption after other states demanded that they receive the same pass. He has since hinted to officials from at least six states that the waters off their coasts will not be included in the final plan, Reuters reported this week.	False
190	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-08-27	Macron cannot even avoid a predictable fire in a church that is part of the world's heritage and he wants to give us lessons for our country?"	Adding to the row over the aid offer, Mr Bolsonaro's chief of staff, Onyx Lorenzoni, mocked the fire that ravaged Notre-Dame cathedral in Paris in April."	It's no use pointing the finger at what's wrong without bringing alternatives to people," he said.	"I even had to keep the animals [inside] so that they don't burn as well.	The two presidents hold sharply different political views, with Mr Bolsonaro hailing from the far right in Brazil and Mr Macron elected in a run-off against the far right in France.		Amazon fires: Brazil to reject G7 offer of $22m aid Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro has ruled out accepting a G7 offer of aid to fight fires in the Amazon rainforest unless he gets an apology from his French counterpart, Emmanuel Macron. Mr Bolsonaro said the French leader should apologise for insulting him personally by calling him a liar. Mr Macron had accused him of "lying" about fighting climate change. Aid worth $22m (£18m) was announced by Mr Macron at a summit in France of the seven leading industrial powers. Satellite data show a record number of fires burning in Brazil, most of them in the Amazon region. Earlier, Brazilian ministers said the G7 money was not needed and they accused foreign powers of wanting control of the Amazon. Last week, Mr Macron said Mr Bolsonaro had "lied" to him at a G20 summit in Osaka, Japan, in June by failing to respect his climate commitments and by failing to pursue biodiversity. Mr Macron said France would not ratify a huge trade deal with South American nations unless Brazil did more to fight fires in the Amazon. On Tuesday, Mr Bolsonaro told reporters in the capital Brasilia: "Mr Macron must withdraw the insults that he made to my person. Firstly, he called me a liar." He also accused Mr Macron of questioning Brazilian sovereignty over the Amazon region, Brazilian news website G1 reports." To talk or to accept anything from France, whether it be with the best possible intentions, he [Mr Macron] will have to withdraw those words and then we can talk," he said. The two presidents hold sharply different political views, with Mr Bolsonaro hailing from the far right in Brazil and Mr Macron elected in a run-off against the far right in France. In another development, Mr Bolsonaro responded to a joke on Facebook mocking the age of Mr Macron's wife Brigitte who, at 65, is 25 years his senior. He wrote: "Do not humiliate the guy, ha ha." Asked about Mr Bolsonaro's remarks, Mr Macron said they were "extraordinarily rude" and "sad". Adding to the row over the aid offer, Mr Bolsonaro's chief of staff, Onyx Lorenzoni, mocked the fire that ravaged Notre-Dame cathedral in Paris in April." Macron cannot even avoid a predictable fire in a church that is part of the world's heritage and he wants to give us lessons for our country?" he said, quoted by the Globo news website. As the largest rainforest in the world, the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming. It spans a number of countries, but the majority of it falls within Brazil. Wildfires often occur in the dry season in Brazil but satellite data published by Brazil's space agency show an increase of 80% this year. BBC analysis has also found that the record number of fires being recorded coincides with a sharp drop in fines being handed out for environmental violations. Mr Bolsonaro has previously said his government lacks the resources to fight the record number of fires in the Amazon region but his government is also being accused of slashing funding for environmental protection." The funding for Brazil's environment agency has gone down by 95% this year," Yadvinder Malhi, professor of Ecosystem Science at the University of Oxford, told the BBC's Today programme. On Friday, President Bolsonaro authorised the military to help tackle the blazes. Brazil says 44,000 soldiers have been deployed to combat the fires and environmental crimes in the Amazon, and military operations are under way in seven states as the result of requests for assistance from local governments. Jorgimar Alberto, from Roraima, one of the states most affected by the fires, has seen the burning of most of the land surrounding his wooden house." It's a risky situation, we have lots of crops here and everything is burning, such as the cashew trees," he told the BBC."I even had to keep the animals [inside] so that they don't burn as well. Every year it is the same, these fires are disturbing the region a lot." Environmental officials helped him extinguish the fires last week only for them to reignite, he said. His wife could not stand staying in the house with the smell of burning and the threat getting ever closer, so she left. Lumberyard owner Edson Oliveira from southern Amazonas said he did not believe the media coverage about the Amazon." In my opinion, the parts that are burning are the same that burn every year," he told the BBC. Asked what he would like politicians to do for the Amazon, he said that he would like "economic alternatives for people here, to find a way we can make use of the natural wealth we have here"." It's no use pointing the finger at what's wrong without bringing alternatives to people," he said. The $22m was announced on Monday as the leaders of the G7 - Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the UK and the US - met in Biarritz, France. Mr Macron said the funds would be made available immediately - primarily to pay for more firefighting planes - and that France would also "offer concrete support with military in the region". Greenpeace France described the G7's response to the crisis as "inadequate given the urgency and magnitude of this environmental disaster". As international concern over the fires spread, Hollywood actor Leonardo DiCaprio pledged $5m towards helping the rainforest. He has long maintained that European countries are trying to gain access to Brazil's natural resources. He alleges that European interest in the welfare of the Amazon is a thin guise for attempts to gain a foothold in the region. Asked by international journalists about environmental protection of the Amazon at a press briefing on 6 July, he said: "Brazil is like a virgin that every pervert from the outside lusts for."	False
748	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-10-14	hey also ignore the question as to why there's not enough political will to have done more to tackle climate change until now and they in turn serve to justify the inaction," she added.	But scientists such as Keith, and Mark Lawrence, scientific director of the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies (IASS) in Potsdam, argue that with the Paris agreement goals to limit temperature rise to two degrees or less, almost impossible to achieve, the world has little choice than to thoroughly explore technical intervention and the potential it has to avoid global disaster."	"Our work is to inform better choices and it would actually be very useful to know for sure it didn't work.	David Keith, a solar geoengineering (GE) expert at Harvard University has said there is a real danger that his work could be exploited by those who oppose action on emissions, at the same time as he defended himself and colleagues from the claims GE strengthens the argument for abandoning the targets set by the Paris climate agreement."	However, the common consensus is that the techniques should be used in addition to reductions in CO2 emissions.		Geoengineering is not a quick fix for climate change, experts warn Trump Leading climate scientists have warned that geoengineering research could be hijacked by climate change deniers as an excuse not to reduce CO2 emissions, citing the US administration under Donald Trump as a major threat to their work. David Keith, a solar geoengineering (GE) expert at Harvard University has said there is a real danger that his work could be exploited by those who oppose action on emissions, at the same time as he defended himself and colleagues from the claims GE strengthens the argument for abandoning the targets set by the Paris climate agreement." ne of the main concerns I and everyone involved in this have, is that Trump might tweet 'geoengineering solves everything – we don't have to bother about emissions.' That would break the slow-moving agreement among many environmental groups that sound research in this field makes sense," Keith said on the sidelines of the Climate Engineering Conference (CEC) in Berlin. Indeed, utterances from people in or close to the Trump administration – most notably GE proponent secretary of state Rex Tillerson, who has referred to climate change as "just an engineering problem" – make it clear they either tacitly or directly support the idea of climate engineering. Earlier this year, Keith, a professor of applied physics at Harvard announced plans to conduct an outdoor trial into stratospheric aerosol injection, involving launching a high-altitude balloon that will spray a small quantity of reflective particles into the stratosphere. Keith believes the experiment may help to measure the feasibility and risks involved in GE, an umbrella term for a range of techniques to deliberately adjust the climate in an effort to mitigate global warming. They include reflecting sunlight from space, adding huge quantities of lime or iron to the oceans, pumping deep cold nutrient-rich waters to the surface of oceans and irrigating vast swaths of desert to grow trees. Supporters of research into geoengineering argue that its techniques – roughly-speaking divided into carbon dioxide removal (CDR, or negative emission technologies) which removes greenhouse gases, and solar-radiation management (SRM or solar geoengineering) which reduces the amount of solar energy warming the planet – could help to lessen some of the consequences of climate change. However, the common consensus is that the techniques should be used in addition to reductions in CO2 emissions. This week's conference drew attention to the huge risks involved." ll the techniques being proposed have potentially severe environmental impacts," said Silvia Ribeiro of the ETC Group, leading campaign monitors of new technologies and their possible impact on the world's poorest." hey also ignore the question as to why there's not enough political will to have done more to tackle climate change until now and they in turn serve to justify the inaction," she added. Concerns focus on techniques such as stratospheric aerosol injection, which some experts say has the potential to reduce the amount of rain from Asian and African monsoons and could have a devastating impact on the food supply of billions of people. Aerosol injection also has the potential to reduce the ozone layer and heighten the risk of exposure to ultraviolet radiation. Other possible side effects of GE may be an increase in ocean acidification, a change in weather patterns, a rapid rise in temperatures, and a huge uptake in the use of agricultural land, all of which could prompt mass migration of millions of climate change refugees. But scientists such as Keith, and Mark Lawrence, scientific director of the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies (IASS) in Potsdam, argue that with the Paris agreement goals to limit temperature rise to two degrees or less, almost impossible to achieve, the world has little choice than to thoroughly explore technical intervention and the potential it has to avoid global disaster." t will be very difficult to achieve the Paris agreement calls without some form of climate engineering," Lawrence said. "It's not impossible, but it's hard to imagine we would make the major changes in our infrastructure and lifestyles in the time necessary." Keith also dismissed the view that climate engineers like himself were on a mission to prove that climate engineering worked at all costs, or else see the importance of decades of their life's work evaporate." t the best climate engineering is a supplement, and it could be that we shouldn't do it," he insisted. "Our work is to inform better choices and it would actually be very useful to know for sure it didn't work. Right now there are heads of state and others in leadership who are explicitly assuming it could work, that it's there if we need it. But let's say we found something deep in the climate models which suggested we were overoptimistic about solar geoengineering, then I would say 'abandon it'. That would be great. I'd love to publish that."	False
822	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-10-24	In other words, nobody is denying that climate changes, nobody is denying that the planet has warmed by 0.8 degrees C in the last 150 years, while only a handful deny that carbon dioxide (and other greenhouse gases) has the power to influence temperatures.	Here – courtesy of Kenneth Richard, who has waded through them all – are some examples of what they say.	And current emissions-mitigation policies, especially related to the advocacy for renewables, are often costly, ineffective, and perhaps even harmful to the environment.	On the other hand, elevated CO2 and a warmer climate provide unheralded benefits to the biosphere (i.e., a greener planet and enhanced crop yields).	What they are saying in their different ways is that "global warming" – as in the big scare story that the planet is heating up at a catastrophic unprecedented rate because of man-made CO2 emissions – is bunk; or that the methods being used to combat the problem are bunk.		Delingpole: Now 400 Scientific Papers in 2017 Say 'Global Warming' Is a Myth Since then, that figure has risen to 400 scientific papers. Can you imagine the misery and consternation and horror this is going to cause in the corrupt, rancid, rent-seeking world of the Climate Industrial Complex?I can. It will look something like this. Just to be clear, so the greenies can't bleat about being misrepresented, here is what these various papers say:Modern temperatures, sea levels, and extreme weather events are neither unusual nor unprecedented.  Many regions of the Earth are cooler now than they have been for most of the last 10,000 years. Natural factors such as the Sun (106 papers), multi-decadal oceanic-atmospheric oscillations such as the NAO, AMO/PDO, ENSO (37 papers), decadal-scale cloud cover variations, and internal variability in general have exerted a significant influence on weather and climate changes during both the past and present.  Detecting a clear anthropogenic forcing signal amidst the noise of unforced natural variability may therefore be difficult. And current emissions-mitigation policies, especially related to the advocacy for renewables, are often costly, ineffective, and perhaps even harmful to the environment.  On the other hand, elevated CO2 and a warmer climate provide unheralded benefits to the biosphere (i.e., a greener planet and enhanced crop yields). In other words, nobody is denying that climate changes, nobody is denying that the planet has warmed by 0.8 degrees C in the last 150 years, while only a handful deny that carbon dioxide (and other greenhouse gases) has the power to influence temperatures. What they are saying in their different ways is that "global warming" – as in the big scare story that the planet is heating up at a catastrophic unprecedented rate because of man-made CO2 emissions – is bunk; or that the methods being used to combat the problem are bunk. Here – courtesy of Kenneth Richard, who has waded through them all – are some examples of what they say. Greenhouse Effect Not the Main Driver of ClimateTogether with these 400 new papers, that makes 900 science papers in the last two years casting doubt on global warming.	False
452	politicususa	left_bias	2018-07-02	The lawsuit contended that the companies sought to refute scientific findings regarding how greenhouse gas pollution was causing climate change, and failed to prevent the harm that would result from consumers' using fossil fuel products.	The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers, consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products."	The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages as well as orders requiring the companies to pay abatement costs and to disgorge profits.	The lawsuit by the Democratic attorney general follows similar cases by U.S. cities and local governments, arguing the production of fossil fuels had led to rising tides that damaged shorelines, roads and other properties requiring remediation.	The lawsuit said that companies also violated the state's Environmental Rights Act by polluting and destroying natural resources in Rhode Island.		Rhode Island sues major oil companies over climate change (Reuters) – Rhode Island on Monday sued several major oil companies, including Exxon Mobil Corp and BP plc, accusing them of contributing to climate change that is damaging infrastructure and coastal communities in the state. The lawsuit announced by Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Kilmartin was the first by a state seeking to hold oil companies responsible for costs associated with climate change and followed similar cases by several local governments nationally. The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers, consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products." or a very long time, there has been this perception that 'Big Oil' was too big to take on, but here we are – the smallest state – taking on some of the biggest corporate polluters in the world," Kilmartin said in a statement. The lawsuit, filed in Providence County Superior Court, named as defendants Exxon, BP, Royal Dutch Shell Plc, and Chevron Corp, among other companies. Shell, in a statement, said, "lawsuits that masquerade as climate action and impede the collaboration needed for meaningful change" were not the answer to climate change. The other companies did not respond to requests for comment. The lawsuit by the Democratic attorney general follows similar cases by U.S. cities and local governments, arguing the production of fossil fuels had led to rising tides that damaged shorelines, roads and other properties requiring remediation. The lawsuit contended that the companies sought to refute scientific findings regarding how greenhouse gas pollution was causing climate change, and failed to prevent the harm that would result from consumers' using fossil fuel products. The lawsuit said that companies also violated the state's Environmental Rights Act by polluting and destroying natural resources in Rhode Island. Kilmartin is seeking to force the companies to pay for damages associated with climate change, citing the costs taxpayers were incurring to repair roads and bridges and rebuild coastal structures. The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages as well as orders requiring the companies to pay abatement costs and to disgorge profits.	False
655	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-06-03	We want to be there, we want to be providing solutions for the world.	This is about an ambitious and unshakable desire to leave a cleaner, healthier and more sustainable planet for our kids and for generations to come."	anada wants to create good jobs, and wants to grow our economy and create opportunities for business.	Despite the lofty objectives, when Trudeau signed the Paris accord he was widely criticized in Canada by environmentalists for selling out to an agreement that they said was far too lenient on greenhouse gas producers.	We know where we're going."		Trudeau Team 'Disappointed' Over U.S. Exit From Paris Climate Accord Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his "climate change" minister Catherine McKenna are both "disappointed" over President Donald Trump's decision to break with the Paris climate accord. Trudeau and Trump exchanged words over the phone on Thursday night when the prime minister "expressed his disappointment with the president's decision," according to a news release from the Prime Minister's Office. Through crestfallen, Trudeau reiterated to the president "Canada's continued commitment to working internationally to address climate change. This is about an ambitious and unshakable desire to leave a cleaner, healthier and more sustainable planet for our kids and for generations to come." Despite the lofty objectives, when Trudeau signed the Paris accord he was widely criticized in Canada by environmentalists for selling out to an agreement that they said was far too lenient on greenhouse gas producers. Nonetheless, Liberal Environment and Climate Change Minister Catherine McKenna also found Trump's resolve to extricate the U.S. from the accord "deeply disappointing" and even suggested that the president will be missing out from the "inevitable" increase in green energy jobs that climate change proponents believe will soon be mushrooming around the world." he clean-growth economy is where the world is going and Canada is going to be part of it," McKenna said Thursday on Parliament Hill." anada wants to create good jobs, and wants to grow our economy and create opportunities for business. We want to be there, we want to be providing solutions for the world. We know where we're going." However, the U.S. move might well affect Trudeau's plans to implement a national carbon tax and his overall environmental agenda that many critics say will make the Canadian economy less competitive than its American counterpart. With the North American Free Trade Agreement on the cusp of renegotiation, environmental policy could well become integral to reaching a new agreement.	False
225	thenewyorktimes	left_center_bias	2019-05-21	E.P.A.	The E.P.A.	Plans to Get Thousands of Deaths Off the Books by Changing Its Math Want climate news in your inbox?	Many experts said that approach was not scientifically sound and that, in the real world, there are no safe levels of the fine particulate pollution associated with the burning of fossil fuels.	In this case, the proposed methodology would assume there is little or no health benefit to making the air any cleaner than what the law requires.		E.P.A. Plans to Get Thousands of Deaths Off the Books by Changing Its Math Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. WASHINGTON — The Environmental Protection Agency plans to change the way it calculates the health risks of air pollution, a shift that would make it easier to roll back a key climate change rule because it would result in far fewer predicted deaths from pollution, according to five people with knowledge of the agency's plans. The E.P.A. had originally forecast that eliminating the Obama-era rule, the Clean Power Plan, and replacing it with a new measure would have resulted in an additional 1,400 premature deaths per year. The new analytical model would significantly reduce that number and would most likely be used by the Trump administration to defend further rollbacks of air pollution rules if it is formally adopted. The proposed shift is the latest example of the Trump administration downgrading the estimates of environmental harm from pollution in regulations. In this case, the proposed methodology would assume there is little or no health benefit to making the air any cleaner than what the law requires. Many experts said that approach was not scientifically sound and that, in the real world, there are no safe levels of the fine particulate pollution associated with the burning of fossil fuels. Fine particulate matter — the tiny, deadly particles that can penetrate deep into the lungs and enter the bloodstream — is linked to heart attacks, strokes and respiratory disease.	False
309	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-05	e need to invest in these communities and their ability to withstand storms and other natural disasters and their ability to have something as simple as clean water or breathe clean air," he said.	Julian Castro Climate Plan Addresses 'Environmental Injustice and Racism' "You all know that oftentimes the first folks that get flooded out are the poorest communities.	think about poor communities along the east coast," he said.	hat's the environmental injustice and racism that we're dealing with, and my plan would equip Americans with the tools to fight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what is right now a tremendous injustice," he said.	They're often communities of color.		Julian Castro Climate Plan Addresses 'Environmental Injustice and Racism' "You all know that oftentimes the first folks that get flooded out are the poorest communities. They're often communities of color. They're the ones who can least afford to deal with the climate crisis," he said during the CNN town hall." e know that this climate crisis is going to affect all Americans and all folks around the world, [but] we also know that it's going to hit some people particularly hard — people that are the first people to get affected," he said. Castro said that after he announced his campaign, he first went to San Juan, Puerto Rico, to make sure that they could recover from Hurricane Maria."  think about poor communities along the east coast," he said. "Frankly, I connect the dot to places like Flint, Michigan, and I know that too oftentimes, it's people who are poor, communities of color, who take the brunt of storms that are getting more frequent and powerful." He said his climate plan calls for "new civil rights legislation" to address "environmental injustice," including making sure people could file lawsuits against polluters." e need to invest in these communities and their ability to withstand storms and other natural disasters and their ability to have something as simple as clean water or breathe clean air," he said. He said as former Housing and Urban Development secretary in the Obama administration, he found out that 70 percent of HUD-funded public or subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site." hat's the environmental injustice and racism that we're dealing with, and my plan would equip Americans with the tools to fight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what is right now a tremendous injustice," he said. He said to pay for his plan, he would create a "carbon pollution fee" on corporations who are "industrial-scale polluters."	False
245	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-12-13	e are offering up what we see as the common sense solution and the way forward for the party," O'Brien said in the Reuters article.	t's not sustainable for Republicans, through the leadership, to say 'We just don't want to talk about this,'" Lott said.	At least one older Republican backs the idea."	he key here is the dividend – back to the people," former Sen. Trent Lott (R-MS), who supports the young group, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation."	"Our plan would provide incentives for companies and individuals to lower emissions in ways they think are best."		Young Conservatives Balk at Republicans' Climate Change Stance, Launch Campaign for Carbon Tax The generation that has grown up with the constant drumbeat of manmade climate change is now shaping public policy, including some young conservatives who have launched a nationwide campaign in support of a carbon tax. The Thomson Reuters Foundation reported on the campaign, which runs counter to the stance of the Republican Party and President Donald Trump that the issue is more about globalization than saving the planet:Drawn from Republican groups on more than two dozen university campuses, the Young Conservatives for Carbon Dividends called for laws to tax oil, natural gas and coal producers of planet-warming greenhouse gases. The taxation plan would make fossil fuels more costly while the resulting revenues would go to taxpayers. "We claim to be the party that cares about the future that our children will inherit, and we need climate policy that reflects that," said Kiera O'Brien, 21, a senior at Harvard University who co-founded the group." e are offering up what we see as the common sense solution and the way forward for the party," O'Brien said in the Reuters article. The article pointed out that Trump has rejected the climate doomsday scenario and has instead acted to help the U.S. energy sector by slashing regulations and withdrawing the U.S. from the Paris Climate Accord, both policies aimed at helping American workers and the economy. The college Republicans behind the carbon tax campaign said the Party should have, ahead of the 2020 election, a climate change plan in place. Their plan includes an initial $40-a-ton tax on carbon dioxide – a greenhouse gas – at mines, wells, and ports where products are produced. That tax rate would increase over time, according to Reuters.O'Brien said the plan includes a family of four receiving $2,000 a year from the carbon tax revenues to help with higher energy costs. The plan "harnesses the power of the free market to solve climate change through innovation," O'Brien said. "Our plan would provide incentives for companies and individuals to lower emissions in ways they think are best." The campaign will connect young conservatives with Republican lawmakers around the country to talk about climate policy. At least one older Republican backs the idea." he key here is the dividend – back to the people," former Sen. Trent Lott (R-MS), who supports the young group, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation." t's not sustainable for Republicans, through the leadership, to say 'We just don't want to talk about this,'" Lott said.	False
351	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-12-03	org.	"We all know the benefits of energy but there are associated effects that we have to manage."	The pledge is a significant change in position for van Beurden, who had previously opposed such proposals, citing concerns about potential lawsuits.	The lack of transparency and competition in the proxy advisory firm industry gives a small number of businesses significant influence over how corporations deal with environmental issues.	The company has also pledged to review its connections to industry lobbying groups that oppose the Paris agreement, a non-binding deal crafted in 2015 with the goal of dramatically reducing global carbon emissions over the next 15 years.		Shell Will Tie Executive Pay To Future Carbon Emission Targets Shell is preparing to set strict carbon emissions targets in 2019 amid intense pressure from activist shareholders who believe energy companies should be held accountable for aspects of global warming. The company also plans on linking such targets to the pay of senior executives, subject to a shareholder vote in 2020. Shell is still in talks with investors about the percentage to be targets, but the company's top employee's salaries could be affected, The Financial Times reported Sunday." e will be systematically driving down our carbon footprint over time," chief executive Ben van Beurden told reporters Sunday. "We all know the benefits of energy but there are associated effects that we have to manage." The pledge is a significant change in position for van Beurden, who had previously opposed such proposals, citing concerns about potential lawsuits. His concerns about potential waves of lawsuits are not unfounded. Environmentalists have convinced several American cities to sue Exxon, Chevron, and other energy companies to force them to pay for supposedly making disasters worse. Judges have already dismissed several lawsuits, but the fear of future litigation is not lost on Shell and others. Shell now aims to curb emissions by around 20 percent over the next 15 years, and the company will hammer out specific targets starting in 2020. The latest move was backed by Climate Action 100, a group of nearly 300 international investors carrying roughly $32 trillion in assets. The company has also pledged to review its connections to industry lobbying groups that oppose the Paris agreement, a non-binding deal crafted in 2015 with the goal of dramatically reducing global carbon emissions over the next 15 years. Activist shareholders have continually pushed energy companies to make bold moves showing their adherence to cutting emissions. Some analyst groups worry activist shareholders use a largely unregulated industry to hoodwink U.S. companies into accepting proposals designed to tackle climate change that carry little long-term benefits. (RELATED: A Federal Judge Torches Two Lawsuits Trying To Blame Oil Companies For Climate Change)So-called proxy advisory firms craft disclosure requirements that force companies to show they are taking efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions. The process especially disadvantages small companies in favor of larger companies that have the resources to comply with investor dictates, the American Council for Capital Formation noted in May. Proxy advisory firms provide analysis and consulting services to issuers and companies about how annual and special proxies should be voted. The lack of transparency and competition in the proxy advisory firm industry gives a small number of businesses significant influence over how corporations deal with environmental issues. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
467	vox	left_bias	2018-12-06	No harm, no foul.	"It's a no-standard standard."	Even as nations are gathering in Poland this week to discuss how to implement the Paris climate agreement, the US delegation plans to host a panel touting the virtues of fossil fuels, the biggest sources of greenhouse gas emissions that drive climate change."	t's nothing burger," he said.	And coal consumption is at its lowest level since 1979.		The EPA plans to lift greenhouse gas limits on coal power plants The Environmental Protection Agency is expected to roll back more regulations on coal-fired power plants Thursday. It's a striking move for two big reasons: No new coal plants are being built in the US, and the EPA itself (along with 12 other federal agencies) recently put out a sweeping report detailing the need to reduce emissions from fossil fuels because of the grave threat of climate change. Axios reported this week that on Thursday afternoon the agency will announce its intent to loosen Obama-era restrictions on how much carbon dioxide new coal power plants can emit. Known as the New Source Performance Standards, a provision under the Clean Air Act, the rule established in 2015 said coal plants couldn't emit more than 1,400 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt-hour. This would have likely required new coal plants to install carbon capture technologies to limit some of their emissions. But the coal industry argued in court that these technologies are too expensive and immature to deploy at scale, so the new standard is too difficult to meet. The lawsuit against the New Source Performance Standard was suspended once the EPA announced last year that it was looking to revise the rule. According to the New York Times, the EPA wants to relax the limit to 1,900 pounds of CO2 per MWh. These weaker standards come after an EPA proposal in August to replace another Obama regulation, the Clean Power Plan, which targets existing power plants. The replacement, the Affordable Clean Energy rule, would lead to 1,400 additional premature deaths each year by 2030, according to EPA's own calculations. Weakening pollution rules for existing and new coal-fired power plants is part of the Trump Administration's strategy to resurrect the decrepit US coal industry, which has been shrinking and hemorrhaging jobs for decades. But it's not regulations that are hurting the US coal industry; it's competition. Natural gas and renewables are increasingly cheaper than coal. With energy demand projected to stay level, that means it's coal that's going to yield. However, the Trump's policies stand to slow the transition toward cleaner sources of energy at a time when scientists are warning that the world may have as little as 12 years to act to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius since the industrial revolution. Even as nations are gathering in Poland this week to discuss how to implement the Paris climate agreement, the US delegation plans to host a panel touting the virtues of fossil fuels, the biggest sources of greenhouse gas emissions that drive climate change." The rollback]'s an international signal that we're not taking carbon capture and sequestration and reducing impacts from coal seriously," said Jay Duffy, an associate attorney at the Clean Air Task Force. As we've pointed out over and over again, the coal industry in the United States has been floundering for years, and there's little Trump can do to stop it. In 2018 alone, 20 coal-fired power plants have closed or are scheduled to shut down. Overall coal power generation capacity has fallen by one-third since 2010. And coal consumption is at its lowest level since 1979. Meanwhile coal mining jobs have cratered from a high of more than 800,000 in the 1920s to roughly 76,000 today. The EPA's latest proposal only affects new coal power plants. The last new coal plant to come online in the US was the 600-megawatt John W. Turk, Jr. Power Plant in Arkansas back in 2012. It's actually one of the most high-tech, most efficient coal power plants in the country. But with a $1.8 billion price tag, it was the most expensive project in Arkansas history. Duffy pointed out that the Turk plant emits about 1,725 pounds of CO2 per megawatt hour, so it's already beating the EPA's proposed benchmarks. It's likely that with current technology, any hypothetical new coal power plant would have to do almost nothing to cut its greenhouse gas emissions, rendering the new regulation meaningless." t's nothing burger," he said. "It's a no-standard standard." Yet coal plants are closing everywhere, and no new ones are even on the drawing board. In fact, environmental groups can't even sue to block the proposal at this point, since there is no plant in the works that could potentially violate the Obama-era greenhouse gas limits. No harm, no foul. However, environmental groups are ready to litigate if the proposal becomes finalized. Where this proposal could make a difference is in extending the lives of existing plants, Duffy explained. There's a quirk in EPA regulations that says that if you modify an existing coal plant enough, it can be considered as a new plant. So in theory, an aging power plant could get some upgrades that would extend its operating life but would also allow it to be held to the weaker greenhouse gas limit. Taken in tandem with all of the other Trump proposals to boost coal — relaxed rules on stream protection, coal ash, and mercury — as well as curbing incentives for clean energy, it adds up to a prolonging of the steady demise of coal power in the United States. Correction: An earlier version of this story said that environmental groups could not sue to block the EPA's latest New Source Performance Standard rule. Groups can sue once the proposal is finalized as a rule. However, they can't sue while the rule is in the proposal stage and there are no power plants seeking to implement the proposal.	False
435	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-12-04	"There's peace time and there's global nuclear combat.	The media focused on global nuclear combat."	"The facts of the matter is observable data, climate change is more toward the peace time," he added, comparing the document to international relations.	e want to embrace better stewardship.	It's a job that comes with the sometimes conflicting tasks of preserving and protecting public lands and waters for future generations while also setting the policies that govern extracting natural resources from them.		Ryan Zinke To Oil Reps: 'We've Gotten A Lot Better As Industry' It was clear Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke felt at home Tuesday addressing representatives of the industry that was a top donor to his congressional campaigns. It's the same industry that the Trump administration has worked so hard to prop up over the last two years, and that Zinke now regulates as chief steward of America's natural resources."  see a lot of familiar faces," he told the National Petroleum Council during its meeting in Washington, D.C., before launching into a series of go-to talking points about the importance of producing domestic energy, namely fossil fuels, and downplaying the dire conclusions of a recent federal climate report." e want to embrace better stewardship. We want to embrace reliability. In order to get there, we have to understand the technology. And in order to understand it, quite frankly, we have to work with you," he said. "I've been criticized [for] saying we want to work with you. I'll take the criticism." Zinke was referring to controversial comments he made in September during a keynote speech at the Louisiana Oil and Gas Association's meeting in Lafayette, Louisiana. "Our government should work for you," he told the oil and gas trade group, according to a post by the association. As head of the Interior Department, Zinke oversees some 500 million acres of land, or one-fifth of the United States, and 1.7 billion acres on the Outer Continental Shelf. It's a job that comes with the sometimes conflicting tasks of preserving and protecting public lands and waters for future generations while also setting the policies that govern extracting natural resources from them. Zinke has said that he's succeeded in "striking the right balance," but conservation efforts have taken a clear backseat as the administration has pushed forward with its "energy dominance" agenda. There were moments during Tuesday's speech where Zinke sounded like a seasoned oil man. He said he is "bullish" on energy and expects that within two years the U.S. will be "marching real close to" producing 14 million barrels of oil per day. And he agrees with Russian President Vladimir Putin that $60 per barrel is "a good spot to keep the economic engine" in good shape, he said." e've gotten a lot better as industry," Zinke said, quickly correcting himself. "You've gotten a lot better." He pointed to energy producers' success with domestic shale production, noting that companies have been able to turn a profit on oil from the Bakken fields in Montana and North Dakota when prices have been at around $30 per barrel. That, he said, "shows you how good we are and efficient we are." Zinke also saw the friendly atmosphere as an opportunity to, once again, cast doubt on the latest federal climate assessment. The 1,600-page report was issued by 13 federal agencies, including Interior, and released on Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving ― a move that many saw as an administrative attempt to bury the findings. Like so many other climate reports before it, the assessment warns that greenhouse gas emissions have put the planet on a path toward catastrophic climate change. But instead of blasting the report's authors ― there are more than 300 ― for basing their findings on the most extreme scenarios, a false claim that he and the White House pushed last week, Zinke on Tuesday blamed the media among other targets." he media focused on worst-case scenarios, which statistically we may not even be able to reach," he said. "The facts of the matter is observable data, climate change is more toward the peace time," he added, comparing the document to international relations. "It's kind of like the military," he said. "There's peace time and there's global nuclear combat. The media focused on global nuclear combat." A lot of the millennials look at that report and they don't look at the models," instead focusing on "rising sea levels that statistically and data-wise we don't know," he said. Zinke boasted to the room full of oil executives who have been primary beneficiaries of the Trump administration's denial of climate science and energy-dominance agenda, that the U.S. has "led the charge" in reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. His "concern" as the leader of the federal agency, he said, is that "we need to be better at emphasizing the case for American energy."	False
122	motherjones	left_bias	2019-07-27	"A lot of the answers are coming from the communities," he said.	"I thought his point that the timeline is set by science, not by politics, was compelling," Miller said.	Buttigieg said earlier in the night that science sets the timeline for climate action, not politics.	Nevertheless, some audience members were impressed by Buttigieg's vision of a green America.	But where does Buttigieg stand when it comes to implementing an economy-wide plan?Buttigieg's answer to a question from the crowd shed light on what his climate plan could look like when (or if) he releases one.		Mayor Pete Doesn't Have a Climate Plan Yet. This Answer Gives a Major Hint at What It Will Look Like This story was originally published by Grist and appears here as part of the Climate Desk collaboration. More than 1,000 people crowded into the Showbox, a music venue in downtown Seattle, on Tuesday afternoon to witness Pete Buttigieg make an appearance in the Emerald City. The presidential candidate was running more than 45 minutes late and was just beginning to lose his audience—"I'm starting not to love Pete so much," someone remarked—when he took the stage. The mayor of South Bend, Indiana, has risen swiftly in the polls and managed to outraise the rest of the Democratic field this quarter. Buttigieg has credited climate change for inspiring him to jump into the presidential race. "One of the reasons I'm running for president is because America is running out of time," he said on Tuesday, framing the issue as a national security threat: "If we're gonna get real about national security, the time has come to treat climate disruption as the threat that it is." But Buttigieg hasn't yet released a climate plan on par with those proposed by some of his rivals, including Washington Governor Jay Inslee, who aims to mobilize $9 trillion to combat the crisis and has based his entire presidential bid on the issue. Senator Elizabeth Warren, former Texas Representative Beto O'Rourke, and even Joe Biden, the candidate-to-beat according to most polls, have proposed sweeping climate plans with trillions of dollars at play. Mayor Pete has released one climate-related policy proposal so far, a climate corps — similar to AmeriCorps—that would put thousands of Americans to work on climate resilience and conservation endeavors. "We do better when we have a project," he said of his proposal at the Seattle event. But where does Buttigieg stand when it comes to implementing an economy-wide plan?Buttigieg's answer to a question from the crowd shed light on what his climate plan could look like when (or if) he releases one. First: A carbon tax and dividend. "This is not about taking money out of the economy," he said. "I propose that we rebate that money right back out to the American people and we do it progressively." His pitch sounds like a revenue-neutral carbon tax, a fee on pollution that gets returned to taxpayers every year instead of going toward a climate resiliency fund or a green project. We'll have to wait for his actual plan to figure out what he means when he says he wants to do it "progressively." It's an idea that has failed at the ballot-box twice in Washington state, but a couple of other candidates, including Inslee and Cory Booker, have also championed some kind of carbon tax. Next, "massively increase the amount of federal R&D that goes into not just renewable energy but also energy storage and carbon storage," he said, adding that this investment should be on par with the moon landing or the Manhattan Project. Every candidate with a climate plan so far has vowed to dedicate major resources to green research and development. Buttigieg said he wants to quadruple federal funding for R&D. Then, rejoin the Paris Agreement—something that all the Democrats running for president have said they'll do—and host a stateside Pittsburgh Summit for mayors who are championing green policies and targets in their cities. "A lot of the answers are coming from the communities," he said. Finally, Buttigieg emphasized the role rural America can play in mitigating the crisis. "Every part of the American spectrum needs to be a part of the solution; it's not just cities," he said. Buttigieg said earlier in the night that science sets the timeline for climate action, not politics. But even if he took the White House in 2020, a carbon tax, some more federal investment in R&D, a national service corps, and yet another climate summit probably won't put the United States on the path to decarbonization at the pace that science demands. At any rate, it still doesn't have the same meat as the trillions promised and plans proposed by other candidates. Nevertheless, some audience members were impressed by Buttigieg's vision of a green America. Nancy Lauterbach, a 57-year-old real estate agent, said Buttigieg is "savvy enough to put the R&D that is needed into climate change." Ken Miller, a 71-year-old who owns a construction business, liked the mayor's authenticity. "I thought his point that the timeline is set by science, not by politics, was compelling," Miller said. "As well as the fact that we as a country need a project, and climate change is as good a one as we'll ever have."	False
113	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-01-16	2 job, Wheeler said he believed "that man has an impact on the climate, but what's not completely understood is what the impact is."	This is a fudged statistic, however.	Sen. James Inhofe (R-Okla.), who once infamously brought a snowball to the Senate floor to "debunk" climate change, submitted rebuttals to climate science reports from right-wing think tanks such as the Competitive Enterprise Institute and the Cato Institute, both of which are funded by the fossil-fuel billionaire Koch brothers.	Wheeler's climate denial received some backup at Wednesday's hearing.	That meeting ended, as another photo showed, with a hug between Perry and Murray.		EPA Nominee Andrew Wheeler Downplays Climate Threat At Testy Confirmation Hearing He refused to call the rapid warming of the planet a crisis. He repeatedly misrepresented his own agency's findings about a rule to gut an Obama-era power plant regulation, inflating the emissions cuts the new proposal would mandate. He even mixed up two of the most important climate science reports to come out in the last three months, admitting he hadn't fully read the report co-authored by researchers at his own agency. It was a brazen if not unexpected stance from the nominee to become the EPA's 15th administrator. Wheeler isn't new to the job: Last month, he became the longest-serving acting chief in the agency's history, having taken over in July when former Administrator Scott Pruitt resigned in disgrace amid mounting scandals. In November 2017, when he appeared before the Senate environment and public works committee to interview for the EPA's No. 2 job, Wheeler said he believed "that man has an impact on the climate, but what's not completely understood is what the impact is." In October, the United Nations released a landmark determination that the world has until 2030 to halve global emissions or face catastrophic climate change. A month later, the federal government's National Climate Assessment ― a congressionally mandated report issued by 13 agencies, including the EPA ― confirmed the findings and warned of cataclysmic damage to the United States economy and human health and "by 9°F (5°C) or more by the end of this century." During Wednesday's hearing, Wheeler initially mistook the United Nations report for the National Climate Assessment. Asked about the latter, he said he "did not review the report before it came out," and that he held just one briefing meeting with his career staffers. He said the partial federal government shutdown, now its fourth week, forced him to delay future briefings. Wheeler dismissed the report this month that found U.S. emissions rose 3.4 percent last year, blaming the jump on a manufacturing and industrial surge triggered by the Trump administration's deregulatory effort. But he claimed his proposals to dramatically weaken emissions rules for vehicles and power plants ― the largest and second largest sources of climate pollution, respectively ― would provide reductions in line with the Obama-era regulations they aim to replace. When pressed about the need to cut emissions, Wheeler returned to a certain statistic over and over again, stating that the Affordable Clean Energy rule he proposed in August would deliver carbon dioxide reductions 34 percent below 2005 levels, compared to the 33 to 35 percent the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan would have provided. This is a fudged statistic, however. The EPA's own analysis shows the so-called ACE rule would actually increase CO2 emissions by 20 to 61 million tons, nitrous oxide by 14,000 to 43,000 tons and sulfur dioxide by 29,000 to 53,000 tons. Those increases are expected to cause up to 1,400 premature deaths per year by 2030. Wheeler's climate denial received some backup at Wednesday's hearing. Sen. James Inhofe (R-Okla.), who once infamously brought a snowball to the Senate floor to "debunk" climate change, submitted rebuttals to climate science reports from right-wing think tanks such as the Competitive Enterprise Institute and the Cato Institute, both of which are funded by the fossil-fuel billionaire Koch brothers. Wheeler blamed the shutdown for the delay in releasing a plan to deal with toxic perfluorinated substances in drinking water. Over the past few years, the chemicals, known as PFAS and linked to cancer and thyroid disease, have been found in water sources across the country. Wheeler, however, declined to commit to a two-year deadline for setting a drinking water standard for PFAS. Republican senators praised Wheeler's proposal to replace another Obama-era rule that sought to safeguard drinking water for millions of Americans by extending federal protections to 2 million miles of streams and 20 million acres of wetlands. Sen. Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska) even prompted Wheeler with a question about his nearly two decades working for Bob Murray, the influential and bombastic baron who runs the nation's largest privately owned coal company. Wheeler used his response to note that the last four years of his time working for Murray were spent advocating for miners' pensions. Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) brought out some visual aids to question Wheeler further about his relationship with Murray ― including a poster-sized printout of a photo leaked from a March 2017 meeting between Murray and Energy Secretary Rick Perry, where the coal executive provided a detailed wish list of policies to the administration. That meeting ended, as another photo showed, with a hug between Perry and Murray. Wheeler is seen sitting beside Murray in the picture.	False
277	rt	questionable_source	2019-07-14	If both options were to fail, Beykpour suggested "we dump this site" and move on.	Beykpour offered his boss two "long shot" options to push back against the public outcry.	The Chronicle rubbished the threat, quoting a media law expert who stated that the company's email screw-up was its own fault and not the newspaper's.	Option one involved hiring a PR firm to manufacture fake "grassroots" support for the facility and "change the conversation."	In his email, Beykpour had claimed the Chronicle was "in bed with the opposition.		Community showdown with bottled water plant gets surprise twist when company reveals its own emails Bottled water firm Crystal Geyser's heavily-protested plans for a plant in Washington state are all but dashed, after company execs accidentally sent an internal email calling the operation "dead" to the local press. Crystal Geyser bottles natural spring water and sells it to thirsty Americans, with nearly one in five consumers drinking its beverages every month. However, few are happy to live near the firm's bottling plants, where they say heavy traffic disturbs their sleep and the company's water collection activities threaten endangered species and destroy the "rural character" of their areas. Earlier this year, Crystal Geyser bought land in Lewis County, Washington. The company planned on building a 100,000 square foot plant that would extract 400 gallons of water per minute from nearby springs. At present, Crystal Geyser needs a county permit to begin operations. However, in an email accidentally sent to The Chronicle but intended for a higher-up, Chief Operating Officer Page Beykpour said that the plan is likely "dead because the opposition has successfully convinced officials and the media against us." Locals did come out in force against the plant, with concerned citizens flooding council meetings since the plans were announced last month. Facebook groups have sprung up to oppose the plant, and the local tribal council voted unanimously against it. Beykpour offered his boss two "long shot" options to push back against the public outcry. Option one involved hiring a PR firm to manufacture fake "grassroots" support for the facility and "change the conversation." With pro-corporate protesters likely to raise some eyebrows, he outlined a more radical approach: sue locals in the area for past damages to the local water system to bring "them to the table." If both options were to fail, Beykpour suggested "we dump this site" and move on. Once the paper got a hold of the email, Crystal Geyser went into panic mode. The newspaper claims Beykpour called the Chronicle and "pleaded for the email not to be published," and admitted that the company is still mulling suing its neighbors. In his email, Beykpour had claimed the Chronicle was "in bed with the opposition."A lawyer representing Crystal Geyser called the newspaper and threatened legal action for running the story. The Chronicle rubbished the threat, quoting a media law expert who stated that the company's email screw-up was its own fault and not the newspaper's. RT has reached out to Crystal Geyser for comment, and is awaiting a response. Crystal Geyser is no stranger to local anger. Residents in Mount Shasta, California were furious when the company announced plans to bottle water from a local aquefier in 2014, at a time when the state was threatened by drought and Californians faced mandatory water-use restrictions. In 2018, the company was accused of illegally disposing of arsenic-tainted wastewater from another of its California plants. According to a 16-count indictment, Crystal Geyser discharged the toxic waste into a pond that staff dubbed the "arsenic pond," and then worked with two waste disposal firms to illegally transport the arsenic to a plant without a license to treat it. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False
628	National Review	right_bias	2017-05-15	In doing so, they reveal their own selective adherence to scientific reason.— Jillian Kay Melchior is a fellow at the Independent Women's Forum.	Somewhere, somehow, the vile stuff gets out and when it does, it causes untold damage to the environment."	These facts received little coverage, the media instead portraying a David-and-Goliath fight in which virtuous protesters took on a corrupt, wealthy industry.	National media readily adopted opponents' preferred rhetoric in articles, calling demonstrators the "water protectors" and repeating their claims that the protests were "peaceful and prayerful."	"The containment system and notification system worked as they should."		Does the Environmental Left Understand How Modern Pipelines Work? Last week week, a routine entry in the searchable database at the website of the South Dakota Department of Environment and Natural Resources indicated that the Dakota Access Pipeline saw an 84-gallon crude-oil spill in April. The environmental Left rushed to publicize the incident as an "I told you so" moment, but activists' gloating reveals either their cynical dishonesty or their ignorance about how modern pipelines work. The spill occurred in an Energy Transfer Partners facility specifically equipped to catch spills. Moreover, the precautions in place to prevent environmental damage worked exactly as they should, according to the South Dakota Department of Environment and National Resources." s spills go, this spill was contained, all product was cleaned up quickly, and there were no impacts to the environment," Kim Smith, a spokesperson for the South Dakota department, told me. "The containment system and notification system worked as they should." Compare that to the hysterical reaction from leftist activists and their media allies. Writing in the Guardian, opinionist Julian Brave NoiseCat said that the leak "demonstrates the risk of technological and human failure inherent in crude oil pipelines," adding that "indigenous communities, ranchers, and workers [are] forced to live under the constant threat of petroleum poisoning." Jan Hasselman, a lawyer for the Standing Rock Sioux, told the Huffington Post: "They keep telling everybody that it is state of the art, that leaks won't happen, that nothing can go wrong. It's always been false. They haven't even turned the thing on, and it's shown to be false." And a Clean Technica reporter claimed the incident "drives home an essential truth about all the systems mankind has devised to transport oil from place to place," adding: "They all leak. Somewhere, somehow, the vile stuff gets out and when it does, it causes untold damage to the environment." Such biased narratives have bedeviled the Dakota Access Pipeline from the beginning. National media readily adopted opponents' preferred rhetoric in articles, calling demonstrators the "water protectors" and repeating their claims that the protests were "peaceful and prayerful." In actuality, the protests were anything but peaceful, as we reported at the time. Local authorities struggled to respond as demonstrators resorted to violence and vandalism. Protestors reportedly threw Molotov cocktails and stones at law enforcement, also threatening police and their families and posting their home addresses online. Local ranchers said protestors trespassed on their land and damaged their property. By the time the protests ended, hundreds had been arrested. These facts received little coverage, the media instead portraying a David-and-Goliath fight in which virtuous protesters took on a corrupt, wealthy industry. And while the Left likes to accuse conservatives of being anti-science, it has ignored any evidence that doesn't support its anti-pipeline agenda. Comprehensive environmental reviews, conducted under the Obama administration, showed the risk posed by Keystone XL and the Dakota Access Pipeline to be minimal. But some of the same environmentalists who denounced Trump for moving ahead with the pipelines also rushed to participate in the March for Science. Green activists have also spent the last year publicizing scary statistics about oil pipelines. But just as with the recent Dakota Access Pipeline spill, the reality is less convenient for their political preferences. Cutting-edge technology such as the containment system installed at the pump station in Tulare, S.D., means that it's safer than ever to transport oil by pipeline. The Fraser Institute, a Canadian free-market think tank, analyzed U.S. State Department data, finding that 70 percent of spills that have occurred in North America were a cubic meter or less — hardly the massive leakage environmentalists have implied. Moreover, the Fraser Institute found that only 17 percent of spills take place along the pipeline's route, the rest occurring in facilities such as the Tulare pump station, which are specially equipped to safely handle spills and avoid environmental contamination. Overall, the number of pipeline incidents in which people or the environment were harmed has dropped by more than 50 percent since 1999 — even as the United States saw its energy production skyrocket. The outcome of the Dakota Access Pipeline spill was a technological triumph that should reassure its skeptics. The pipeline's opponents are trying to spin it into a cautionary tale. In doing so, they reveal their own selective adherence to scientific reason.— Jillian Kay Melchior is a fellow at the Independent Women's Forum.	False
506	npr	left_center_bias	2018-06-13	But that has changed.	And many of those papers showed different results."	"So that was the motivation for originally setting up the project."	That could be a big deal, he says, "for anybody who lives, works and governs a coastal region."	That's "an important distinction, because it means it's insulated from changes in the ocean's temperature."		Antarctica Has Lost More Than 3 Trillion Tons Of Ice In 25 Years Antarctica Has Lost More Than 3 Trillion Tons Of Ice In 25 YearsScientists have completed the most exhaustive assessment of changes in Antarctica's ice sheet to date. And they found that it's melting faster than they thought. Ice losses totaling 3 trillion tonnes (or more than 3.3 trillion tons) since 1992 have caused global sea levels to rise by 7.6 mm, nearly one third of an inch, according to a study published in Nature on Wednesday. Before 2010, Antarctica was contributing a relatively small proportion of the melting that is causing global sea levels to rise, says study co-leader Andrew Shepherd of the University of Leeds. But that has changed. "Since around 2010, 2012, we can see that there's been a sharp increase in the rate of ice loss from Antarctica. And the ice sheet is now losing three times as much ice," Shepherd adds. The annual sea level rise that's attributed to Antarctica has tripled, from 0.2mm to 0.6mm, he says." That's a big jump, and it did catch us all by surprise," Shepherd says. The melting is caused by rising ocean temperatures due to climate change. Shepherd says they've seen the most dramatic effects in West Antarctica, where the ice sheet rests on the sea bed. "When we look into the ocean we find that it's too warm and the ice sheet can't withstand the temperatures that are surrounding it in the sea," he says. That's causing glaciers to flow more quickly into the sea. East Antarctica, which is home to the South Pole, has seen considerably less melting because most of its ice is above sea level. That's "an important distinction, because it means it's insulated from changes in the ocean's temperature." This assessment, conducted by 84 scientists from 44 international organizations, is known as the Ice Sheet Mass Balance Inter-comparison Exercise (IMBIE). There have been many other estimates of how much ice has melted in Antarctica. And many of those papers showed different results." Some of the estimates covered different proportions of the ice sheets, some of them covered different time periods, and all of them used different methods and so it became difficult for people who are not specialists to try to pick them apart," says Shepherd. "So that was the motivation for originally setting up the project." The scientists combined 24 different satellite surveys, which Shepherd says provides a more complete picture of the overall ice sheet change than previous studies. "We believe that we've captured all of the different satellite records that exist on the planet," he says. To analyze the ice, the researchers use three different kinds of measurements. Satellite altimeters measure the height of the ice sheets, to see how much they are thinning or thickening over time. Another measurement records the speed of the glaciers and how they're moving into the ocean. Finally, the scientists are recording gravity measurements for Antarctica. These "tell us about changes in the earth's gravitational attraction over time and that can be related to the mass of the ice sheets overall," Shepherd says, "and they are really powerful measurements because they can add up everything across Antarctica." So what accounts for the apparent three-fold speed up in Antarctica's melting in the last five years?Shepherd says that actually, their data shows a "a progressive increase in ice loss throughout the whole 25 year time period." However, a period of heavy snowfall between 2005 and 2010 masked some of the immediate effects of the ice loss, accounting for the sudden, steep increase in more recent years. This new data creates a much starker picture of the future than previous estimates. Shepherd says until 2010, the data had been tracking a lower scenario which estimated that Antarctica "wouldn't make much of a contribution to sea level rise at all" because of the effects of higher snowfall. However, he says that now the data is tracking a higher scenario, which could mean nearly 6 inches of additional sea level rise in the next century. That could be a big deal, he says, "for anybody who lives, works and governs a coastal region." Understanding the rate of Antarctica's melting is crucial for these communities. If all of the ice in Antarctica melted, global sea levels would rise by more than 190 feet.	False
567	breitbart	questionable_source	2018-07-28	so the incentives are not great."	According to the poll, which has a 3.4% margin of error, 67% of Democrats, 54% of independents, and 33% of Republicans believe that Democrat Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom and Republican businessman John Cox's views on environmental issues will impact how they vote.	Poll: Half of Likely California Voters See Environment as Key Issue in Governor's Race Most also say that water is the most important issue to them in that category.	every single time we've covered it's been a palpable ratings killer.	For all the talk about the importance of environmental issues to voters in the deep blue state of California, the topic does not seem to do well for media outlets — even left-wing ones.		Poll: Half of Likely California Voters See Environment as Key Issue in Governor's Race Most also say that water is the most important issue to them in that category. According to the poll, which has a 3.4% margin of error, 67% of Democrats, 54% of independents, and 33% of Republicans believe that Democrat Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom and Republican businessman John Cox's views on environmental issues will impact how they vote. So far, Newsom holds a 24-point lead over Cox, who beat former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigos in the June primary to proceed to the November general election. Meanwhile, the PPIC poll also found that "likely voters see drought and water supply as the top environmental issue facing the state, followed by air pollution; a majority (58%) support a water bond on the November ballot"; and noted that "[a] strong majority of likely voters (69%) say that the effects of global warming have already begun." In an interview with the Flash Report this week, Cox said water, housing affordability, and the gas tax are the three main issues he wants to tackle. He reportedly blamed "out-of-touch-elites" for the Golden State's water issues, and called Newsom the "poster boy" for these problems. Environmental issues have been a strong point for Newsom, who last year said he would use specific environmental laws in California to stop President Donald Trump's border wall from being built. For all the talk about the importance of environmental issues to voters in the deep blue state of California, the topic does not seem to do well for media outlets — even left-wing ones. Chris Hayes of MSNBC recently said networks mostly try to avoid discussing environmental issues related to the topic of climate change because "almost without exception. every single time we've covered it's been a palpable ratings killer. so the incentives are not great." Adelle Nazarian is a politics and national security reporter for Breitbart News. Follow her on Facebook and Twitter.	False
283	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-20	And I want you to unite behind the science."	o more of this handholding with Donald Trump," he told the crowd.	"It's time our leaders listened.	here is nothing more powerful than our nation's youth marching together, demanding action be taken to protect our planet — and their future," Sen. Kamala Harris (D-CA) wrote.	She submitted the United Nation's IPCC Special Report on Global Warming as her written testimony, writing, "I am submitting this report as my testimony because I don't want you to listen to me …I want you to listen to the scientists.		Watch: Global Climate Strike Inspired by Activist Greta Thunberg Underway The global strike, set just days before September 23's U.N. Climate Action Summit in New York, is expected to draw millions of activists, who believe human activity is contributing to climate change and that drastic measures – such as limiting meat consumption, reforming the transportation sector, and banning plastic straws – need to be taken in order to combat the looming threat. Videos are surfacing from protests across the globe, showing sizable crowds in places like Ireland, Germany, Australia, Uganda, and more:Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn participated in the climate strikes in London and condemned President Trump for pulling out of the Paris Climate Agreement." o more of this handholding with Donald Trump," he told the crowd. "We want every country on board on this":There are also climate strikes taking place in major cities across the U.S., including Boston, San Francisco, Seattle, D.C., and New York City. Famed teen activist Greta Thunberg – who sailed to the U.S. in order to avoid making a massive carbon footprint  – will participate in the climate strike in New York City, where over one million students have been given permission to skip class in order to protest climate change:Many Democrat presidential candidates are praising the effort as protests continue to kick-off across the nation." here is nothing more powerful than our nation's youth marching together, demanding action be taken to protect our planet — and their future," Sen. Kamala Harris (D-CA) wrote. "It's time our leaders listened. #ClimateStrike":"Climate change is an existential threat—and we are already facing the effects. The youth-led #ClimateStrike and the solidarity strikes from groups like @AMZNforClimate show that our country is ready to fight for the big, structural change we'll need to tackle the climate crisis," Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) tweeted:"Young people have already demonstrated they can take on powerful fossil fuel companies and force politicians to answer their call to action," Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) wrote." o the millions of young people and allies worldwide who are striking today to demand climate justice: I stand with you. #ClimateStrike," he added:"Our planet is in crisis—but we aren't powerless to combat it," Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) declared. "Inspired by the young people leading on today's #ClimateStrike and committed to standing alongside them in the battle against climate change":The global strike follows Thunberg's appearance before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and Select Committee on the Climate Crisis. She submitted the United Nation's IPCC Special Report on Global Warming as her written testimony, writing, "I am submitting this report as my testimony because I don't want you to listen to me …I want you to listen to the scientists. And I want you to unite behind the science."	False
229	npr	left_center_bias	2019-09-23	associated with such disasters aremounting.	U.N.	"We face a direct existentialthreat.	Humans must limit global warming to ) above preindustrial temperatures in order to avoid themost catastrophic impacts of climate change.	China and the U.S. are the top greenhouse gas emitters in the world, and theircooperation was the crucial foundation for the Paris Agreement.		U.N. Climate Summit Sets Stage For New National Emissions Promises A coal-fired power plant in central Poland. Global greenhouse gas emissionsrose in 2018, and the world is on track for potentially catastrophic climatechange in the coming decades. **Czarek Sokolowski/AP** ****hide caption********toggle caption****Czarek Sokolowski/APA coal-fired power plant in central Poland. Global greenhouse gas emissionsrose in 2018, and the world is on track for potentially catastrophic climatechange in the coming decades. Czarek Sokolowski/APLeaders from nearly 200 countries are attending a special ) on climate change today as theyface increasing pressure from citizens around the world to cut globalgreenhouse gas emissions and slow global warming. Currently, global emissions are on track to cause potentially catastrophicclimate change in the coming decades. The summit acts as a kickoff to international climate negotiations in 2020,which is the next deadline for countries to make dramatic emissions reductionpromises under the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change."I am appealing for leadership from politicians, from businesses andscientists and from the public everywhere," U.N. Secretary-General AntónioGuterres said when he announced the summit. "We face a direct existentialthreat. Climate change is moving faster than we are." Indeed, average temperatures on Earth continue to rise, driving sea levelrise, more frequent and severe storms, longer heat waves and cold snaps, andmore extreme rainstorms and droughts. ) associated with such disasters aremounting. Although nearly every nation on the planet, including the United States,promised to reduce their net greenhouse gas emissions when they signed the), climate scientists warnthat the cumulative pledges are nowhere near sufficient. Humans must limit global warming to ) above preindustrial temperatures in order to avoid themost catastrophic impacts of climate change. But, "right now if you take upall the pledges that governments have put forward for the Paris Agreement,we're looking at about 3.5 degrees [Celsius] of warming by 2100," explains), anassistant professor of environmental studies at Yale-NUS College in Singapore." We're way off," Hsu says. "What's really worrisome is that we need globalemissions to peak by next year, by 2020. That's really soon." China and the U.S. are the top greenhouse gas emitters in the world, and theircooperation was the crucial foundation for the Paris Agreement. Delegationsfrom both countries will attend today's U.N. summit, but their positions havediverged. In the U.S., President Trump has threatened to withdraw from the ParisAgreement, and his administration has moved to allow greater emissions frompower plants, vehicles, and oil and gas operations. Despite local climatepledges by dozens of states and hundreds of cities, "the United States, rightnow, is not on track to meet its climate change commitments under the ParisAgreement," says ), aclimate analyst at the World Resources Institute think tank. China, on the other hand, is on track to meet its commitments, which hinged onreaching peak emissions no later than 2030." There have been some indications that they could peak their emissions by2022," Hsu says. "That's not so far away. That's about eight years ahead ofschedule." And China is now a ) in renewable energy, including solar, wind and hydropower. It's a glimmer of hope in a sea of otherwise dire news. Even as the governmentinvests in clean technology, China is building ) outside its borders as part of its ). And, even if the country's emissions start declining in thecoming years, it will likely be too slow to keep global temperatures in check. Nonetheless, China is expected to be one of the countries to announce theirintention to set more drastic emissions targets at today's summit. India isalso expected to announce a plan to update its emissions promises. And someworld leaders, including the delegation from France, are expected to announcethat they intend to make drastic emissions cuts in the coming decade.	False
304	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-09	The pontiff tied together social and ecological problems, insisting that the two are intimately intertwined."	The pope went on to enumerate his vision of the problem, while also recognizing that many poor people derive their livelihood from activities that threaten the environment."	In that text, the pontiff said that the earth "is beginning to look more and more like an immense pile of filth" as "once beautiful landscapes are now covered with rubbish."	Pope Francis has made the care of the environment a central theme of his six-year pontificate, returning again and again to issues of ecological responsibility, the dangers of carbon emissions, and the scourge of climate change.	n a word, there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earth's goods, not only of present generations, but also of those yet to come," he said.	Pope Francis: Loss of Biodiversity Jeopardizes Earth's Future "Your lovely island of Madagascar is rich in plant and animal biodiversity, yet this treasure is especially threatened by excessive deforestation, from which some profit," Pope Francis told authorities and diplomats on Saturday." <sep> In 2015, he became the first pope in history to devote an entire encyclical letter to the topic of the environment with the publication of Laudato Si ("Praised Be"), urging Christians to become more ecologically aware. <sep> e are faced not with two separate crises, one environmental and the other social, but rather with one complex crisis which is both social and environmental," he said." <sep> It is also true, however, that, for the peoples concerned, a number of activities harmful to the environment at present ensure their survival. <sep> Citing "scientific studies," the pontiff said that "most global warming in recent decades is due to the great concentration of greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide, methane, nitrogen oxides and others) released mainly as a result of human activity." <sep> "Plant and animal biodiversity is endangered by contraband and illegal exportation." <sep> 	Pope Francis: Loss of Biodiversity Jeopardizes Earth's Future "Your lovely island of Madagascar is rich in plant and animal biodiversity, yet this treasure is especially threatened by excessive deforestation, from which some profit," Pope Francis told authorities and diplomats on Saturday." he deterioration of that biodiversity compromises the future of the country and of the earth, our common home," he warned. The pope went on to enumerate his vision of the problem, while also recognizing that many poor people derive their livelihood from activities that threaten the environment." s you know, the last forests are menaced by forest fires, poaching, the unrestricted cutting down of valuable woodlands," he said. "Plant and animal biodiversity is endangered by contraband and illegal exportation." It is also true, however, that, for the peoples concerned, a number of activities harmful to the environment at present ensure their survival. So it is important to create jobs and activities that generate income, while protecting the environment and helping people to emerge from poverty," he declared. The pontiff tied together social and ecological problems, insisting that the two are intimately intertwined." e are faced not with two separate crises, one environmental and the other social, but rather with one complex crisis which is both social and environmental," he said." n a word, there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earth's goods, not only of present generations, but also of those yet to come," he said. Pope Francis has made the care of the environment a central theme of his six-year pontificate, returning again and again to issues of ecological responsibility, the dangers of carbon emissions, and the scourge of climate change. In 2015, he became the first pope in history to devote an entire encyclical letter to the topic of the environment with the publication of Laudato Si ("Praised Be"), urging Christians to become more ecologically aware. In that text, the pontiff said that the earth "is beginning to look more and more like an immense pile of filth" as "once beautiful landscapes are now covered with rubbish." He also denounced a failure to recycle paper and other resources, while calling climate change "a global problem with grave implications" and "one of the principal challenges facing humanity in our day." Citing "scientific studies," the pontiff said that "most global warming in recent decades is due to the great concentration of greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide, methane, nitrogen oxides and others) released mainly as a result of human activity."	True
51	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-09-19	According to The Salt Lake Tribune, Ehrlich, warning of a "disastrous" famine," urged placing "sterilizing agents into staple foods and drinking water."	Some of the more dire predictions came from Paul Ehrlich, a biologist who famously urged population control to mitigate the impacts of humans on the environment.	officials."	The dire predictions, often repeated in the media, warned of a variety of impending disasters – famine, drought, an ice age, and even disappearing nations – if the world failed to act on climate change.	But short-term predictions weren't a laughing matter in the years following "An Inconvenient Truth," a documentary produced by former Vice President Al Gore.		Doomsdays that didn't happen: Decades of dire predictions... Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez recently suggested Miami would disappear in "a few years" due to climate change. The United Nations is convening a "Climate Action Summit" next week. And climate activist Greta Thunberg is on Capitol Hill this week telling lawmakers they must act soon. But while data from NASA and other top research agencies confirms global temperatures are indeed rising, a newly compiled retrospective indicates the doomsday rhetoric is perhaps more overheated. NYC SAYS 1.1M STUDENTS CAN ATTEND CLIMATE STRIKE PROTEST WITHOUT PUNISHMENTThe conservative-leaning Competitive Enterprise Institute has put together a lengthy compilation of apocalyptic predictions dating back decades that did not come to pass, timed as Democratic presidential candidates and climate activists refocus attention on the issue. The dire predictions, often repeated in the media, warned of a variety of impending disasters – famine, drought, an ice age, and even disappearing nations – if the world failed to act on climate change. An Associated Press headline from 1989 read "Rising seas could obliterate nations: U.N. officials." The article detailed a U.N. environmental official warning that entire nations would be eliminated if the world failed to reverse warming by 2000. Then there were the fears that the world would experience a never-ending "cooling trend in the Northern Hemisphere." That claim came from an "international team of specialists" cited by The New York Times in 1978. Just years prior, Time magazine echoed other media outlets in suggesting that "another ice age" was imminent. "Telltale signs are everywhere — from the unexpected persistence and thickness of pack ice in the waters around Iceland to the southward migration of a warmth-loving creature like the armadillo from the Midwest," the magazine warned in 1974. The Guardian similarly warned in 1974 that "Space satellites show new Ice Age coming fast." In 1970, The Boston Globe ran the headline, "Scientist predicts a new ice age by 21st century." The Washington Post, for its part, published a Columbia University scientist's claim that the world could be "as little as 50 or 60 years away from a disastrous new ice age." Some of the more dire predictions came from Paul Ehrlich, a biologist who famously urged population control to mitigate the impacts of humans on the environment. Ehrlich, in 1969, warned that "everybody" would "disappear in a cloud of blue steam in 20 years," The New York Times reported. According to The Salt Lake Tribune, Ehrlich, warning of a "disastrous" famine," urged placing "sterilizing agents into staple foods and drinking water." ANDY PUZDER: HERE'S WHY DEMS WANT TO GENERATE CLIMATE PANIC (AS THEY IGNORE WAYS TO REDUCE CARBON EMISSIONS)Those predictions were made around the time former President Richard Nixon created the Environmental Protection Agency. Since then, the U.S. has adopted a series of environmental reforms aimed at limiting emissions. Years after those initial predictions, media outlets and politicians continue to teem with claims of apocalyptic scenarios resulting from climate change. Earlier this month, leading Democratic presidential candidates held a town hall on the issue and warned about the "existential" threat posed by a changing climate. Before the end of the month, 2020 candidates are expected to have another climate forum at Georgetown University. CEI's report came just before the U.N. Climate Action Summit on Sept. 23, an event that promises to "spark the transformation that is urgently needed and propel action that will benefit everyone." It also came a week after Rep. Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., warned that Miami would be gone in a "few years" because of climate change. She was responding to critics of her ambitious "Green New Deal," which seeks to reach net-zero emissions within just decades. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPOcasio-Cortez, whose plan has been endorsed by leading presidential candidates, previously joked that the world would end in 12 years if it didn't address climate change. But short-term predictions weren't a laughing matter in the years following "An Inconvenient Truth," a documentary produced by former Vice President Al Gore. In 2008, ABC released an ominous video about what the world would look like in 2015. As the video warned about rising sea levels, a graphic showed significant portions of New York City engulfed by water. Gore himself famously predicted in the early 2000s that Arctic ice could be gone within seven years. At the end of seven years, Arctic ice had undergone a period of expansion, though recently it has been melting at a quicker pace.	False
178	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-09-03	The duke said that what is important is "what we do to balance out" negative effects.	During his opening speech, the duke said "no one is perfect" in terms of his impact on the environment.	Occasionally there needs to be an opportunity based on a unique circumstance to ensure that my family are safe - it's generally as simple as that."	At the launch of Travalyst, aimed at encouraging the tourism industry to become more sustainable, the duke was asked about his travel behaviour.	In my mind it's the right thing to do and we need to make it cool," he said."		Prince Harry defends use of private jets: 'It's to keep my family safe' The Duke of Sussex has defended his use of private jets, saying he occasionally needs to ensure his family is safe. Speaking at the launch of an eco-tourism project in Amsterdam, Prince Harry added that he balances out the impact this has on the environment. The duke and his wife Meghan have faced criticism after newspapers claimed they flew privately four times in 11 days this summer. Prince Harry said he flew to the event on Tuesday commercially. At the launch of Travalyst, aimed at encouraging the tourism industry to become more sustainable, the duke was asked about his travel behaviour."I came here by commercial. I spend 99% of my life travelling the world by commercial," he said." Occasionally there needs to be an opportunity based on a unique circumstance to ensure that my family are safe - it's generally as simple as that." During his opening speech, the duke said "no one is perfect" in terms of his impact on the environment. Questions have been asked about the royal couple's use of private jets and their impact following their support of environmental causes. Prince Harry has previously spoken about the importance of tackling climate change. In September's edition of Vogue - edited by Meghan - the prince spoke about environmental issues and his love for nature, saying: "We are the one species on this planet that seems to think that this place belongs to us, and only us." The Sussexes came under fire over the summer after taking a private flight to the home of singer Sir Elton John, in Nice. Sir Elton defended the royal couple, saying he provided them with his private plane to "maintain a high level of much-needed protection". He also said he paid to carbon offset their trip to his French home. Carbon offsetting allows passengers to pay extra to help compensate for the carbon emissions produced from their flights. The money is then invested in environmental projects - such as planting trees or installing solar panels - which reduce carbon dioxide in the air by the same amount. The duke said that what is important is "what we do to balance out" negative effects. He went on to say that he has always offset his carbon emissions and will continue to do so." In my mind it's the right thing to do and we need to make it cool," he said." We have to connect people to where that little bit of extra money is actually going." Prince Harry has spent three years working on the project alongside five co-founders - Booking. com, Ctrip, Skyscanner, TripAdvisor and Visa. He hopes it will improve conservation, environmental protection and help increase the economic benefits of tourism for local communities. Figures from accounts published in June show the royal household's carbon emissions due to business travel almost doubled last year. The increase was put down to the use of chartered flights for more overseas visits, which are planned by the Foreign Office. However, emissions savings from greener heating and lighting meant the household's overall carbon footprint stayed around the same as the previous year.	False
878	RT	questionable_source	2017-07-14	The area is "remote and foreboding," the complaint said.	The lawsuit also argued that Trump's reversal of the ban exceeded his constitutional authority and was thus unlawful.	Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oil's exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012, which led to a series of problems, mistakes and violations of environmental laws.	ome of these animals also support thriving indigenous Alaska Native cultural and subsistence activities," stated the complaint.	Its drilling contractor pleaded guilty to eight felony offenses relating to environmental pollution and safety and agreed to pay $12.2 million in fines.		US approves Alaska offshore oil & gas drilling, enraging environmental groups The US arm of a European multinational oil and gas company has been approved to begin exploratory drilling in Alaska's Beaufort Sea. Environmentalists argue the Trump administration doesn't have the authority for such a move and it would endanger land and marine life. The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) gave conditional approval late Wednesday to Eni US, the US subsidiary of the Italian company Eni S.p.A., to drill four exploration wells from Spy Island, an artificial island created in the Beaufort Sea in Alaska. Drilling can only be conducted in the winter months, and is scheduled to begin in December 2017 and end in May 2019, BOEM said. The permit is for preparatory work, and does not authorize Eni to produce oil." ver the past 30 days BOEM has been carefully evaluating the EP (exploration plan) in accordance with federal law and regulations…[including] site-specific Environmental Assessment…[and] conclude with a Finding of No Significant Impact," BEOM said in a statement. The Obama administration banned oil and gas exploration in most of the US's Arctic Ocean and Atlantic Ocean waters last year, but President Donald Trump ordered Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke in April to review the ban with the goal of opening up offshore areas for oil and gas drilling. Eni's lease was due to expire at the end of 2017, according to Kristen Monsell, an attorney for the Center for Biological Diversity. The Trump administration provided the public only 21 days to review and comment on the exploration plan and only 10 days to comment on scoping for environmental assessment, according to Monsell." pproving this Arctic drilling plan at the 11th hour makes a dangerous project even riskier," Monsell told the Guardian. "An oil spill here would do incredible damage, and it'd be impossible to clean up." The Center for Biological Diversity, Greenpeace and REDOIL, a coalition of Alaska native groups, sued the Trump administration on May 3, citing the risk of offshore oil and gas exploration development to local communities and wildlife. The lawsuit also argued that Trump's reversal of the ban exceeded his constitutional authority and was thus unlawful. In the lawsuit, the groups argued the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas are still undeveloped and are home to a rich array of unique wildlife species including polar bears, walruses, whales, seals, other mammals, birds and fish, some of which are classified as threatened or endangered." ome of these animals also support thriving indigenous Alaska Native cultural and subsistence activities," stated the complaint. "Several Arctic mammals, including polar bears and bearded seals, have been listed under the ESA (Endangered Species Act)." The region serves as important nurseries, feeding grounds and transit routes for marine animals. Seismic surveys and drilling activities could cause disruption and threaten wildlife directly. The area is "remote and foreboding," the complaint said. In winter, the seas are covered in ice and shrouded in darkness, it is prone to storms and fog, and there is little infrastructure to support industrial activity, with just small communities, and few jet runways. The region is hundreds of miles from the nearest Coast Guard station. Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oil's exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012, which led to a series of problems, mistakes and violations of environmental laws. During testing in the placid waters of Puget Sound, Shell destroyed its oil spill containment drone. On the way north, its drillship, the Noble Discoverer, dragged its anchor and nearly ran aground while moored near an Alaskan island. Once at the drill site in the Chukchi Sea, Shell had to undertake an emergency maneuver to relocate the drillship to avoid a large ice floe. On its way back from the Beaufort Sea, it lost control of its drilling vessel, the Kulluk, which ran aground in the Gulf of Alaska in severe weather and had to be towed to Seattle, Washington and then scrapped. The US Coast Guard cited the Noble Discoverer for numerous deficiencies after the drilling season, and the EPA determined Shell had violated the Clean Air Act during its drilling efforts and fined the company $1.1 million. Its drilling contractor pleaded guilty to eight felony offenses relating to environmental pollution and safety and agreed to pay $12.2 million in fines.	False
449	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-12-13	wouldn't even call it compromises.	"Young people and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma."	In August the Democratic National Committee, under pressure from unions, backtracked on a two-month-old resolution to ban donations from oil, gas and coal companies.	The resolution calls for barring lawmakers who have accepted donations from the fossil fuel industry from serving on the select committee.	The resolution faced skepticism from the top Democrats on natural resources and energy committees that wield legislative power over the issues a Green New Deal would cover.		Green New Deal Gains Key Support At Home As Trump Undercuts UN Climate Talks Abroad Nearly four years later, the White House is promoting the same brand of denialism and fealty to the fossil fuel industry at the United Nations' climate conference in Poland. But in Washington the snowball metaphor might more accurately describe how a markedly different brand of climate politics is gaining support. By Wednesday, the burgeoning effort to establish a select committee in the House of Representatives on a Green New Deal ― essentially a plan to make a plan ― picked up its strongest endorsements yet, netting support from the co-chairs of the 78-member Congressional Progressive Caucus and from the first labor union to back the proposal. At least 35 incoming or sitting House members support the resolution, as do four senators. The proposal, championed by Rep.-elect Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), came as grassroots groups like the Sunrise Movement and Justice Democrats organized protests at the Capitol, with young activists occupying Democratic leaders' offices and urging lawmakers to pledge their support. Nearly 150 people were arrested Monday in the groups' largest demonstration yet. The resolution faced skepticism from the top Democrats on natural resources and energy committees that wield legislative power over the issues a Green New Deal would cover. But proponents tweaked language in the proposal this week to mandate the select committee to lay out a vision for a Green New Deal while maintaining existing committees' authority over the lawmaking process."  wouldn't even call it compromises. It was more specificities," Pocan said. "It was really getting at making it specific and workable. We wanted to make it so it could be an executable idea." The resolution calls for barring lawmakers who have accepted donations from the fossil fuel industry from serving on the select committee. Maintaining legislative power for existing committees with members who might have taken contributions from oil, gas and coal donors could pose some risk but would be worth it, said Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-Wash.), the other Progressive Caucus co-chair." he harm that's done in taking legislative authority away from the committees is far too great," she said. "Everyone is ready. There are a lot of champions in the rooms that we need them to be in who will be controlling the agenda." The unusually speedy sausagemaking process inverts decades of Democrats' dithering on the rapidly worsening crisis caused by greenhouse gas pollution. That mirrors the Trump administration's aggressive efforts to unwind the few, relatively weak climate regulations that exist and to upend fragile negotiations at the 24th Conference of the Parties in Katowice, Poland, where diplomats this week are struggling to garner support for basic resolutions recognizing the scientific consensus on global warming. The summit follows an October report from the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that found that world governments must halve emissions over the next 12 years to avert warming of 2.3 degrees Fahrenheit above preindustrial levels, beyond which climate change is forecast to be cataclysmic. The Trump administration announced plans to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris Climate Accord, but that won't legally go into effect until 2020. In the meantime, the administration has worked hard to further undercut the talks. The United States teamed up with Russia, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to weaken a resolution to endorse the report — something the State Department outright refused to do." he Democratic Party needs an answer for what their plan is to match the U.N.'s recommendations in the IPCC report on climate," said Waleed Shahid, the communications director for Justice Democrats, a left-wing group that played a leading role in Ocasio-Cortez's winning primary campaign. "Young people and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma." That's not the only issue for which the Green New Deal would provide a fix. The Democratic Party has long been dogged by tensions between environmentalists clamoring for action on climate change and labor leaders warning against policies that ostracize the fossil fuel industry, which provides high-paid construction jobs. In August the Democratic National Committee, under pressure from unions, backtracked on a two-month-old resolution to ban donations from oil, gas and coal companies.	False
193	cbsnews	left_center_bias	2019-02-07	"It will make clear who is just using it as a buzzword and who is taking it seriously."	Bolt says the environment ranks among the top three issues for its members.	"Small, incremental policy solutions are not enough."	"The Green New Deal will put the health and well-being of our communities first," Grijalva said.	In a statement to CBS News on Tuesday, Congressman Raúl Grijalva, Democrat of Arizona, confirmed that he will be supporting the resolution, after initially being reluctant to back it.		Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez introduces 2020 policy test with Green New Deal Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez isn't old enough to run for president. But the freshman congresswoman from New York introduced a Green New Deal resolution on Thursday that is already emerging as a key policy test for 2020 Democratic candidates." Our first step is to define the problem and define the scope of the solution," Ocasio-Cortez told reporters during a Thursday afternoon press conference for her newly-introduced proposal, which was quickly backed by Democratic presidential hopefuls Senators Kirsten Gillibrand, Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker. "Small, incremental policy solutions are not enough." Several contenders vying for the Democatic nomination have expressed support for the underlying principles of the sweeping resolution to combat climate change, and activist groups energized by the November midterm election wins have been pressuring candidates to sign on as co-sponsors." We are going to be pressuring all the 2020 contenders, especially the senators, to co-sponsor the bill," Stephen O'Hanlon, a spokesperson for the Sunrise Movement, a climate change group that staged a high-profile sit-in in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office in November which Ocasio-Cortez attended, told CBS News. "It will make clear who is just using it as a buzzword and who is taking it seriously." Progressive activists are "extremely supportive of the Green New Deal and think of it as the gold standard plan on climate, and expect their presidential candidates to be treating it as such," said Chad Bolt, associate policy director of Indivisible, a grassroots resistance group. Bolt says the environment ranks among the top three issues for its members. The resolution introduced by Ocasio-Cortez and Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey, a Democrat, is broad and light on specifics, and seen more as a roadmap for overhauling the economy than a concrete piece of legislation. The resolution includes plans to decarbonize the economy, reduce greenhouse gases, make sure low-income and minority communities benefit, create a federal jobs guarantee, provide universal health care and make investments in infrastructure. The Green New Deal proposal is named after President Franklin Roosevelt's sweeping "New Deal" economic and labor reforms during the Great Depression. It's aimed a transforming the American economy by ending its dependence on fossil fuels, investing heavily in renewable energy like solar and wind and sparking large-scale job-creation. Some proposals have set the goal to converting the entire U.S. economy to renewable energy within 12 years and eliminating the carbon footprint by 2030. The lack of specifics could present opportunities and liabilities for presidential candidates. On one hand, it becomes a kind of "catch-all" way to talk about the environment, jobs and economic fairness, issues at the forefront of the party's primary. But on the other, it could put candidates in a difficult position when pressed on the costs and impact on certain jobs and industries. The debate over Medicare-for-All has already shown the kinds of risks and rewards candidates face. Republicans have branded the proposal as a costly fringe policy goal, and many centrist Democrats have not backed the initiative. Pelosi referred to it Thursday morning as a "suggestion" and the "green dream." It will be one of several or maybe many suggestions that we receive," Pelosi told Politico in an interview. "The green dream or whatever they call it, nobody knows what it is, but they're for it right?"Later in the morning, Pelosi said she had not seen the proposal. "I do know its enthusiastic and I welcome all the enthusiasm that is out there," she told reporters during her weekly press conference. Pelosi also named the nine Democratic members of the new Select Committee on the Climate Crisis — and notably left Ocasio-Cortez off the list. The New York Democrat said Pelosi offered her a spot, but she declined it because she wanted to focus on the "legislative" side of climate policy. Despite some hesitation within the party, the Democratic base sees the proposal as a way for its leaders to capitalize on their new power in Washington. In a statement to CBS News on Tuesday, Congressman Raúl Grijalva, Democrat of Arizona, confirmed that he will be supporting the resolution, after initially being reluctant to back it. "The Green New Deal will put the health and well-being of our communities first," Grijalva said. Its aspirational goals will help our country combat climate change through clean and renewable energy, create millions of new jobs in the process, and safeguard our environment for generations to come." Most of the Democratic presidential candidates have also broadly endorsed the idea behind the Green New Deal. Oregon Democratic Sen. Jeff Merkley, who's mulling a presidential bid, said the issue should be an integral part of his party's agenda going forward. On CBSN's "Red and Blue," Merkley outlined what he believes should be the key components of a comprehensive Green New Deal." The core objectives are some things such as let's drive a fast transition from fossil fuel, carbon transmission creating energy sources to renewable energy so that we save our planet. Second principle is, let's create tens of millions of jobs as we renovate our energy economy," he said Tuesday.  "A third principle — a just transition for fossil fuel workers so that no one is left behind and so we show respect and gratitude for all the work they've done to power economy is the decades past."	False
216	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-07-20	And when it gets hotter, our thermostats turn lower and the cycle continues.	The temperatures reached a high of 185F (85C) - not quite enough for a proper bake, but certainly too hot for humans or animals to survive in.	In cities, that means millions of units - including those on cars and buses and trains - constantly pushing out heat into the atmosphere.	Extreme heat makes pollution worse, which can be dangerous for the very young, the elderly and anyone with respiratory diseases.	According to the National Weather Service, 21 young children have died in hot cars this year.		Some unexpected consequences of extreme heat This weekend, close to 200 million Americans will face temperatures of 90F (32C) and higher. Add in humidity, and many cities across the East Coast and Midwest will be feeling more like 110F (43C). Heat waves have killed more people on average than any other extreme weather event in the US, according to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). Officials define extreme heat as a period of two to three days of high heat and humidity with temperatures above 90F (32C). On the heels of earth's hottest June on record, the US National Weather Service (NWS) estimates over 100 record-high minimum temperatures could be set as the heat lingers even past sunset. Here's what that sort of heat can do. Air-conditioning is used in 87% of US homes, according to a 2018 report by the US Energy Information Administration (EIA). During heat waves, air conditioning use stresses power grids and can lead to city-wide outages. In cities, that means millions of units - including those on cars and buses and trains - constantly pushing out heat into the atmosphere. Studies have found the extra heat from air-conditioning can raise temperatures by as much as 2C. And when it gets hotter, our thermostats turn lower and the cycle continues. But it goes further than just an ever-hotter summer season - the emissions from air conditioners and their refrigerants is contributing to climate change. The man-made greenhouse gases used in air conditoners, called hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), are thousands of times more potent than carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. In cities, the cycle is also exacerbated by all the concrete, asphalt, steel and glass, creating an urban heat island. When temperatures get too high, planes get grounded. Extreme heat reduces air density and the amount of lift a plane can get to take-off. Temperatures of 120F (49C) saw dozens of flights cancelled in Phoenix during a 2017 heatwave. Smaller planes are affected first, but larger Boeing or Airbus jets have maximum operating temperatures around 126F (52C), AZ Central reported. In a heat wave, concrete and asphalt don't fare well. Asphalt warps and melts. Concrete, if water is involved, can sometimes explode or break open. This week, local media in Kansas has reported several instances of cracked and buckled roads as temperatures rise. In Iowa, one city mayor said old concrete roads soaked with floodwaters from this spring are now exploding and damaging sewer lines. The NWS outpost in Omaha, Nebraska, demonstrated just how hot vehicles can get in heat waves by cooking American biscuits on a dash. The temperatures reached a high of 185F (85C) - not quite enough for a proper bake, but certainly too hot for humans or animals to survive in. According to the National Weather Service, 21 young children have died in hot cars this year. Unsurprisingly, as everything warms up in a heat wave, anything metal gets even hotter. When it comes to power lines, this can cause dangerously low sagging. If lines droop low enough to touch the ground or trees, they can short out. Kinks can form on train rails when the metal expands. In 2012, a "heat kink" caused a 32-car-long freight train to derail and fly off an overpass; a similar derailment happened in 2017. Experts told Fox 26 News more than 2,100 trains have been derailed in the last 40 years because of these heat warps. Metal components in draw-bridges can expand and become inoperable - last year, Chicago firefighters had to hose down a downtown draw-bridge so it could be used. Crops can also feel the heat. Farmers across the Midwest are warning that vegetables can wilt in the heat and farms will lose productivity - worsening the situation after a historic flooding season this spring. Soybean farmers also say the dry conditions could cause an increase in spider mites and other plant diseases. Extreme heat makes pollution worse, which can be dangerous for the very young, the elderly and anyone with respiratory diseases. In the nation's capital, where the mayor has declared a heat emergency, officials warned that air quality would reach unhealthy levels for these sensitive groups over the weekend.	False
119	cnn	left_bias	2019-09-04	Jerry Brown.	CNN gathered input from advocacy groups, former government officials and academics.	This is a worldwide issue, and solving it will take cooperation from countries like China and India.	A new administration could move in the opposite direction.13.	ET.		15 things a president can actually do to tackle the climate crisis Watch CNN's live town hall on the climate crisis featuring 10 Democratic presidential candidates tonight beginning at 5 p.m. ET.(CNN) Candidates for the Democratic presidential nomination and most scientists say the climate crisis is the existential threat of our time, while President Donald Trump once claimed it's a hoax cooked up by the Chinese. Trump also said at last month's G7 meeting that "I'm an environmentalist," citing his experience filing environmental impact statements as a businessperson, though he skipped an actual session about climate change that his fellow world leaders attended. That pretty much sums up the difference between how a Democrat would treat climate change compared with Trump: as an emergency as opposed to as a joke. That, in itself, would be an enormous switch. This is a worldwide issue, and solving it will take cooperation from countries like China and India. In addition, the most important actions the US could take would require congressional approval, no easy task when the Senate floor is controlled by a Republican who represents coal country. But presidents actually have quite a bit of power to change US climate policy on their own, without waiting for Congress.A first set of steps would be to roll back numerous Trump actions that either sidelined US leadership on the climate or rescinded new standards that had been implemented during the Obama administration. CNN gathered input from advocacy groups, former government officials and academics. Here are some things any president could do on Day One in office:climate agreement was Promising to withdraw the US from the landmark 2015climate agreement was Trump's benchmark action rebutting the responsibility to act on climate change . He said, without much evidence, that it was a demeaning failure for American workers, who would be expected to do more than those in other countries. The result is the US is one of just a few countries not taking part in the effort, in which nations committed to varying amounts of carbon reduction. Every candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination has said they would bring the US back in. The US was supposed to reduce carbon emissions by 26% from 2005 levels by 2025 under the agreement. It probably won't get there with the willful sabotage of the Trump administration. But with certain states, cities and companies trying to fill the void, the US could get most of the way there, according to groups like America's Pledge, the coalition pushed by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and former California Gov. Jerry Brown. Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont was the first presidential candidate to argue that Trump, instead of declaring a national emergency at the border, should do it on the climate instead. Others, like Tom Steyer, have followed suit. This would certainly focus national attention and could free up some funds without congressional approval. The President could easily declare a goal of 100% decarbonization by a given year -- say, 2050 -- and direct his or her Cabinet secretaries to do everything in their power to meet it. At the request of automakers, the Trump administration worked to roll back fuel economy standards for cars and trucks. A different President could push things again in the other direction.5. Set a zero-emission deadline for the USThe Clean Power Plan was an Obama-era regulatory scheme that required states to meet specific carbon emission-reduction standards based on their individual energy consumption. The plan includes an incentive program for states to get a head start on meeting standards on early deployment of renewable energy and low-income energy efficiency.8. Reverse Trump's plan to speed up oil and gas pipelinesWorkers in the Bureau of Land Management worked through the partial government shutdown early this year to approve more and more applications for oil and natural gas drilling on public lands. A new administration could move in the opposite direction.13. Use the SEC to scrutinize banks and investors for climate risksMost attention for climate change goes to the energy sector, but banks and investors have an important role too. The Securities and Exchange Commission asks companies what risks climate change and new climate change regulations pose to their investments.14. Tap into growing public sentiment and work with corporationsStates and cities are addressing climate change, be it with zero-emission-vehicle goals or the regional cooperative of states in the Northeast that is trying to cap and reduce carbon emissions on its own. Corporate America is also moving on its own. It's setting up coalitions of companies and lobbying Congress for new action on climate change. As it stands right now, the federal government is not even a part of that conversation. Pretty much everyone who agrees that climate change is a problem agrees that Congress will ultimately have to address it in a big way. That means placing some kind of price on carbon. The House voted to do this in 2010, but the so-called cap-and-trade proposal didn't get a vote in the Senate and then Democrats lost control of the House for eight years.	False
111	vox	left_bias	2019-08-22	It's a paradigmatic example of the limits of nationalism and the need for organizations like the UN and EU.	Poorer countries are less likely to act when they think they're unfairly bearing the burden of a problem kickstarted by Western industrial development.	You can't propose an effective solution to a transnational problem through a narrowly nationalist framework, and yet the nationalists are here attacking both climate policies in their own country and the very idea of global governance itself.	But the stakes are even bigger than they appear at first glance: It's not just the survival of Western democracy that's at stake, but the planet itself.	Right-wing populism today centers on a particular kind of chauvinistic nationalism — an "America First" style obsession with the importance of their (typically ethnically defined) home nation and its independence from international institutions.		The right-wing populist wave is a threat to the climate The Amazon rainforest is on fire — and the consensus is that Brazil's far-right populist leader, Jair Bolsonaro, is to blame. Bolsonaro, who took office in January and has been referred to as "Captain Chainsaw," gutted funding for agencies protecting the massive rainforest, essentially giving wink-and-nudge approval for illegal loggers to do their thing. Fire is used as a tool for clearing Amazon land for ranching, and the more trees are cut down, the more vulnerable the rainforest is to wildfires. There have been almost twice as many fires detected in 2019 so far as there were in the entirety of 2018. It's hard to overstate how threatening this policy is to the climate. The Amazon is the world's largest rainforest: its trees scrub the Earth of a significant amount of CO2 and have captured a huge amount of carbon and methane within their branches and roots. If you lose the trees, a lot of greenhouse gases get released and it becomes harder to capture emissions from other sources. Continued fires and clear-cutting in the Amazon could cripple the fight against climate change. All of this goes to underscore an important and poorly understood point: The wave of right-wing populism sweeping the world is not only dangerous for the countries who succumb to it, or even to immigrants wishing to move to those nations. It's a fundamental threat to progress against climate change — and thus the entirety of the human race. Bolsonaro has been dubbed the "Trump of the Tropics," a far-right firebrand who shares the American president's hostility to democracy and penchant for saying extremely offensive things about women and minorities. The similarities clearly extend to climate policy — Trump famously labeled climate change a Chinese hoax, pulled out of the Paris agreement on climate change, and recently presented a "carbon regulation" plan that could actually increase emissions. The American and Brazilian leaders are particularly aggressive on the issue, but they're hardly alone among Western right-wingers. A February report from the German Adelphi Institute, an environmental think tank, found that 18 out of the 21 largest European far-right parties are either generally indifferent to climate action or outright oppose it. Nigel Farage, the leader of Britain's Brexit party, recently called climate change a "scam" during an interview with conspiracy theorist Alex Jones. Germany's Alternatives for Deutschland (AfD) claims in its most recent electoral platform that "CO2 is not a pollutant, but an indispensable component of all life." By contrast, the centrist and left parties in these countries were, prior to the populist wave of the past few years, doing a markedly better job on addressing climate change — not perfect or sufficient, mind you, but comparatively much better than what the far-right parties want. Between 2003-2011, a left-wing Brazilian government managed to cut Amazon deforestation rates by 80 percent. Obama massively boosted the American renewables industry via the 2009 stimulus, helped negotiate the Paris Climate Accord, and implemented the Clean Power Plan to cut emissions from US power plants. In 2005, the EU put in place the world's first major emissions permit and trading system (the European Union Emissions Trading System, or EU ETS). So there's a clear contrast between the right-wing populists on the one hand and their leading opponents on the other. Right-wing populism today centers on a particular kind of chauvinistic nationalism — an "America First" style obsession with the importance of their (typically ethnically defined) home nation and its independence from international institutions. European populists hate the European Union, with its open-borders approach to immigration and transnational economic regulations; both Trump and Bolsonaro have insulted international institutions and withdrawn from global agreements. This brand of populism poses a particular challenge for the effort against climate change. It's a global issue that no one country can solve on its own; it requires collective action, negotiated through some forum like the Paris Climate Agreement. It's a paradigmatic example of the limits of nationalism and the need for organizations like the UN and EU. You can't propose an effective solution to a transnational problem through a narrowly nationalist framework, and yet the nationalists are here attacking both climate policies in their own country and the very idea of global governance itself. This is a crucial time; a recent UN report claims we have 11 years to prevent "irreversible damage" from climate change. Large population centers like the United States, Brazil, and the EU as a bloc are responsible for a major chunk of emissions. It's especially important that wealthy countries take the lead on the issue. Poorer countries are less likely to act when they think they're unfairly bearing the burden of a problem kickstarted by Western industrial development. Backsliding in the US and Europe hurts climate action everywhere. Right-wing populists are often framed as a threat to Western democracy — and they certainly are that. But the stakes are even bigger than they appear at first glance: It's not just the survival of Western democracy that's at stake, but the planet itself.	True
718	MotherJones	left_bias	2017-05-15	One, published by Newsweek, is a favorite of climate deniers.	The other, from 2007, discussed how to survive global warming.	Perhaps not surprisingly, his staff seems to share these views.	McFarland recently tried to get Trump riled up about climate change with a bit of fake news.	But this hasn't stopped climate deniers from citing the old stories as evidence that contemporary news reports about climate change shouldn't be believed.		Here's a Crazy Story About Donald Trump Falling for an Internet Hoax President Donald Trump has been a climate change denier for years, alleging that global warming is a Chinese invention and declaring that cold winter days prove that it's a hoax. Perhaps not surprisingly, his staff seems to share these views. According to Politico, Deputy National Security Advisor K.T. McFarland recently tried to get Trump riled up about climate change with a bit of fake news. McFarland reportedly slipped Trump two Time magazine cover stories. One was supposedly from the 1970s and warned about a coming ice age. The other, from 2007, discussed how to survive global warming. But there was one glaring problem: The 1970s cover was a hoax. In 2007, Time published a cover story titled, "The Global Warming Survival Guide." Sometime after that, internet hoaxers doctored the cover to instead say "How to Survive the Coming Ice Age" and alleged that it was a 1977 cover. The hoax spread quickly, and climate deniers used it to argue that in the 1970s, scientists were actually worried about global cooling—and since it didn't happen then, the public shouldn't believe warnings about global warming now. The hoax seems to have had its intended effect on Trump, who, according to Politico, "quickly got lathered up about the media's hypocrisy." A White House official defended McFarland in an interview with Politico, calling the Time hoax "fake but accurate." The White House didn't respond to a request for comment from Mother Jones. While the Time global cooling cover story never existed, it's certainly true that some media outlets, including Time, ran stories in the 70s warning about global cooling. One, published by Newsweek, is a favorite of climate deniers. Scientific American explained Newsweek's global cooling story in 2014:But global cooling was never a popular theory among scientists. Even as some news outlets were writing about it, notes Scientific American, a counter theory about a warming planet was already on the rise. In fact, a survey of peer-reviewed scientific papers from 1969 to 1975 shows that the majority of scientists predicted that carbon dioxide levels would rise, causing temperatures to rise as well. Scientists have since reached an overwhelming consensus: The planet is getting warmer, and humans are to blame. But this hasn't stopped climate deniers from citing the old stories as evidence that contemporary news reports about climate change shouldn't be believed. This climate denier, for example:	False
720	Vox	left_bias	2017-05-31	Last summer, the Guardian investigated Trump's coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels.	The estate was at high risk for flooding during heavy rains and storms, with water already pooling on the premises in addition to nearby bridges and roads in Palm Beach.	Trump doesn't believe in climate change, but it's going to drown Mar-a-Lago President Donald Trump has called climate change a "hoax" and a very expensive "tax" on American businesses that make the US less competitive.	And perhaps even eventually render Trump's "Southern White House" uninhabitable.	So what would a 10-foot rise in sea levels mean for Florida?		Trump doesn't believe in climate change, but it's going to drown Mar-a-Lago President Donald Trump has called climate change a "hoax" and a very expensive "tax" on American businesses that make the US less competitive. He has threatened to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord, in which countries around the world pledged to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to keep temperatures from rising past the critical 2°C mark. And yet climate change is already imperiling Mar-a-Lago, the crown jewel of Trump's extensive real estate portfolio and his preferred location for carrying out many of his official presidential duties. Rising sea levels are causing more frequent and more damaging tidal floods on the Florida coast, and projections suggest that the risk to lives and property from climate change-related flooding events is only going to increase dramatically in the coming years. The National and Oceanic Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has put out a variety of different estimates of rising sea levels in Southern Florida. The more conservative finding suggests that they could jump anywhere from 3 feet by 2050 to 7 feet by 2100. But in January, the agency put out new "extreme" sea level projections — its doomsday scenario, in other words. In this scenario, we'd see a 10- to 12-foot rise in sea level in the US by 2100, which would have dramatic consequences for places like Mar-a-Lago, as you can see in the photo above. So what would a 10-foot rise in sea levels mean for Florida? Here's a satellite image of what that would look like. Large swaths of the state are submerged. Miami is entirely flooded, along with the rest of Southern Florida:There is evidence that average sea levels are already steadily rising in Southern Florida. A 2016 paper found that in the past decade, the average rate of sea-level rise had tripled from 3 millimeters a year to 9 millimeters. And overall sea levels in Southern Florida had risen about 90 millimeters, or 3.5 inches, since 2006. Of the 30 most populous US cities that would be negatively affected by extreme sea-level rise, Climate Central, a nonprofit climate science research group, found that 19 were located in Florida (circled in yellow in the chart below). Scientists don't have a great understanding of how exactly rapidly sea levels will continue to rise or the precise impact on specific areas. But new research that indicates parts of the Antarctic ice sheet may collapse in the next 100 years — and that has scientists scrambling to model more extreme scenarios. If the Antarctic ice sheet does melt, it could trigger a catastrophic 10-foot spike in sea levels and inundate major US cities like New York and Miami, displacing nearly 150 million people worldwide." t may be a lot less stable [in Antarctica] than we thought," said Ben Strauss, a vice president at Climate Central. "But the truth is we are relatively early in our scientific understanding of how the great ice sheets will respond to warming." Last summer, the Guardian investigated Trump's coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels. What they found was Mar-a-Lago was already in serious trouble. The estate was at high risk for flooding during heavy rains and storms, with water already pooling on the premises in addition to nearby bridges and roads in Palm Beach. Plus, in the next 30 years, they estimated there will be 210 days a year where Mar-a-Lago will be flooded with at least a foot of water. Keren Bolter, chief scientist for Coastal Risk Consulting and the firm that analyzed Trump's properties, told the Guardian that tidal flooding in the next 30 years could partially submerge some of the club's luxurious cottages and bungalows. And perhaps even eventually render Trump's "Southern White House" uninhabitable.	False
175	thenewyorktimes	left_center_bias	2019-09-04	An activist from the Sunrise Movement, a liberal environmental group, asked Mr. Castro why he should be trusted to move the country away from fossil fuels when he supported fracking."	He recounted discovering that 70 percent of subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site saying, "That's the environmental injustice of racism that we're dealing with."	he's right.	He said while he isn't calling for an immediate national ban on fracking, he supports local communities that do so and called for moving to cleaner sources.	Still, Mr. Castro said, "it's actually what comes next that is most important" saying he would impose a fee on carbon pollution, enact an executive order prohibiting fossil fuel exploration and development on public lands and spend $10 trillion over 10 years to reach net-zero emissions by 2045.		Julián Castro Defends Record on Fracking Julián Castro, the first 2020 Democratic presidential candidate at the CNN climate town hall, set the tone early in the night by giving a shout out to Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington, the self-professed "climate candidate" whose six-part plan has been adopted by several other candidates since he dropped out of the race last month. Calling climate change "an existential threat" — a phrase that is sure to come up several more times tonight — Mr. Castro said his first move as president would be to rejoin the Paris Climate Accord. The United States hasn't actually withdrawn from the global climate change agreement and legally cannot until November 2020, but President Trump has vowed to do so. Still, Mr. Castro said, "it's actually what comes next that is most important" saying he would impose a fee on carbon pollution, enact an executive order prohibiting fossil fuel exploration and development on public lands and spend $10 trillion over 10 years to reach net-zero emissions by 2045. The former secretary for Housing and Urban Development and mayor of San Antonio drew on his experience working with families who had lost their homes to flooding and called for subsidizing the National Flood Insurance Program. An activist from the Sunrise Movement, a liberal environmental group, asked Mr. Castro why he should be trusted to move the country away from fossil fuels when he supported fracking." he's right. When I was mayor of San Antonio, I did believe that there were opportunities to be had with fracking that was going on in South Texas." But, he said, at the time natural gas was described as a "bridge fuel" to help wean the country off coal and toward cleaner fuels." e're coming to the end of the bridge," Mr. Castro said. He said while he isn't calling for an immediate national ban on fracking, he supports local communities that do so and called for moving to cleaner sources. Mr. Castro won some of his strongest applause when he leaned into his résumé as the nation's housing chief and connected his work with the need to protect low-income communities from environmental damages. He recounted discovering that 70 percent of subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site saying, "That's the environmental injustice of racism that we're dealing with."	False
769	Yahoo News	left_center_bias	2017-05-31	"Mr. Trump believes that because he doesn't get close enough to the dossiers to fully understand them."	He said that "the law is the law" and it must be obeyed regardless of what Trump thinks, adding somewhat sardonically that not everything in international agreements is fake news.	Amid talk of combating terrorism and the global economy, they also discussed international efforts to fight climate change.	"Both of them would be viewed very negatively by other countries — by allies in Europe and elsewhere — but pulling out of the Framework Convention would be an even more drastic step."	hat's not how it works.		European Commission head says Trump doesn't understand how Paris Agreement works European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said President Trump doesn't seem to understand that he can't immediately yank the United States out of the Paris Agreement on climate change." hat's not how it works. The Americans can't just leave the climate protection agreement," Juncker said Wednesday, according to a translation from NBC News. "Mr. Trump believes that because he doesn't get close enough to the dossiers to fully understand them." Reports circulated Wednesday that Trump had decided to withdraw from the international pact — which has been signed by every country in the world except Nicaragua and Syria — but as of late afternoon there was no formal announcement. Juncker, the former prime minister of Luxembourg, has been leading the European Commission, the civil service of the European Union's executive branch in Brussels, since November 2014. During a student conference on Europe's future, he explained that the United States would have to wait three to four years after the agreement took effect in November 2016 before leaving. Juncker and European Council President Donald Tusk represented the European Union at last week's Group of Seven (G7) summit in Taormina, a small town in Sicily. They met with leaders from the seven democracies with the world's most developed economies: Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States. Amid talk of combating terrorism and the global economy, they also discussed international efforts to fight climate change. These conversations come at a particularly fraught time because Trump, who does not share his predecessor Barack Obama's commitment to clean energy, has been reviewing the United States' environmental policies. According to a translation from NBC News, Juncker said that they attempted to explain to Trump that he could not simply pull the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement because the treaty contains safeguards to prevent exactly that." o this notion, 'I am Trump, I am American, America first and I'm going to get out of it' — that won't happen," he continued. "We tried to explain that to Mr. Trump in Taormina in clear German sentences. It seems our attempt failed." He said that "the law is the law" and it must be obeyed regardless of what Trump thinks, adding somewhat sardonically that not everything in international agreements is fake news. On Wednesday morning, Axios published a report citing two sources with "direct knowledge of the decision" that Trump was planning to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement. Shortly after the news spread, Trump tweeted that he would be announcing his decision regarding the international agreement within the next few days. Later Wednesday, during a meeting with Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc of Vietnam at the White House, Trump dodged a question about whether he still thinks that climate change is a hoax. When asked if he was "leaning in a direction" concerning Paris, Trump simply said, "I'm hearing from a lot of people both ways." Many scientific organizations have released statements or reports affirming that anthropogenic climate change is real and that it could have devastating effects if actions are not taken to limit carbon dioxide emissions. The American Meteorological Society released a statement that read in part: "It is clear from extensive scientific evidence that the dominant cause of the rapid change in climate of the past half century is human-induced increases in the amount of atmospheric greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide (CO ), chlorofluorocarbons, methane and nitrous oxide." Dan Bodansky, a law professor at Arizona State University and a leading climate change expert, explained that Trump could get the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement two different ways: withdrawing from the Paris Agreement itself or leaving the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The text of Paris Agreement allows for countries to provide a year's notice of its intent to withdraw. But this notice cannot be submitted until three years after the agreement entered into force for that country, which happened in November 2016. "Whether the U.S. decides to pull out or not, under international law and the Paris Agreement, the withdrawal would not be effective until 2020," Bodansky told Yahoo News. Another option, which would get the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement in just one year, would be to leave UNFCCC, which was an agreement brokered under former President George H.W. Bush in the early '90s. Although this would be faster, it would carry even more serious consequences. Bodansky said that leaving the UNFCCC would automatically get the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement as well. "If we pulled out of both then we wouldn't be a party at all. We wouldn't participate in meetings and we'd just be there as an observer," he said. "Both of them would be viewed very negatively by other countries — by allies in Europe and elsewhere — but pulling out of the Framework Convention would be an even more drastic step." Trump goes after 'negative press covfefe' in botched midnight tweet Duck! Treasury will hit debt limit soon unless Congress votes to raise it	False
287	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-21	Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) reiterated that point to Greta Thunberg and the other climate kids who testified before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and Select Committee on the Climate Crisis on Wednesday."	However, there was a remarkable lack of participation from individuals in China — the planet's worst greenhouse gas emitter — minus a protest in Hong Kong.	oday the Chinese account for 30 percent of global emissions.	We also pay attention to the climate and we are also thinking deeply, interacting, taking action, and so many people are very conscientious on this issue," she added.	According to the Guardian, "No protests were authorized in China."		World's Leading Greenhouse Gas Emitter China Taps Out of Global Climate Strike Thousands gathered in cities across the globe — including London, Berlin, Tokyo, and Washington, DC — to protest anthropogenic climate change and the purported lack of urgency to address it. However, there was a remarkable lack of participation from individuals in China — the planet's worst greenhouse gas emitter — minus a protest in Hong Kong. According to the Guardian, "No protests were authorized in China." However, the China Youth Climate Action Network's Zheng Xiaowen said that Chinese youth "have their own methods." We also pay attention to the climate and we are also thinking deeply, interacting, taking action, and so many people are very conscientious on this issue," she added. Several climate change activists in D.C. decried the U.S. for its role in contributing to climate change despite the fact that the U.S. has made great strides in reducing its carbon output, seeing the "largest decline in CO2 emissions in the world for 9th time this century" in 2017. The largest increase that year came from China. According to a report released by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) last year, the U.S. reduced its greenhouse gas output by 2.7 percent during President Trump's first year in office." hanks to President Trump's regulatory reform agenda, the economy is booming, energy production is surging, and we are reducing greenhouse gas emissions from major industrial sources," EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler said at the time." hese achievements flow largely from technological breakthroughs in the private sector, not the heavy hand of government. The Trump Administration has proven that federal regulations are not necessary to drive CO2 reductions," Wheeler continued." hile many around the world are talking about reducing greenhouse gases, the U.S. continues to deliver, and today's report is further evidence of our action-oriented approach," he added. Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) reiterated that point to Greta Thunberg and the other climate kids who testified before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and Select Committee on the Climate Crisis on Wednesday." eanwhile, as the West looks at options to combat climate change, we all know that China's global emissions continue to rise. For every ton of carbon dioxide reduced by the United States, China adds nearly four times as much," Kinzinger said." oday the Chinese account for 30 percent of global emissions. While some may say that the United States needs to be the leader of combating climate change, I would say that we already are," he continued." ince 2005 global emissions have increased by 20 percent, but the United States emissions have decreased by more than the next 12 emission-reducing countries combined," he added. As Breitbart News reported, China is ramping up its coal-powered energy supply "with the total of future projects now standing at 226.2 gigawatts (GW)":Despite China's blatant disregard for the calls of climate change alarmists, it has been granted permission to speak at the U.N. international climate summit next week in New York.	False
288	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-10-05	The declaration's signers insisted that public policy must respect scientific and economic realities and not just reflect the most fashionable trend of the day."	limate science should be less political, while climate policies should be more scientific," the declaration stated.	"Scientists should openly address the uncertainties and exaggerations in their predictions of global warming, while politicians should dispassionately count the real benefits as well as the imagined costs of adaptation to global warming, and the real costs as well as the imagined benefits of mitigation."	Late last month, a group of over 500 scientists and climate professionals sent a "European Climate Declaration" to the Secretary-General of the United Nations appealing for an open debate on climate change."	"We strongly oppose the harmful and unrealistic net-zero CO2 policy proposed for 2050."		Global Warming: Britain Braces for 'Coldest Winter in 30 Years' Yahoo News reported Saturday that temperatures in Great Britain could reach as low as -14C with "snow event after snow event" expected to hit various parts of the territory. Forecasters expect the lasting cold spell to begin sometime this month and to continue at least through March." ctober is now looking like it will turn out to be colder than average with more of a chance of something wintery setting in through the second half of the month," according to Exacta Weather forecaster James Madden." here is a strong chance of widespread frosts and the chance of snowfall which will set the scene for November," Madden said. ""This will pave the way for what is shaping up to be a colder than average winter with some extreme cold weather events." Snow events have been few and far between in recent years, but this winter is looking favourable to bring snow event after snow event as weather systems from the Atlantic clash with cold stagnated air over the UK," he said. Current sea temperatures combined with a weather system over the north Atlantic suggest that "a freezing vortex of Arctic air could hit the country" later this month, Yahoo's Victoria Bell reported. The system will presumably descend from the North Pole ushering in a swath of low pressure spanning from Greenland to the northwest coast of Ireland. In the estimation of some meteorologists, the 2019-2020 cold spell will rival the bitter winter of 1963, believed to have been the coldest in 200 years. Other weather-watchers are less confident that this winter will be a record-breaker. Mark Saunders, for example, Professor of Climate Prediction at UCL, claims that there is only a 57 percent probability that this winter will be colder than last year's. Late last month, a group of over 500 scientists and climate professionals sent a "European Climate Declaration" to the Secretary-General of the United Nations appealing for an open debate on climate change." limate science should be less political, while climate policies should be more scientific," the declaration stated. "Scientists should openly address the uncertainties and exaggerations in their predictions of global warming, while politicians should dispassionately count the real benefits as well as the imagined costs of adaptation to global warming, and the real costs as well as the imagined benefits of mitigation." There is no statistical evidence that global warming is intensifying hurricanes, floods, droughts and suchlike natural disasters, or making them more frequent," they continued. The declaration's signers insisted that public policy must respect scientific and economic realities and not just reflect the most fashionable trend of the day." here is no climate emergency. Therefore, there is no cause for panic and alarm," they noted. "We strongly oppose the harmful and unrealistic net-zero CO2 policy proposed for 2050." No matter what the winter shapes up to be, there is a 100 percent probability that climate alarmists will find some way to attribute the weather to global warming and carbon dioxide emissions.	False
708	CNN	left_bias	2017-10-10	When you think about what that rule meant, it was about picking winners and losers.	That's wrong."	Regulatory power should not be used by any regulatory body to pick winners and losers," he said at the event.	first reported on the repeal proposal.	first reported on the repeal proposal.		EPA Administrator Pruitt announces withdrawal of Clean Power Plan While speaking in Kentucky at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Pruitt said he will sign the proposed rule repealing Obama's plan Tuesday." When you think about what that rule meant, it was about picking winners and losers. Regulatory power should not be used by any regulatory body to pick winners and losers," he said at the event. "The past administration was using every bit of power and authority to use the EPA to pick winners and losers and how we generate electricity in this country. That's wrong." Under the interpretation proposed in this notice, the CPP exceeds the EPA's statutory authority and would be repealed," the proposal reads. "The EPA welcomes comment on the legal interpretation addressed in this proposed rulemaking." The proposal also says the EPA has yet to determine whether it will create an additional rule on the regulation of greenhouse gases. first reported on the repeal proposal. first reported on the repeal proposal. Bloomberg News first reported on the repeal proposal. The Clean Power Plan requires states to meet specific carbon emission reduction standards based on their individual energy consumption. The plan also includes an incentive program for states to get a head start on meeting standards on early deployment of renewable energy and low-income energy efficiency. Under President Barack Obama, the EPA estimated the Clean Power Plan could prevent 2,700 to 6,600 premature deaths and 140,000 to 150,000 asthma attacks in children. When asked earlier this year on Fox News about the health consequences of doing away with the Clean Power Plan, Pruitt ducked the question and focused on how the plan would cost jobs. He argued the plan was bureaucratic overreach. "As much as we want to see progress made with clean air and clean water, with an understanding that we can also grow jobs, we have to do so within the framework of what Congress has passed," Pruitt said. Former EPA employees have reacted harshly to the planned repeal of the rule. Obama's EPA administrator, Gina McCarthy, called the proposal "just plain backwards." "A proposal to repeal the Clean Power Plan without any time line or even a commitment to propose a rule to reduce carbon pollution, isn't a step forward, it's a wholesale retreat from EPA's legal, scientific and moral obligation to address the threats of climate change," McCarthy said in a statement Friday. Environmental advocacy groups quickly blasted Pruitt's decision, with many vowing to fight the measure in court. "Now the public has an opportunity to weigh in, as EPA is required to accept public comment on the proposed repeal and a discussion paper on a replacement," Rhea Suh, president of the Natural Resources Defense Council, said in a statement Monday. "In addition, NRDC expects to take EPA to court when the Clean Power Plan repeal is made final." When reports of the EPA's planned move began to be reported over the weekend, Environmental Defense Fund President Fred Krupp said repealing the plan without replacing it with any protections from "climate-destabilizing pollution" would fail to protect Americans from harmful pollution designated under the Clean Air Act. And Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, said Trump and Pruitt are launching "one of the most egregious attacks" on public health and climate safety. "No matter who is in the White House, the EPA is legally required to limit dangerous carbon pollution, and the Clean Power Plan is an achievable, affordable way to do that," Brune said in a Monday news release. "It is a key element in continuing the progress moving toward clean energy and retiring coal." Former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg, whose philanthropy said it would donate $15 million toward supporting operations of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change after the Trump administration announced intentions to withdraw from the Paris climate accord, tweeted his criticism of the repeal proposal Monday. "The EPA can repeal the Clean Power Plan but not the laws of economics," Bloomberg tweeted. "This won't revive coal or stop the US from reaching our Paris goal."	False
74	redstate	right_bias	2019-05-28	Curry's ultimate conclusion: "Some of the worst-case scenarios strain credulity."	"Climate is your closet wardrobe."	rojections of extreme, alarming impacts are very weakly justified to borderline impossible," Curry told The Daily Caller News Foundation.	"The odd proclamation prompted meteorologist Ryan Maue to step in and offer the young Democrat a lesson in what weather is."	The other side of her thinks we're foolish for believing her claim that climate change will destroy the world in 12 years.		Meteorologist Forced to Educate Ocasio-Cortez On the Difference Between Weather and Climate New York's democratic socialist sweetheart Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is trying very hard to sell her idea of apocalyptic climate change, or at least the side of Ocasio-Cortez that's serious about climate change ending the world in 12 years is. The other side of her thinks we're foolish for believing her claim that climate change will destroy the world in 12 years. She can be very confusing. It seems, however, that she's very confused herself, specifically about how weather works. Recently Washington D.C. suffered from tornado friendly weather, pushing AOC into believing that this natural disaster is simply part of the climate change disaster sweeping the globe. She also seemed disturbed at the appearance of "casual tornadoes," though we're not exactly sure what those are, and AOC did not elaborate." he climate crisis is real y'all," Ocasio said on Instagram. "Guess we're at casual tornadoes in growing regions of the country?"The odd proclamation prompted meteorologist Ryan Maue to step in and offer the young Democrat a lesson in what weather is."  thought this was fake but it's from [Ocasio-Cortez's] Instagram story," tweeted Maue." o idea what she means with "casual tornadoes" and how this line of severe thunderstorms is proof of any "climate crisis,"" he continued. "It's just the weather in D.C." In a second tweet, Maue pointed out that AOC doesn't seem to know the difference between weather and climate, and offered her an "easy analogy" so that she understood for the future." eather is what outfit you wear heading out the door," tweeted Maue. "Climate is your closet wardrobe." Last year, climatologist Judith Curry noted that many of the world-ending weather scenarios and predictions from politicians like AOC are as good as fantasy novels, and told the Daily Caller that it's actually impossible to predict what the climate will look like over a decade out." rojections of extreme, alarming impacts are very weakly justified to borderline impossible," Curry told The Daily Caller News Foundation. Curry's latest research, put together for clients of her consulting company near the end of November, looks in detail at projections of sea level rise. Curry's ultimate conclusion: "Some of the worst-case scenarios strain credulity." "With regards to 21st century climate projections, we are dealing with deep uncertainty, and we should not be basing our policies based on the assumption that the climate will actually evolve as per predicted," Curry told TheDCNF. "Climate variability and change is a lot more complex than 'CO2 as control knob'," Curry said. "No one wants to hear this, or actually spend time understanding things," Curry said. Of course, a lot of this alarmism from Ocasio-Cortez is a weak attempt to sell her "Green New Deal," which already failed to pass through Congress with any yes votes. The point of the Green New Deal isn't necessarily to save the world but to push socialistic standards for America in everything from how we travel to how we farm. However, everyone from economists to climate scientists, to Democrat politicians have called the Green New Deal a foolish venture, and after having reviewed it personally, I can say it's a piece of legislation that's really only good enough for kindling.	False
254	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-10-07	his is about social disruption," Shepard said.	This is our issue," Beverly said.	"Many House Democrats think there's value in putting these measures up for a vote, even if they have little chance in the Senate now, to send a message."	"And I think it's because the stereotype is that the environment is about tree hugging or saving exotic birds."	here's no question that this is a topic area that black politicians, including the CBC [Congressional Black Caucus], have not focused on as much," Thomas A. LaVeist, dean of Tulane University's School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, said in an interview.		Activists Press Congress to Help Black Communities Fight Climate Change Advocates of man-made climate change believe that it causes strong storms, rising tides, and hot temperatures, and that black communities are disproportionately hurt by the effects of "global warming." That was the topic at a recent roundtable discussion in Washington, DC, where Bloomberg Environment reported that activists at the event said Congress needed to take action." eople of color have always been on the front line of this movement," Alaina Beverly, a former Obama White House urban affairs official who is now vice president for urban affairs at the University of Chicago's Office of Federal Relations in Washington, said at the event. "We're hit first and hit worst." This is our issue," Beverly said. Bloomberg Environment reported on how blacks are allegedly suffering from climate change-related hardships:Most of the worst effects of climate change are hitting—and lingering in—poor black neighborhoods in the South, according to the Rev. Leo Woodberry, executive director of the New Alpha Community Development Corporation in Florence, S.C. In coastal South Carolina, for example, residents in largely black towns have been told they won't be eligible for flood insurance if they don't elevate their homes; but a survey of local engineering groups showed the cost starts at $20,000 for a 900-square-foot house, Woodberry said. In New York City, many residents who die from heat stroke are African American, Peggy Shepard, executive director of West Harlem Environmental Action Inc., also known as WE ACT for Environmental Justice, said at a Sept. 12 roundtable hosted by the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, where Beverly and Woodberry also spoke." his is about social disruption," Shepard said. "Extreme heat is killing thousands every year." Bloomberg Environment cited a University of California at Berkeley study that said blacks are 52 percent more likely than whites to live in so-called "urban heat islands," where the sun beams down on brick, concrete and asphalt." here's no question that this is a topic area that black politicians, including the CBC [Congressional Black Caucus], have not focused on as much," Thomas A. LaVeist, dean of Tulane University's School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, said in an interview. "And I think it's because the stereotype is that the environment is about tree hugging or saving exotic birds." Members of the Congressional Black Caucus say they've heard the call and are working on solutions," Bloomberg Environment reported. "The caucus is made up of 55 African American members of the House and Senate." I think we're going to be energetic in supporting any legislation that is aimed at improving the environment, but I also have to tell you how congested the major issues have become," Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO) said in the Bloomberg Environment article. Cleaver said lawmakers could add language to the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) budget to put resources in poor black communities, and the National Flood Insurance Program could add more protections for black communities. Bloomberg Environment reported that some are already putting out legislation with this goal in mind, including Reps. Maxine Waters (D-CA), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ) and A. Donald McEachin (D-VA)." or African Americans and people living in urban poor communities, it provides them with an empowerment tool to enforce the law, to demand action, and to try to get remediation done," Grijalva told Bloomberg Environment." eparately, Rep. Kathy Castor (D-Fla.), chairwoman of the House Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, is working on a climate bill to be rolled out in March that, among other things, will aim to help communities of color living near pollution sources," Bloomberg Environment reported. "Many House Democrats think there's value in putting these measures up for a vote, even if they have little chance in the Senate now, to send a message." The article also quoted Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) about her Green New Deal resolution that puts social justice even above climate change."  think it's backwards and shortsighted to say, 'Well, let's just throw a bunch of solar panels on everyone's roof and call it a day,'" Ocasio-Cortez said. "Because you cannot build a winning political coalition to fight climate change on just technocratic solutions." By fighting for the actual justice and livelihood of working people, you are going to create the political energy to actually address climate change," she said.	False
4	foxnews	right_bias	2019-04-30	Where does he get off thinking he's going to stop human progress?"	"He's a scam artist, and everybody knows it.	"We know that certain oil and gas corporations have been fighting public policy on this issue, have been hiding their own science and research at the expense of our climate and human life," he said.	Watters asked.	You have a $21 trillion U.S. economy, the fossil fuel industry runs this economy, it's created all of this wealth, revolutionized transportation, communications, industry, lifted people out of poverty," Watters said."		Watters on Beto's climate plan: He's a 'scam artist' who feels guilty about America's economic success "The Five" co-host Jesse Watters had some tough words for 2020 hopeful Beto O'Rourke after the former Texas representative proposed a $5 trillion climate change plan alongside the claim that the United States only had 10 years left to address the issue." If someone calls you on the phone and says you're going to die in ten years unless you give me all your money, that's a scam," Watters said. "He's a scam artist, and everybody knows it."O'Rourke asserted his controversial, 10-year prediction while appearing on MSNBC on Monday. He told host Chris Hayes that he sought to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. During that appearance, he indicated that he would have to make himself an opponent of the oil and gas industries' interests. "We know that certain oil and gas corporations have been fighting public policy on this issue, have been hiding their own science and research at the expense of our climate and human life," he said. OCASIO-CORTEZ CALLS CLIMATE CHANGE OUR 'WORLD WAR II,' WARNS THE WORLD WILL END IN 12 YEARS"So whenever those two things come in contrast or in opposition, I'm always going to choose the people of this country." O'Rourke also said that he wanted people in the fossil fuel industry to act as partners in reaching his goal." You have a $21 trillion U.S. economy, the fossil fuel industry runs this economy, it's created all of this wealth, revolutionized transportation, communications, industry, lifted people out of poverty," Watters said." Beto, who's done nothing except lose to [Sen.] Ted Cruz, [R-Texas], comes up and says I'm going to take $5 trillion and I'm going to reverse everything and change it all. He's no Einstein, he's no Carnegie. Where does he get off thinking he's going to stop human progress?" Watters asked. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPHe went on to speculate that O'Rourke pushed his climate plan because he felt "guilty" about the American economy's success because "he and other liberals have not had enough input in it."O'Rourke's program was an ambitious endeavor similar to Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's, D-N.Y., "Green New Deal," which many saw as too expensive and unrealistic. When Ocasio-Cortez responded to O'Rourke's plan, she said he didn't have an aggressive enough timeline.	False
212	thehill	left_center_bias	2019-02-12	But we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good.	The views are their own.	It is good economics.	Policies work best when they are narrowly tailored to the behavior that they seek to alter.	Thus, if we want markets to produce more clean innovation, we should reward innovators rather than penalize polluters in the hopes that doing so will indirectly induce them to produce innovation.		Green New Deal is good economics After years of failing to pass a carbon tax, climate hawks are now rallying behind a bold new proposal for tackling global warming. Known as the Green New Deal, this economic stimulus package for the planet promises to dramatically cut carbon emissions through government spending on clean energy jobs, technologies, and infrastructure. The main selling point of the Green New Deal has been its politics. While carbon pricing has long been touted as the most cost effective policy for reducing emissions, it has struggled to gain legislative traction. By contrast, advocates of the Green New Deal believe their proposal can build a winning coalition by reframing climate policy as a story of economic growth and opportunity.A Green New Deal is not just good politics. It is good economics. Society can combat climate change by using existing clean technologies to cut emissions today or by innovating new clean technologies to cut emissions in the future. We need both strategies to address global warming. Every second that we delay in reducing our carbon footprint imposes costs on ourselves and on countless future generations. If we want to avoid climate catastrophe, we need to make deep cuts in emissions soon. On the other hand, the challenges and costs of relying solely on current technologies to address climate change are prohibitively high. We need investments in clean innovation to make it cheaper to reduce emissions in the future. We could achieve the twin goals of slashing emissions and spurring innovation by putting a very high price on greenhouse gases. Carbon taxes can encourage industries to both reduce their footprints and develop cheaper clean technologies. However, carbon pricing by itself is not the most efficient climate policy. As we explain in a recent paper, the cheaper and faster approach for our society is to combine a moderately sized carbon tax with significant federal spending on the development and deployment of clean technologies. While carbon pricing is the most cost effective way to reduce emissions today, government subsidies are the most cost effective way to advance clean technologies tomorrow. The intuition behind all this is simple. Policies work best when they are narrowly tailored to the behavior that they seek to alter. Thus, if we want markets to produce more clean innovation, we should reward innovators rather than penalize polluters in the hopes that doing so will indirectly induce them to produce innovation. The benefits of directly encouraging clean innovation are striking. Economists have estimated our society can save more than $1.4 trillion a year if governments used a combination of taxes and subsidies, rather than taxes only, to address climate change. In short, good economics calls for the type of broad federal spending on clean innovation that the Green New Deal promises to deliver. Of course, the effectiveness of the proposal at spurring innovation will depend on its design, the exact details of which have yet to be ironed out. The package should increase funding for early stage clean energy research, as this kind of basic science is usually too risky to attract private investors. The Green New Deal should also include subsidies for the adoption and deployment of clean technologies, such as tax credits for clean energy investment and manufacturing. These types of policies that help emerging technologies scale up and mature can be powerful drivers of clean energy innovation. Critics will undoubtedly argue that we cannot afford the Green New Deal. This line of attack, however, ignores the costs of inaction. While the Green New Deal will not be cheap, its price pales in comparison to the damage that unchecked climate change will inflict on the economy. This argument also ignores the savings that will result from the push toward clean energy innovation under the Green New Deal. The development of cheaper clean technologies should more than offset the costs of the stimulus package. Opponents will also claim that the government is a bad venture capitalist, and that a Green New Deal will pour taxpayer dollars into clean energy boondoggles. While concerns about government waste are certainly real, they can be avoided through smart policy design. The government can encourage innovation without favoring particular clean technologies or companies by enacting neutral research and development tax credits. The ideal economic climate policy does include carbon pricing. But we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good. Even if the government cannot enact the best policy for cutting emissions today, it can still use the best policy for advancing clean innovation tomorrow. The Green New Deal pushes climate policy into uncharted political waters, but it does so based on sound economic theories. If we want to save the planet for the least amount of money, we need the Green New Deal, and we need it now. Quentin Karpilow is a law clerk in the federal judiciary. Zachary Liscow is an economist and a professor at Yale Law School who has served on the staff of the White House Council of Economic Advisors. The views are their own.	True
169	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-12-02	But we also refuse to die."	In the midst of a climate emergency, retreat and inaction are tantamount to sanctioning ecocide.	More than half of these are believed to be children.	They reflect profound failure to honour collective global commitment to protect the most vulnerable."	We are disappointed by inadequate action by developed countries and outraged by the dithering and retreat of one of the most culpable polluters from the Paris Agreement," she said."		Climate change: COP25 island nation in 'fight to death' The president of an island nation on the frontline of climate change says it is in a "fight to the death" after freak waves inundated the capital. Powerful swells averaging 5m (16ft) washed across the capital of the Marshall Islands, Majuro, last week. But President Hilda Heine said the Pacific nation had been fighting rising tides even before last week's disaster. Political leaders and climate diplomats are meeting in Madrid for two weeks of talks amid a growing sense of crisis. This conference of the parties, or COP25, was due to be held in Chile but was cancelled by the government due to weeks of civil disturbances. Spain then stepped in to host the event, which will see 29,000 attendees over the two weeks of talks.• Climate change: Where we are in seven chartsThe world's average surface temperature is rising rapidly because human activities release greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide (CO2). These gases trap heat in the atmosphere, a bit like the glass roof of a greenhouse. At the meeting, Ms Heine commented: "Water covers much of our land at one or other point of the year as we fight rising tides. As we speak hundreds of people have evacuated their homes after large waves caused the ocean to inundate parts of our capital in Majuro last week." She added: "It's a fight to the death for anyone not prepared to flee. As a nation we refuse to flee. But we also refuse to die." Ms Heine is not alone in the view that small nations like the Marshall Islands face an imminent existential threat. At the Madrid summit, ambassador Lois Young, from the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), which represents low-lying coastal countries and small island nations, launched a rebuke to the world's big polluters." We are disappointed by inadequate action by developed countries and outraged by the dithering and retreat of one of the most culpable polluters from the Paris Agreement," she said." In the midst of a climate emergency, retreat and inaction are tantamount to sanctioning ecocide. They reflect profound failure to honour collective global commitment to protect the most vulnerable." With our very existence at stake, COP 25 must demonstrate unprecedented ambition to avert ecocide." The COP25 meeting will aim to step up ambition so that all countries increase their national commitments to cut emissions. The meeting follows on the heels of three UN reports which stressed the increased urgency of limiting dangerous climate change. According to UN Secretary General António Guterres, "the point of no return is no longer over the horizon". Speaking ahead of the meeting, he said political leaders had to respond to the imminent climate crisis." In the crucial 12 months ahead, it is essential that we secure more ambitious national commitments - particularly from the main emitters - to immediately start reducing greenhouse gas emissions at a pace consistent to reaching carbon neutrality by 2050." We simply have to stop digging and drilling and take advantage of the vast possibilities offered by renewable energy and nature-based solutions," Mr Guterres said. Almost every country in the world has now signed and ratified the Paris climate agreement and under the terms of the pact they will all have to put new climate pledges on the table before the end of 2020. This meeting in Madrid signals the start of a frantic 12 months of negotiations that will culminate in Glasgow with COP26 in November next year. Some 50 world leaders are expected to attend the meeting in the Spanish capital - but US President Donald Trump will not be among them. The US became a signatory to the landmark Paris climate agreement in April 2016, under the Obama administration. But President Trump has said the accord - which has been signed by more than 190 countries - would lead to lost jobs and lower wages for American workers. Last month, he began the process of withdrawing from the Paris deal. However, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi, will attend the conference with a congressional delegation. While her presence has been welcomed, US environmentalists want to see concrete steps on climate." While it's great Speaker Pelosi is coming to Madrid in place of Trump, symbolic gestures are no substitute for bold action," said Jean Su from the US Center for Biological Diversity." America remains the number one historic contributor to the climate emergency, and even Democratic politicians have never committed to taking responsibility for our fair share." Underlining the real world impacts of climate change, a report from the charity Save the Children, says that what it calls "climate shocks" are threatening tens of millions of people in East and Southern Africa. The charity says 33 million people are at emergency levels of food insecurity due to cyclones and droughts. More than half of these are believed to be children. The situation has been made worse because the two strongest cyclones ever to hit the African continent, affected the same region just weeks apart. Cyclone Idai struck Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Malawi last March, while six weeks later Cyclone Kenneth slammed Mozambique with millions affected by flooding." The climate crisis is happening here, and it's killing people, forcing them from their homes and ruining children's chance of a future," said Ian Vale from Save the Children.	False
259	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-11-29	The host asked Warren a listener question: name the "specific steps" she has taken in her campaign "to ensure that your campaign's environmental impact is limited as possible."	Congress has been feeding our fossil fuel addiction," Graham added.	"They know they are killing our future, but they won't take action to save it."	"Climate change activists across the globe opted to protest what they consider a climate "crisis" on the biggest shopping day of the year, disrupting shoppers at the Water Tower Place shopping mall in Chicago, Illinois, and holding a "Black Friday Funeral For Future" in the nation's capital:Warren emphatically expressed her support for their efforts."	Think about that, three things, 70 percent reduction," she added.		Elizabeth Warren Praises Black Friday Climate Change Protesters: 'Stay Strong in this Fight!' Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) on Friday praised the climate change activists who are striking on Black Friday, urging them to "stay strong in this fight!"Climate change activists across the globe opted to protest what they consider a climate "crisis" on the biggest shopping day of the year, disrupting shoppers at the Water Tower Place shopping mall in Chicago, Illinois, and holding a "Black Friday Funeral For Future" in the nation's capital:Warren emphatically expressed her support for their efforts." limate change is an existential threat, and it's going to take a grassroots movement ready to fight for big, structural change to defeat it," Warren wrote. "I'm standing with the young activists on #ClimateStrike today—stay strong in this fight!":While protests, indeed, broke out across the globe, the protest in D.C. featured a funeral procession to "draw attention to the crisis and show that business, as usual, can not continue." We'll gather on the Southeast lawn of the Capitol to eulogize and mourn all that has been lost and all that is threatened by the climate crisis," the event's description reads." ll those with hopes and dreams who cherish the future are invited to gather in the shadow of the Halls of Congress. The ceremonial closed-casket funeral will conclude with a funeral procession through the streets of Washington, DC," it added, quoting activists who called petroleum a "plague" and the "black death of our generation." We're bringing the loss of our future to the steps of the Capitol because they need to prepare to own this death," 17-year-old organizer Maddie Graham said." e need systemic change. Congress has been feeding our fossil fuel addiction," Graham added. "They know they are killing our future, but they won't take action to save it." Meanwhile, Warren has attempted to channel Gov. Jay Inslee's (D) climate change proposals in recent months. Warren said during an interview with New Hampshire Public Radio in October:"We do those three things, we cut carbon emission in our country by 70 percent. Think about that, three things, 70 percent reduction," she added. The host asked Warren a listener question: name the "specific steps" she has taken in her campaign "to ensure that your campaign's environmental impact is limited as possible." Warren did not go into detail but claimed that she "mostly" flies commercial." o I've mostly been flying commercial," Warren said." t's everything from the kind of car we drive and down to, do we purchase offsets? Can we make that work s a way to try to reduce the footprint," she added:	False
486	theguardian	left_center_bias	2018-12-10	I can't believe they are putting profits over the planet, and profits over people."	After the protesters were led away by security guards, Griffiths said: "In the US our policy is not to keep it in the ground, but to use it as cleanly and efficiently as possible".	None of the panelists would be drawn on the study, but Griffith spoke out against "alarmism" that, he claimed, displaced pragmatic solutions to address environmental concerns with prescriptive regulations that put jobs at risk and raised costs for consumers.	"There is no such thing as clean coal.	Ten minutes into Griffith's opening speech, he was interrupted by a sudden, sustained, loud volley of laughter by several dozen protesters that was then followed by a single shout of "It's not funny", and then a series of chants of "Keep it in the ground" and "Shame on you".		Protesters disrupt US panel's fossil fuels pitch at climate talks A Trump administration presentation extolling the virtues of fossil fuels at the UN climate talks in Poland has been met with guffaws of laughter and chants of "Shame on you". Monday's protest came during a panel discussion by the official US delegation, which used its only public appearance to promote the "unapologetic utilisation" of coal, oil and gas. Although these industries are the main source of the carbon emissions that are causing global warming, the speakers boasted the US would expand production for the sake of global energy security and planned a new fleet of coal plants with technology it hoped to export to other countries. The event featured prominent cheerleaders for fossil fuels and nuclear power, including Wells Griffith, Donald Trump's adviser on global energy and climate, Steve Winberg, the assistant secretary for fossil energy at the energy department, and Rich Powell, the executive director of the ClearPath Foundation, a non-profit organisation focused on "conservative clean energy". The only non-American was Patrick Suckling, the ambassador for the environment in Australia's coal-enthusiast government. None of the US participants mentioned climate change or global warming, focusing instead of "innovation and entrepreneurship" in the technological development of nuclear power, "clean coal" and carbon capture and storage. Ten minutes into Griffith's opening speech, he was interrupted by a sudden, sustained, loud volley of laughter by several dozen protesters that was then followed by a single shout of "It's not funny", and then a series of chants of "Keep it in the ground" and "Shame on you". Several campaigners read statements. "There is no such thing as clean coal. Coal is deadly from the beginning to the end. They talk about the life cycle of coal, I talk about it as a death march. My father died of black lung, and I am in this struggle with others whose fathers and husbands are dying of black lung right now," said Teri Blanton of Kentuckians for the Commonwealth, which represents Appalachian coal workers in North America. After the protesters were led away by security guards, Griffiths said: "In the US our policy is not to keep it in the ground, but to use it as cleanly and efficiently as possible". This statement was contradicted by climate analysts, who noted the US environment agency estimates that 1,400 more deaths per year will result from Trump's proposal to replace the Clean Power Act." t's ludicrous for Trump officials to claim that they want to clean up fossil fuels, while dismantling standards that would do just that," said Dan Lashof, the director of the World Resources Institute. "Since taking office, this administration has proposed to roll back measures to cut methane leaks from oil and gas operations, made it easier for companies to dump coal ash into drinking water, and just days ago proposed easing carbon pollution rules for new coal-fired power plants." Griffith boasted the US had the largest coal reserves in the world and iwas producing more petroleum than ever. "To achieve economic growth and eradicate poverty, all energy uses are important and they will be utilised unapologetically," he said. Echoing a claim often made by Trump, Griffiths said the US would not be subject to agreements that hamstrung domestic growth, while allowing China to operate with high emissions. This was the second consecutive year that the Trump team was heckled after promoting fossil fuels and nuclear power at the climate talks, underscoring how the US position has shifted since the president took power in 2017. The US was a key player in forging the Paris agreement in 2015, but its standing has steadily eroded since. In 2017, Trump announced he would pull the US out of the global accord. This year, his representatives have taken a still more destructive stance by aligning with Russia, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to try to downgrade a key report by the world's scientists that warned of the dangers of global warming moving beyond 1.5C above pre-industrial levels. None of the panelists would be drawn on the study, but Griffith spoke out against "alarmism" that, he claimed, displaced pragmatic solutions to address environmental concerns with prescriptive regulations that put jobs at risk and raised costs for consumers. In fact, scientists say their forecasts about climate impacts have been too conservative, while economists say the shift to renewables has resulted in cheaper energy for many users. Winberg said the US government was planning to support a new fleet of small, modular coal plants that he claimed would be energy-efficient and have near-zero emissions if combined with carbon capture technology. After initial development in the US, he said they could be exported to other countries. "They offer opportunity for developing nations to access tomorrow's coal technology to improve energy security," he said. He also proposed more pipelines to oil fields in the Gulf of Mexico. Despite this public commitment, the US use of coal is declining because renewables are cheaper, according to Nathaniel Keohane, the senior vice-president for the Environmental Defense Fund nonprofit group." rump is playing politics, but it's not changing the facts on the ground," he said. "Coal usage in the US just hit a 39-year low. If we really want to protect our economy, we'll move aggressively toward 100% clean energy." An alternative, non-official US delegation has backed a faster transition to renewables. Made up of city- and state-level governments, business executives and religious leaders, the "We're still in" group is staging dozens of events in a bid to show action is still possible without White House support. Nonetheless, many observers at the official US panel were ashamed at the position of their federal government. "I was completely embarrassed to be an American", said Leo McNeil Woodberry of the Climate Action Network. "Everything they proposed was absolutely wrong. I can't believe they are putting profits over the planet, and profits over people."	False
437	motherjones	left_bias	2018-08-16	"Mother Jones asked an expert to decipher this nonsense, and you can read his analysis here.	t's a breath of fresh air to see science, instead of politics, inserted into forest and fire management," said Kirin Kennedy, associate legislative director for lands and wildlife at the Sierra Club, in a statement.	The report comes at the same time the president has sent out misleading tweets about the causes and solutions of California's wildfires, and as Donald Trump's Interior head Ryan Zinke has blamed fires on environmentalists, denied climate change science, and called for more logging.	Zinke has said the forest fires have "nothing to do with climate change" and recently called the left "angry," "intolerant" and "uninformed" on the environment and public land management, according to the Huffington Post.	Trump weighed in on California's fires on Twitter earlier this month, with tweets that were immediately described as false and misleading, saying, "California wildfires are being magnified & made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized…Must also tree clear to stop fire spreading!		The Trump Administration Will Not Be Happy About the Forest Service's New Fire Management Strategy As wildfires continue to rage across the West during a brutally hot summer, on Thursday the US Forest Service released its new forest fire management strategy that focuses on science and the changing climate. The report comes at the same time the president has sent out misleading tweets about the causes and solutions of California's wildfires, and as Donald Trump's Interior head Ryan Zinke has blamed fires on environmentalists, denied climate change science, and called for more logging. Zinke has said the forest fires have "nothing to do with climate change" and recently called the left "angry," "intolerant" and "uninformed" on the environment and public land management, according to the Huffington Post. But the Department of the Interior disputes this in an email to Mother Jones, saying, "The Secretary addressed the correlation between climate and fires dozens of times over the 48 hours he was in California and all week in interviews since returning. Additionally, in his op-ed, the Secretary directly addressed longer, hotter, drier seasons in the opening paragraphs." It's true that Zinke changed his tune—after his earlier comments, Zinke told reporters Thursday that climate change has played a role in the fires and that global temperatures are rising. Trump weighed in on California's fires on Twitter earlier this month, with tweets that were immediately described as false and misleading, saying, "California wildfires are being magnified & made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized…Must also tree clear to stop fire spreading!"Mother Jones asked an expert to decipher this nonsense, and you can read his analysis here. But today, the Forest Service, which is part of the Department of Agriculture, released a new 28-page fire-management strategy. In it, the service writes, "Of particular concern are longer fire seasons and the rising size and severity of wildfires, along with the growing risk to lives, homes, natural resources, and other values." The report also includes a map of changes in fire weather seasons in the United States between 1979 and 2017, a phenomenon scientists warn is largely due to climate change:Though the Forest Service doesn't mention the words "climate change" specifically (as past versions of the plan have), it points out that "changes in temperature, precipitation patterns, and other environmental conditions" are all "driving factors" behind wildfires and other environmental challenges. And in the Appendix, the Forest Service writes, "effects of a changing climate" are a general threat to forest health." t's a breath of fresh air to see science, instead of politics, inserted into forest and fire management," said Kirin Kennedy, associate legislative director for lands and wildlife at the Sierra Club, in a statement. "The longer Ryan Zinke continues to ignore these facts the greater the risks to homes and families."	False
843	Daily Mail	questionable_source	2017-09-12	'Not the cause of it, but the things that we observe.	'But in politics it's become a heated issue that speaks to the current red-versus-blue divide.	'To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people, or actually facing the effect of the storm, is misplaced,' Pruitt said.	Of course the scientific community, as the New York Times put it, believes that 'drawing links between warming global temperatures and the ferocity of hurricanes is about as controversial as talking about geology after an earthquake.	'I'm not sure, specifically, on the Paris climate deal, but as he said at the time the goal is to always do the very best when taking care of the environment and taking proper steps,' Huckabee Sanders replied.		WH won't say if climate change responsible for hurricanes Trump administration officials are keeping their lips sealed on whether they believe there are connections between the two Category 4 hurricanes that came barreling at the United States in recent weeks – Harvey and Irma – and climate change. When Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders was asked about a link Monday she touted the country's environmental record and moved on. When Homeland Security Advisor Tom Bossert was asked, as he preceded Huckabee Sanders in the briefing, he wouldn't talk about climate change's cause.'I will tell you that we continue to take seriously the climate change,' he said. 'Not the cause of it, but the things that we observe.''Causality is something outside my ability to analyze right now,' Bossert also added. When President Trump was asked about it Sunday, returning home to the White House from Camp David, he simply ignored the reporter's query and walked inside. Climate scientists largely agree that the oceans are heating up, leading to larger, scarier hurricanes. At Monday's briefing, Huckabee Sanders dismissed a climate change question, noting that Trump had addressed the issue previously of whether he thought it was man-made. In the past Trump has suggested climate change was a hoax created by the Chinese to choke American industry. In June he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate accord. Huckabee Sanders was also asked if Trump was re-thinking that decision now.'I'm not sure, specifically, on the Paris climate deal, but as he said at the time the goal is to always do the very best when taking care of the environment and taking proper steps,' Huckabee Sanders replied.'The United States is one of the best in the world at doing this, we want to continue to do that, but right now the administration is focused on the recovery and the relief efforts and as Tom [Bossert] said a few minutes ago we'll look at that analysis once we get through the coming days and focus on the recovery and relief and saving-life effort,' Huckabee Sanders added. Bossert had suggested that the hurricanes be studied, though also pointed out the cyclical nature of the seasons.'And I think the scientists for the forecast on this particular one, they were dead on that this would be a stronger, more powerful hurricane season with slightly more than average large storms making landfall in the United States,' he said.'So we'll have to do a larger trend analysis at a later date,' Bossert added. The Environmental Protection Agency's Scott Pruitt went one step further when asked about climate change Friday, suggesting that it wasn't appropriate.'To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people, or actually facing the effect of the storm, is misplaced,' Pruitt said. Of course the scientific community, as the New York Times put it, believes that 'drawing links between warming global temperatures and the ferocity of hurricanes is about as controversial as talking about geology after an earthquake.'But in politics it's become a heated issue that speaks to the current red-versus-blue divide. And while it's primarily Republicans who won't touch the global warming third rail, that doesn't always hold true. On Sunday, Sen. John McCain, R-Fla., who has preached bipartisanship in recent months on the heels of his cancer diagnosis, told CNN's Jake Tapper that he didn't know why his Republican colleagues were denying climate change, adding that it was 'time to sit down.''We have to understand that the climate may be changing and we can take common sense measures which will not harm the American people,' McCain argued.	False
470	politicususa	left_bias	2018-09-03	Vivian Stockman of the Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition was protesting outside Trump's rally."	In West Virginia, coal is popular, and politicians who support coal get elected.	The clean air rules reduced the number of people dying from coal-fired power plants substantially.	It would have increased federal regulation of emissions from the nation's electrical grid and broadly promoted natural gas, solar power and other cleaner energy.	Even though they will be getting sick and dying at higher rates, it is not expected that Trump's actions will reduce his popularity among West Virginians.		Trump's New Pollution Rules Will Kill Off His Own Supporters President Donald Trump picked West Virginia to announce his plan to reduce pollution controls on coal-fired power plants, which is no surprise. West Virginia loves coal, and coal miners love Trump, but what both of them may not love is the fact that a reduction in pollution controls is going to greatly increase the number of people who die prematurely from pollution created by burning coal. It will also greatly increase the number of people who get sick with serious illnesses such as heart and lung problems. When he made his announcement somehow Trump left out those details of the life-threatening side-effects of using coal to create electrical energy. Even though they will be getting sick and dying at higher rates, it is not expected that Trump's actions will reduce his popularity among West Virginians. An analysis done by his own Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) concludes that the rollback of Obama-era pollution controls will lead to many more people dying and suffering health problems that they otherwise would not have. Clean-air controls since the 1980's stopped the columns of black soot that used to rise from coal smokestacks in the region. The clean air rules reduced the number of people dying from coal-fired power plants substantially. Technology has changed, and now pollutants rise from smokestacks as gases before solidifying into invisible particles small enough to pass through lungs and into bloodstreams. An EPA analysis says those pollutants would increase under Trump's plan, when compared to what would happen under the Obama rules. This will result in many thousands of more heart attacks, asthma problems and other illnesses than would have happened without Trump's new rules. The EPA says up to 1,500 more people will die each year under Trump's plan. And the areas that will be hit the hardest are in Trump country — the coal mining regions of West Virginia. There could be dozens of new deaths and hundreds of new serious illnesses each year because of Trump's plan. Obama's Clean Power Plan targeted climate-changing carbon dioxide and would have curbed harmful emissions of carbon dioxide and other pollutants from the coal-fired power plants. It would have increased federal regulation of emissions from the nation's electrical grid and broadly promoted natural gas, solar power and other cleaner energy. Trump's Affordable Clean Energy program will dismantle President Barack Obama's 2015 Clean Power Plan which has not yet been implemented due to court battles. Trump's plan will give up much of the federal oversight of existing coal-fired power plants. Not only that, but the government will no longer promote cleaner energy. Individual states will decide how much to regulate coal power plants in their own states. At his public announcement Trump said "I'm getting rid of some of these ridiculous rules and regulations, which are killing our companies … and our jobs." There was no mention of the increases in harmful emissions that would result, compared to the Obama plan, or the health risks. In West Virginia, coal is popular, and politicians who support coal get elected. Vivian Stockman of the Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition was protesting outside Trump's rally." ur state is beholden to coal. Our politicians are beholden to coal. Meanwhile, our people are being poisoned," she said.	False
478	cbsnews	left_center_bias	2018-12-11	House.	Voters said they had been turned off by what they saw as Arrington's flip-flop on the issue, and they turned instead to Cunningham's consistency.	The government doesn't get to pick winners and losers in this thing," Mace said.	The governor and Attorney General (Alan) Wilson have resolved to continue working together to determine the best path forward," Symmes said.	South Carolina Gov.		Environmental groups to sue Trump administration over offshore drilling tests Environmental groups plan to sue the Trump administration over offshore drilling tests, launching a legal fight against a proposal that has drawn bipartisan opposition along the Atlantic Coast, two people with direct knowledge of the pending litigation told The Associated Press. The lawsuit, which aims to stop the issuance of permits for the use of seismic air guns, will be filed by a coalition of environmental groups in federal court in South Carolina on Tuesday, according to the individuals. They spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly before the suit is filed. The Trump administration has authorized five such permits, which aim to find oil and gas formations deeply below the Atlantic Ocean floor, from Delaware to central Florida, an area where seismic surveys haven't been conducted in decades. The blasts are conducted in preparation for potential offshore drilling, which the administration has proposed to expand from the Atlantic to the Arctic and Pacific oceans. The five-year plan would open 90 percent of the nation's offshore reserves to private development. Survey vessels will be required to have observers on board to listen and watch for marine life and alert operators if a protected species comes within a certain distance, officials have said, and acoustic monitoring will be used to detect those animals swimming beneath the ocean surface. Surveys would be shut down when certain sensitive species or groups are observed and penalties could be imposed for vessels that strike marine animals. The precautions aren't enough for environmental groups, who have said the blasts can disturb marine mammals. Industry groups say the surveys have been conducted around the world for decades, with little adverse impact. The drilling issue has created strange political bedfellows along the East Coast, with Democrats and Republicans in some areas united over the issue. In South Carolina's 1st Congressional District, Republican Katie Arrington — a supporter of President Donald Trump who initially said she stood by his plans to open up Atlantic Coast drilling — later backed off that support amid a growing wave of drilling opposition in the coastal district she aimed to represent. Arrington ultimately lost the general election to Joe Cunningham, a Democrat staunchly opposed to drilling who collected support from coastal Republican mayors. Voters said they had been turned off by what they saw as Arrington's flip-flop on the issue, and they turned instead to Cunningham's consistency. On Monday, Cunningham told the AP that he backed the legal effort, which would pair with legislative action he plans to take up in the U.S. House."I'm going to go up to D.C. and fight like hell," Cunningham said. "These lawsuits are one tool in our bag that we're going to use." South Carolina Gov. Henry McMaster's early support of Trump's candidacy hasn't stopped him from opposing the president's drilling plans. Earlier this year, McMaster was among state executives to request a drilling waiver, seeking the same sort of promise already given to Florida Gov. Rick Scott, another Trump ally. Since then, officials from the Department of the Interior have said Secretary Ryan Zinke's promise to Florida was not a formal action and will instead be part of the department's analysis as it completes its plans. In February, McMaster met with Zinke at the Governor's Mansion in Columbia. This week, McMaster spokesman Brian Symmes told The Associated Press that the governor and the state's top prosecutor, both Republicans, would continue to work on a plan to keep drilling away from the state." The governor and Attorney General (Alan) Wilson have resolved to continue working together to determine the best path forward," Symmes said. "Anything and everything is on the table to keep us from seeing seismic testing or offshore drilling off the coast of South Carolina." State Rep. Nancy Mace, a Republican representing parts of the greater Charleston area, supports the lawsuit, which she called South Carolina's best option to challenge federal government overreach." The government doesn't get to pick winners and losers in this thing," Mace said. "When you have every mayor, every community saying, 'We don't want this,' and now you're going to shove seismic testing down our throats? I don't think so." Mace said she is concerned both with potential environmental damage and the possible threat to South Carolina's $20 billion tourism industry, much of which centers around the coast." We have the potential to destroy that beauty off our coast with rigs that nobody wants," Mace said. "We've got to do something, and a lawsuit might be the only way to do it."	False
53	foxnews	right_bias	2019-02-05	"My personal view is, that undermines the credibility of the effort."	(Several other Democrats announced guests apparently intended to highlight their opposition to various Trump administration policies, while Trump himself extended invites to the family of a couple allegedly murdered by an illegal immigrant and a child bullied at school for having the last name "Trump.	Institute for Energy Research president Tom Pyle was more blunt: "One hundred percent renewable energy defies the laws of physics.	Hockett is a lawyer and law professor, and is not an expert in environmental policy.	ANALYSIS: GREEN NEW DEAL IS MOST RADICAL LEGISLATION IN DECADESThrough it all, the Green New Deal would additionally "promote justice and equity by preventing current and repairing historic oppression to frontline and vulnerable communities," according to Ocasio-Cortez.		'Green New Deal' details emerge, as Ocasio-Cortez preps big reveal of WW2-level mobilization New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez on Monday unveiled new details on the so-called "Green New Deal" she plans to introduce in a matter of days, as she worked behind-the-scenes to rally congressional support for the proposal that could cost as much as $7 trillion. Ocasio-Cortez, who is set to unveil the plan with Massachusetts Democratic Sen. Ed Markey, told her fellow representatives in a letter that the Green New Deal calls for a "national, social, industrial and economic mobilization at a scale not seen since World War II." Next week, we plan to release a resolution that outlines the scope and scale of the Green New Deal," Ocasio-Cortez said in the letter, adding that the country's near-total economic transformation should take approximately ten years. To raise awareness for the measure, Markey announced Monday he had invited Varshini Prakash, the co-founder of the Sunrise Movement environmentalist group, to be his guest at President Trump's State of the Union address Tuesday night. (Several other Democrats announced guests apparently intended to highlight their opposition to various Trump administration policies, while Trump himself extended invites to the family of a couple allegedly murdered by an illegal immigrant and a child bullied at school for having the last name "Trump.")The Green New Deal proposal would lead to national net-zero greenhouse gas emissions, according to Ocasio-Cortez's letter, "through a fair and just transition for all communities and workers," while also generating millions of "good, high-wage jobs." Details of the letter were first published by Bloomberg. ANALYSIS: GREEN NEW DEAL IS MOST RADICAL LEGISLATION IN DECADESThrough it all, the Green New Deal would additionally "promote justice and equity by preventing current and repairing historic oppression to frontline and vulnerable communities," according to Ocasio-Cortez. On Twitter Monday, Ocasio-Cortez reposted a claim from one of her advisers, Robert Hockett, arguing that "in this case, size matters" and that "the problems the Green New Deal addresses require solutions where bigger is better, imperative, and paraodixcally, more affordable." Hockett is a lawyer and law professor, and is not an expert in environmental policy. Several analysts, meanwhile, have cautioned that the liberal firebrand is in over her head, even though the as-yet vague and uncertain details about the Green New Deal render a precise calculation impossible at the moment. Physicist Christopher Clack told The Hill that the cost would easily be into the trillions." t's a daunting task, and I'm not sure that the authors of the Green New Deal fully comprehend how much they'll need," Clack said. Institute for Energy Research president Tom Pyle was more blunt: "One hundred percent renewable energy defies the laws of physics. It would be impossible to achieve." And Paul Bledsoe, a strategic adviser at the Progressive Policy Institute, said progressives were overcompensating. "I understand the value of aspirational goals," Bledsoe said. "My personal view is, that undermines the credibility of the effort." Nevertheless, approximately 70 Democratic lawmakers have so far tentatively endorsed a Green New Deal plan, including Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren and California Democratic Sen. Kamala Harris. House speaker Nancy Pelosi, who has vowed to address climate change, has not publicly signed onto the plan, even though scores of progressive activists -- joined by Ocasio-Cortez -- staged a sit-in at her House office late last year, demanding action on the climate. While there is no legislative text yet available for the Markey/Ocasio-Cortez proposal, a draft circulated by Ocasio-Cortez last week called for a committee to be formed to create a plan, and lays out a framework that includes eliminating greenhouse gas emissions from manufacturing and agriculture, while "dramatically" expanding energy sources to meet 100 percent of power demand through renewable sources. To cover what would presumably be a gargantuan cost, it envisions financing by "the federal government, using a combination of the Federal Reserve, a new public bank or system of regional and specialized public banks, public venture funds and such other vehicles or structures that the select committee deems appropriate, in order to ensure that interest and other investment returns generated from public investments made in connection with the plan will be returned to the treasury, reduce taxpayer burden and allow for more investment." As it stands, any such proposal would be almost certainly dead on arrival in the Republican-controlled Senate, and also possibly the House -- where it is not clear if a majority of Democrats would back a plan. Even if Congress managed to pass a version of the Green New Deal, the White House could veto the legislation, and a two-thirds majority in both the House of Representatives and the Senate would be needed to override the veto. The Trump administration has made clear it would not accept Ocasio-Cortez's proposals. In January, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders derided Ocasio-Cortez's recent claim that the world will end in 12 years due to climate change, and suggested the Trump administration has little need for the progressive firebrand's thoughts in general. CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP"I don't think we're going to listen to [Ocasio-Cortez] on much of anything -- particularly not on matters we're gonna leave in the hands of a much, much higher authority -- and certainly, not listen to the freshman congresswoman on when the world may end," Sanders told Fox News' "Hannity." Speaking at an event commemorating Martin Luther King Day that month, Ocasio-Cortez asserted that climate change constituted "our World War II" and added: "Millennials and people, you know, Gen Z and all these folks that will come after us are looking up and we're like: 'The world is gonna end in 12 years if we don't address climate change and your biggest issue is, how are we gonna pay for it?'"	False
157	shareblue	left_bias	2019-04-15	Published with permission of The American Independent.	Just because our scientists publish something in a journal doesn't mean that that's agency policy or all the other scientists at the agency agree with that particular study," Wheeler told Reuters.	And Wheeler's approach — ignoring science in favor of industry and pollution — is a perfect reflection of Trump's shameful approach to climate issues.	The administration and its officials regularly disregard the scientific consensus about the harms of climate change in order to justify rolling back regulations and trashing initiatives designed to make the world cleaner and safer.	But Trump and his fellow Republicans refuse to acknowledge reality — and they certainly can't be bothered to read scientific reports about it.		Trump's EPA chief dismisses climate study, then admits he hasn't read it Trump's recently installed EPA chief dismissed a study from his own department's scientists about the dangers of climate change — and then admitted he never even read the study in the first place. The study, produced by EPA scientists and published in the journal Nature Climate Change, concluded that climate change will affect 22 major sectors in the United States, including human health, infrastructure, and agriculture — and that the damages in some sectors are "estimated to range in the hundreds of billions of US dollars annually by the end of the century" if we do nothing and allow carbon emissions to remain high. But EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler — a former coal lobbyist and a pro-pollution apologist — doesn't care." Just because our scientists publish something in a journal doesn't mean that that's agency policy or all the other scientists at the agency agree with that particular study," Wheeler told Reuters. But Wheeler's quick dismissal of the report was followed up by an admission that he had no idea what it actually said."I have not read that article, I just saw a news a clip about it, but I haven't read it and I haven't talked to the scientist that wrote it," Wheeler said. Wheeler was appointed to head the EPA after Trump's first scandal-plagued EPA chief, Scott Pruitt, was ousted. And Wheeler's approach — ignoring science in favor of industry and pollution — is a perfect reflection of Trump's shameful approach to climate issues. The administration and its officials regularly disregard the scientific consensus about the harms of climate change in order to justify rolling back regulations and trashing initiatives designed to make the world cleaner and safer. Trump himself once infamously promoted the false conspiracy theory that climate change is a hoax from the Chinese government. Currently, Trump is trying to create a senior-level government panel that would oppose the scientific facts of climate change and instead promote baseless propaganda from pro-pollution crackpots. Most U.S. government agencies are refusing to participate in the project. However, Trump is still receiving plenty of help from congressional Republicans who refuse to take the climate crisis seriously. Senate Republicans have relentlessly made false and disingenuous attacks on the Green New Deal, a sweeping Democratic proposal to help stop climate change before it's too late while also creating jobs and protecting vulnerable communities. And in the House, Rep. Thomas Massie (R-KY) made a viral fool of himself by attacking former Secretary of State John Kerry after he tried to raise concerns about how climate change would harm national security. Climate change is real. It is a threat to America and to all of humanity. But Trump and his fellow Republicans refuse to acknowledge reality — and they certainly can't be bothered to read scientific reports about it. Published with permission of The American Independent.	False
624	Drudge Report	right_bias	2017-10-09	That was the right thing to do."	The Trump Administration's persistent and indefensible denial of climate change — and their continued assault on actions essential to stemming its increasing devastation — is reprehensible, and I will use every available legal tool to fight their dangerous agenda," said Schneiderman, a Democrat.	In his order Tuesday, Pruitt is expected to declare that the Obama-era rule exceeded federal law by setting emissions standards that power plants could not reasonably meet.	This president has tremendous courage," Pruitt said Monday.	Closely aligned with the oil and gas industry in his home state, Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man-made emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change.		EPA terminates Obama's climate plan... HAZARD, Ky. (AP) — A coalition of left-leaning states and environmental groups are vowing to fight the Trump administration's move to kill an Obama-era effort to limit carbon emissions from coal-fired power plants. Speaking Monday in the coal-mining state of Kentucky, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt said he would be issuing a new set of rules overriding the Clean Power Plan, the centerpiece of President Barack Obama's drive to curb global climate change." The war on coal is over," Pruitt declared, adding that no federal agency should ever use its authority to "declare war on any sector of our economy." It was not immediately clear if Pruitt would seek to issue a new rule without congressional approval, which Republicans had criticized the Obama administration for doing. Pruitt's rule wouldn't become final for months, and is then highly likely to face a raft of legal challenges. New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman was among those who said they will sue." The Trump Administration's persistent and indefensible denial of climate change — and their continued assault on actions essential to stemming its increasing devastation — is reprehensible, and I will use every available legal tool to fight their dangerous agenda," said Schneiderman, a Democrat. For Pruitt, getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma. Pruitt was among about two dozen attorney generals who sued to stop Obama's 2014 push to limit carbon emissions, stymieing the limits from ever taking effect. Closely aligned with the oil and gas industry in his home state, Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man-made emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change. President Donald Trump, who appointed Pruitt and shares his skepticism of established climate science, promised to kill the Clean Power Plan during the 2016 campaign as part of his broader pledge to revive the nation's struggling coal mines. In his order Tuesday, Pruitt is expected to declare that the Obama-era rule exceeded federal law by setting emissions standards that power plants could not reasonably meet. Pruitt appeared at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell at Whayne Supply in Hazard, Kentucky, a company that sells coal mining supplies. The store's owners have been forced to lay off about 60 percent of its workers in recent years. While cheering the demise of the Clean Power Plan as a way to stop the bleeding, McConnell conceded most of those lost jobs are never coming back."A lot of damage has been done," said McConnell, a Kentucky Republican. "This doesn't immediately bring everything back, but we think it stops further decline of coal fired plants in the United States and that means there will still be some market here." Obama's plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. The rule dictated specific emission targets for states based on power-plant emissions and gave officials broad latitude to decide how to achieve reductions. The Supreme Court put the plan on hold last year following legal challenges by industry and coal-friendly states. Even so, the plan helped drive a recent wave of retirements of coal-fired plants, which are also being squeezed by low cost natural gas and renewable power. In the absence of stricter federal regulations curbing greenhouse gas emissions, many states have issued their own mandates promoting energy conservation. The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change, including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal-burning power plants. On Thursday, Trump nominated former coal-industry lobbyist Andrew Wheeler to serve as Pruitt's top deputy at EPA — one of several recent political appointees at the agency with direct ties to the fossil fuel interests. The president announced earlier this year that he will pull the United States out of the landmark Paris climate agreement. Nearly 200 countries have committed to combat global warming by reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming." This president has tremendous courage," Pruitt said Monday. "He put America first and said to the rest of the world we are going to say no and exit the Paris Accord. That was the right thing to do." Despite the rhetoric about saving coal, government statistics show that coal mines currently employ only about 52,000 workers nationally — a modest 4-percent uptick since Trump became president. Those numbers are dwarfed by the jobs created by building such clean power infrastructure as wind turbines and solar arrays." Trump is not just ignoring the deadly cost of pollution, he's ignoring the clean energy deployment that is rapidly creating jobs across the country," said Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club. Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker reported from Washington. Follow him at  story has been corrected to show the percentage of coal jobs created under Trump was 4 percent.	False
661	CNN	left_bias	2017-04-20	It's in their drinking water and it's in their soil.	That includes financial help to make sure that happens. "	Administrator Pruitt was working for environmental justice by meeting with the real residents affected by lead contamination and by committing to get results."	One week ago, the local chapter of the NAACP said it invited Pruitt to a roundtable discussion on environmental justice, which happened Wednesday morning.	EPA spokesman J.P. Freire told CNN in an email: "Forget about the politics.		EPA head visits community famous for lead contamination The people who live there are at risk of lead contamination at every turn. It's in their drinking water and it's in their soil. More than one thousand people were forced to evacuate, according to Debbie Chizewer at Northwestern Law School, who has worked very closely with the affected residents. A local school was shut down and a public housing complex was also evacuated after soil tests showed lead and arsenic contamination levels 228 times the amount the Environmental Protection Agency considers potentially hazardous to children. It was the first superfund site EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has visited -- making a trip there Wednesday -- and the agency said he was the first administrator to visit this particular site. Pruitt visited "to discuss cleanup and hear directly from East Chicago residents affected by contamination in their community," the agency said in a press release. At a press conference, local officials praised Pruitt for visiting the site. The community is what's a called a legacy contamination site. It was listed on the "National Priorities List" of the worst contaminated hazardous waste sites in the country in 2009. The site includes part of the former USS Lead facility along with nearby commercial, municipal and residential areas, including the West Calumet public housing complex. Barbara Bolling-Williams, state president of the Indiana branch of the NAACP, said she is cautiously optimistic following Pruitt's visit, but added that his visit comes with the threat of "a skinnier EPA budget, fewer regulations -- and rumors Chicago's regional EPA office could be shut down looms in the background." The Trump administration's proposed budget calls for a 31% cut to the budget, including cuts to the agency's environmental justice program. The program is intended to support poor, often minority communities with severe environmental challenges. One week ago, the local chapter of the NAACP said it invited Pruitt to a roundtable discussion on environmental justice, which happened Wednesday morning. In attendance were residents, NAACP national President Cornell Williams Brooks and community members. Pruitt skipped that event, and instead invited a group to a meeting of his own at a local school that was shut down as a result of the lead contamination in the community. Bolling-Williams, who was invited to Pruitt's meeting, said: "Pruitt listened to all of our concerns but he did not offer any solutions." She said her organization wants to see the EPA do more to protect the East Chicago community. The NAACP presented Pruitt with a list of demands, including a call for an executive order that would include a greater commitment to communities like East Chicago. "We need them to commit to adjusting cleanup plan for the site. Instead of digging up two feet of contaminated soil for disposal, digging up eight feet. We want that soil to be disposed of properly so as not to cause further contamination, we want continued testing of the soil and ground water in this area and a commitment to ensure the residents exposed to the lead get the physical and mental health care they need for the rest of their life. That includes financial help to make sure that happens. " EPA spokesman J.P. Freire told CNN in an email: "Forget about the politics. Administrator Pruitt was working for environmental justice by meeting with the real residents affected by lead contamination and by committing to get results." In its press release, the agency laid out the accomplishments of its cleanup effort under Pruitt: East Chicago is receiving $16.5 million in EPA State Revolving Fund (SRF) funding for drinking-water infrastructure upgrades. EPA, the state and the city are working together to coordinate lead service-line replacement with cleanup work to expedite completion of the work and minimize disruptions. EPA provided 54 homes with filters and bottled water while Superfund work was underway at those properties in Zones 2 and 3. This year, Indiana will distribute filters to all residents in Zones 2 and 3. The Natural Resources Defense Council told CNN that Pruitt has yet to respond to its request for more EPA assistance and oversight in the lead problem in East Chicago's drinking water. Those demands include: Oversight of East Chicago's ongoing attempts to improve its corrosion control treatment; expanded blood-lead level testing of children under age 7; bottled water and home water filtration systems to residents throughout the city and testing the city's drinking water to determine the extent of the contamination. During his visit, Pruitt provided brief comments at a press conference in East Chicago but quickly exited without answering questions from reporters. The Agency's press release quoted Pruitt saying: "I'm focused on getting EPA back to the basics of protecting human health and the environment, and one of my top priorities is delivering real results for the people of East Chicago.' Pruitt went on: "Since I was sworn in as administrator, funding has been secured for drinking water infrastructure upgrades in East Chicago, filters and bottled water have been provided to residents and cleanup of contaminated soil has resumed."	False
679	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-09-18	It can be summed up in one word: confusion.	They seem not to have read it.	Then came the election of Donald Trump.	On Sept. 3, 2016, President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China jointly reaffirmed their commitments to the Paris deal "offering a rare display of harmony," as the New York Times put it.	So, Tillerson's perception that the Paris accord is not good for China or the United States was not shared by the two nation's leaders.		Trump's Confusion Machine As international leaders gathered in New York for this week's meeting of the United Nations General Assembly, they got another taste of the Trump Administration's leadership style. It can be summed up in one word: confusion. Sometimes it appears to be a result of ineptitude; other times it appears to be tactical. Then came the election of Donald Trump. After months of intrigue about what he might do, Trump announced in June that the United States plans to withdraw from the accord "unless we can re-enter on terms that are more favorable to our country." It seemed that Trump left the door open to reversing his decision. Recent events have offered a good opportunity for Trump to do so. Steve Bannon, the senior advisor who reportedly pressed Trump to withdraw from the accord, has left the White House. Hurricanes Harvey and Irma showed with unprecedented fury that global warming is putting Americans in greater jeopardy by making storms more destructive. And the current convergence of world leaders on New York gives them another opportunity to lobby Trump to reverse his position. As last weekend began, the Wall Street Journal reported "The Trump administration is considering staying in the Paris agreement to fight climate change 'under the right conditions,' offering to re-engage in the international deal…" The White House shot down the story by responding that the president's intentions have not changed. It was the latest example of the bewilderment Trump has created about whether or not the world's second biggest source of climate-altering pollution plans to do anything about it. First, with his seemingly provisional withdrawal decision last June, Trump used one of his deal-making gambits. He announced an extreme position but hinted he was willing to negotiate. In reality, there is no deal to be made and no interest among other nations to reopen an agreement that took the world 20 years to achieve. It appears that Trump's real purpose was to please his base while blunting criticism with the hint that he might change his mind. Second, it is clear even now that Trump and his people do not understand the Paris accord. They seem not to have read it. It calls for voluntary commitments from nations to cut their greenhouse gas emissions. If Trump feels the climate action plan President Obama submitted under the Paris accord was somehow disadvantageous to the country, he could simply submit a new plan. Instead, Trump hopes to show that he is standing up to the world community on behalf of America's interests. Tillerson exhibited his lack of understanding when he said Sunday, "if you look at those targets and terms of the Paris climate accord, they were just really out of balance for the two largest economies." He presumably was talking about China and the United States, who are also the world's two largest carbon polluters. However, the commitments that China and the United States submitted under the Paris accord reflected a historic bilateral agreement that the two nations announced in November 2014. On Sept. 3, 2016, President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China jointly reaffirmed their commitments to the Paris deal "offering a rare display of harmony," as the New York Times put it. So, Tillerson's perception that the Paris accord is not good for China or the United States was not shared by the two nation's leaders. Nor, I assume, is it shared by the hundreds of businesses and investors who urged Trump to remain in the pact. Other history contradicts the idea that the United States signed onto an "out of balance" deal. In 1997, most nations signed the Kyoto Protocol, an agreement under which developed but not developing nations committed to reduce their carbon pollution. The premise was that the industrial economies were most responsible for the greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, and that developing countries needed to continue using fossil fuels for the immediate future to grow their economies. The U.S. Senate, whose "advice and consent" was necessary before President Clinton could ratify the Protocol, signaled that it would not concur. It approved a resolution saying that it would not consent to any agreement that did not also include greenhouse gas reductions by developing nations. As a result, President Clinton did not bother to submit the Protocol to the Senate and in March 2001, President Bush announced officially that the U.S. would not participate. Third, Trump's conditional willingness to reengage in international climate action is belied by the fact that he has laid waste to the federal government's ability to influence America's carbon pollution. The United States would return to the table with little or nothing to offer in regard to our own substantial emissions.	False
388	drudgereport	right_bias	2018-12-08	Thus, one well-worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live, where to live, and how to work—all of the good of the planet, of course—is the alarmist study, making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that they're supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president: Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	And it's these three things: wealth, growth and technology, which allows humans to thrive on planet Earth, not $240 per gallon fuel taxes imposed by an elite that cares not for the masses.	So how do climate activists get their way?	This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN, but it is far from sound science or even good economics.		Is America Next? The City of Lights, Paris, has been illuminated in recent days by cars set alight by thousands of protesting "Yellow Vests"—largely middle class people who earn their living by driving or who commute to get to work. The cause of their ire is a scheduled 25 cents-per-gallon increase in gas taxes, and about 10 cents on diesel, to fight climate change. French President Macron, deeply unpopular, just reversed course on the new green tax—Parisians are already paying about $7.06 per gallon for gasoline, almost half of that in taxes. If Paris streets burned over a proposed 25 cents per gallon climate change tax, imagine the global conflagration over a $49 per gallon tax. That's what a United Nations special climate report calls for in 12 years, with a carbon tax of $5,500 per ton—equal to $49 per gallon of gasoline or diesel. That's about 100 times today's average state and federal motor fuels tax. By 2100, the U.N. estimates that a carbon tax of $27,000 per ton is needed—$240 per gallon—to limit global warming to no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius. Of course, that isn't going to happen. The economic wreckage of such a punitive tax would plunge the global economy into a permanent depression—and that's assuming politicians could enact such huge tax increases over the will of their voters. Keep in mind that the unrest in France was triggered by a looming 25-cent hike, which is a little less than 10% more in taxes than French drivers already pay. To meet the $49 per gallon tax hike recommended by the U.N., fuel taxes in France would have to go up 17-fold. The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed. They don't earn enough to be part of the elite unconcerned with fuel taxes, but they work hard enough that they don't qualify for the generous welfare benefits handed out to the nation's poor and to newly arrived immigrants from Africa and the Middle East. Here in America, Republicans in Congress passed a resolution against carbon taxes over the summer while Democrats embraced the concept in their party platform. Some incoming members of the new Democratic majority in the House are calling to create a select committee to map out a "Green New Deal" that would move the U.S. toward using 100% renewable energy for the electric grid while guaranteeing jobs for everyone. In the meantime, opinion polls indicate that 54% of Americans do not believe global warming will cause major problems within their lifetimes. So how do climate activists get their way? Some openly talk of imposing authoritarian governance to override democratic institutions. Former NASA climate researcher James Hansen suggested in 2007 that "the democratic process does not work." Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of "deniers." Those who see climate change as a dire and urgent threat have some work to do to convince voters in the Western democracies to give up their way of life in exchange for unspecified benefits of a slightly less warm world—and that's assuming China, India and over a billion people in Africa can be convinced not to try to pull themselves out of poverty—something that may only be done with greater use of fossil fuels. Thus, one well-worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live, where to live, and how to work—all of the good of the planet, of course—is the alarmist study, making copious use of lies of omission and commission. An example of the former can be seen in the new National Climate Assessment. The report's first chapter lists recent natural disasters, citing this summer's deadly Carr Fire in California as an example. But while the report seeks to link wildfire to climate change, it glosses over the real reason fires have grown in intensity and size: the 30 years of increased environmental restrictions on logging, brush clearance and preventive burns that caused a massive and dangerous fuel buildup—a problem that was predicted years ago and has nothing to do with global warming. The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that they're supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president: Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg. Here we're told that the U.S. economy will take a 10% hit by 2100 unless we reduce our carbon emissions. Two problems, though: the authors assume the worst-case and least likely scenario, with average temperatures more than 14 degrees Fahrenheit hotter by 2100; and they derive two-thirds of their economic losses estimate by claiming a large amount of premature deaths due to the hotter temperatures. The latter claim is highly problematic as death rates in regions far hotter than in the U.S. aren't meaningfully different, when accounting for the standard of living. Why? People adapt rather easily. This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN, but it is far from sound science or even good economics. The bottom line is this: economic freedom—the kind you get with a large middle class—leads to prosperity, economic growth, and technological innovation. And it's these three things: wealth, growth and technology, which allows humans to thrive on planet Earth, not $240 per gallon fuel taxes imposed by an elite that cares not for the masses.	True
423	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-10-08	There is near-universal agreement that putting a price on carbon dioxide, likely through a tax, is key to scaling back emissions, in much the same way levies on tobacco and alcohol are meant to offset those products' societal costs.	Failing to do so would be cataclysmic.	'Sobering' New UN Report Challenges Republican Climate Hawks' Free-Market Dogma Kirsti McCluer / Reuters Golfers play in North Bonneville, Washington, last fall as the Eagle Creek wildfire burns.	The U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said the world must drastically cut greenhouse gas emissions to avoid climate disaster."	Jerry Taylor, a former climate denier who in recent years became the poster boy for Republican climate realism, said he sticks by a carbon tax as the best solution but believes keeping warming within 1.5 degrees is unrealistic at this point, regardless of policy."		'Sobering' New UN Report Challenges Republican Climate Hawks' Free-Market Dogma Kirsti McCluer / Reuters Golfers play in North Bonneville, Washington, last fall as the Eagle Creek wildfire burns. The U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said the world must drastically cut greenhouse gas emissions to avoid climate disaster." he only force that I know of on the planet that can deliver innovation as quickly as we need it is the free enterprise system," said former Rep. Bob Inglis (R-S.C.), now the executive director of RepublicEn, a group urging Republicans to support a carbon tax. The report, based on more than 6,000 scientific references, found that world governments have just 12 years to cut planet-warming gases 45 percent at a time when humanity's CO2 footprint is rapidly rising and fossil fuel emissions are hitting an all-time high. By 2050, emissions need to hit net zero. Failing to do so would be cataclysmic. The IPCC pegged the price of damage caused by 1.5 degrees of warming at $54 trillion ― a figure that soars to $69 trillion at 2 degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, of temperature rise. There is near-universal agreement that putting a price on carbon dioxide, likely through a tax, is key to scaling back emissions, in much the same way levies on tobacco and alcohol are meant to offset those products' societal costs. Last year Sens. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) and Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) and Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) and David Cicilline (D-R.I.) introduced companion carbon-tax bills in Congress. In July, Reps. Carlos Curbelo (R-Fla.) and Brian Fitzpatrick (R-Pa.) proposed a lower carbon tax, earning plaudits for breaking with the Republican orthodoxy calling the very basics of climate change science into question." t's totally unrealistic," said Jennifer Francis, a research professor at Rutgers University. "We're going to need to make a wide range of course corrections to have a hope of achieving 1.5 and also prepare for larger impacts than we're already experiencing." Andrew Dessler, a climate scientist at Texas A&M University, cast doubt on the possibility of halting human-caused temperature at the 1 degree Celsius average global increase the planet has already experienced. Though he said a "carbon tax high enough" could "reduce emissions arbitrarily fast," the result would be soaring energy prices "rather than what we want, which is a switch to renewables." Asked during an IPCC press conference on Sunday night if carbon pricing could radically overhaul the global economy in the next decade, two IPCC authors started to laugh. James Skea, a co-chair of an IPCC working group, said it was "one among that portfolio of instruments that can be used" but could not serve as a panacea.A number of insurgent left-wing Democrats running in the 2018 midterms, including star New York City congressional candidate Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, are coalescing around a so-called Green New Deal, a loose set of proposals to spend trillions in federal dollars on renewable energy projects, coastal fortifications and home weatherization retrofits. Polling released last month shows swelling support for a federal policy guaranteeing a high-wage job in a green industry to anyone who wants one. Last month California became the biggest state to pass a law requiring 100 percent clean electricity by 2045. In a surprise move, Gov. Jerry Brown (D) also signed an executive order mandating the changes' sweep extend beyond utilities to the entire economy, including vehicles, the nation's largest source of carbon pollution. Curbelo and Fitzpatrick did not respond to requests for comment Monday. Nor did the oil giant Exxon Mobil Corp., which spent decades financing a network of climate change misinformation before announcing its support for a carbon tax, or the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, a corporate consortium that advocates for what it calls "practical solutions" to climate change. But for some conservative climate hawks, the reality of the IPCC report hit home. Jerry Taylor, a former climate denier who in recent years became the poster boy for Republican climate realism, said he sticks by a carbon tax as the best solution but believes keeping warming within 1.5 degrees is unrealistic at this point, regardless of policy."  steep enough global-economy-wide price on carbon could do it, but that's not likely to happen," said Taylor, the president of the libertarian Niskanen Center. "Hence the 1.5 C target is aspirational, not functional." Over lunch at a conference last week, Flint staked out his opposition to the Obama administration's use of executive authority to regulate carbon dioxide emissions. A former Trump transition team official, he described himself as a "sherpa" for Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke's confirmation process. Now he says he's "trying to get politicians to catch up with the science." Asked where the line is between what critics said was the previous administration's federal overreach and attempting to stave off the worst of what the IPCC predicted, Flint went quiet for a while.	False
363	drudgereport	right_bias	2018-04-19	Forget the Golden State.	California has done more than any other state to counteract air pollution, the Lung Association said.	Overall, the report said about 133 million Americans — more than four of 10 — live with unhealthful levels of air pollution, placing them at risk for premature death and other serious health effects such as lung cancer, asthma attacks, cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm."	It's because the state would be far worse off without its strict laws on tailpipe pollution and eliminating coal-fired power plants.	The nation's cleanest cities are Bellingham, Wash.; Burlington, Vt.; Casper, Wyo.		California has 8 of 10 most polluted American cities... Forget the Golden State. California should be called the Smoggy State. Eight of the USA's 10 most-polluted cities, in terms of ozone pollution, are in California, according to the American Lung Association's annual "State of the Air" report, released Wednesday. The Los Angeles/Long Beach area took the dubious distinction of being the nation's most ozone-polluted city as it has for nearly the entire 19-year history of the report. Overall, the report said about 133 million Americans — more than four of 10 — live with unhealthful levels of air pollution, placing them at risk for premature death and other serious health effects such as lung cancer, asthma attacks, cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm." We still have a lot to do in this country to clean up air pollution," said Lyndsay Moseley Alexander, director of the Association's Healthy Air Campaign. The report looked at pollution levels from 2014 to 2016. Ozone pollution was worse overall in this report than it was in last year's report. Bakersfield, Calif., was in second place for ozone pollution. Other California cities on the list include Fresno, Sacramento and San Diego. The only non-California metro areas in the top 10 list were Phoenix and New York City. Of the 10 most-polluted cities, seven cities did worse in this year's report, including Los Angeles and the New York City metro area. More: President Trump directs EPA to ease air quality rules he says suffocates industry"Near record-setting heat from our changing climate has resulted in dangerous levels of ozone in many cities across the country, making ozone an urgent health threat for millions of Americans," Lung Association President and CEO Harold P. Wimmer said. Smog forms on warm, sunny days and is made worse from chemicals that exit vehicle tailpipes and from power plant and industrial smokestacks. Warmer temperatures make ozone more likely to form." This adds to the evidence that a changing climate makes it harder to reduce ozone pollution and protect human health," Alexander saidBakersfield took the top spot in a list of cities with another variety of air pollution — small particulate matter, aka soot. Increased heat, changes in climate patterns, drought and wildfires — many related to climate change — contributed to the high number of days with unhealthy particulate matter. Since California is known for its strict environmental regulations, why are so many cities from the state typically on this list? It's because the state would be far worse off without its strict laws on tailpipe pollution and eliminating coal-fired power plants. California has done more than any other state to counteract air pollution, the Lung Association said. With this report, the Lung Association also calls out Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for ongoing threats to the nation's air quality, including steps to roll back or weaken enforcement of the Clean Air Act. EPA administrator Scott Pruitt has taken many steps to roll back or put in loopholes to the Clean Air Act, Alexander said, adding that "the association is concerned and we will continue to fight for healthy air," she said. Some good news in the report was that particulate pollution "generally continued to improve in 2014-16," the report said. This was true for both short-term particulate pollution and for year-round particulate pollution. For year-round particle pollution, Fairbanks, Alaska, was the most-polluted city. The Lung Association also lists the nation's cleanest cities, meaning ones that experience no high ozone or high particulate pollution days. The nation's cleanest cities are Bellingham, Wash.; Burlington, Vt.; Casper, Wyo.; Honolulu; Melbourne, Fla.; and Wilmington, N.C.	False
387	drudgereport	right_bias	2018-03-24	Humans sleepwalking into mass extinction of species not seen since dinosaurs...	Co-author Sammy de Grave, head of research at the Oxford University Museum added:The study was published in the journal Communications Biology.	Diversity takes millions of years to evolve, but can be damaged in the blink of an eye.	Research Fellow Dr Katie Davis, an evolutionary palaeobiologist at the University of York explained:Understanding the processes that shaped the strikingly irregular distribution of species richness across the Tree of Life is a major research agenda.	Net rates of speciation therefore exceed rates of extinction, but the balance of these processes varies greatly, both between clades and throughout geological time.		Humans sleepwalking into mass extinction of species not seen since dinosaurs... Humans are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of species not seen since the demise of the dinosaurs, British scientists warned. Man-made global change is threatening the diversity of different creatures that have taken millennia to evolve to live in niche habitats. Creatures that have moved into delicate ecosystems such as coral reefs often live in symbiosis with others and are the slowest to recover their diversity if damaged. But global warming and rising sea levels threatened to wipe out many species that cannot adapt to change quickly enough "in a blink of an eye." In particular freshwater habitats are teeming with diverse birds and mammals but they are often form isolated pockets which are vulnerable to sudden change. Professor of Evolutionary Paleobiology Matthew Wills at the Milner Centre for Evolution at the University of Bath said:We are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of a magnitude unparalleled since the asteroid impact that wiped out the dinosaurs. Astonishingly, we know remarkably little about the physical and biological forces that shape patterns of diversity on a global scale. For example, why are there over a million species of insects but only 32 species in their immediate sister group, the little known remipedes? Diversity takes millions of years to evolve, but can be damaged in the blink of an eye. We are already losing diversity that has never even been documented, so it's vitally important to understand the mechanisms that drive evolution into new species. The scientists looked at how the humble caridean shrimp has evolved and diversified since it first appeared in the Lower Jurassic. There are now around 3,500 species worldwide living in salt and fresh water habitats and are a vital component of the marine food chain, and an important contribution to fisheries worldwide. Research Fellow Dr Katie Davis, an evolutionary palaeobiologist at the University of York explained:Understanding the processes that shaped the strikingly irregular distribution of species richness across the Tree of Life is a major research agenda. Changes in ecology may go some way to explain the often strongly asymmetrical fates of sister clades, and we test this in the caridean shrimps. There are, depending upon estimates, between two and 50 million extant species of animals (Metazoa), all derived from a single common ancestral species that lived some 650 million years ago. Net rates of speciation therefore exceed rates of extinction, but the balance of these processes varies greatly, both between clades and throughout geological time. The scientists examined the patterns of diversity change across the crustaceans's evolutionary tree. By time-calibrating the largest ever evolutionary tree for carideans against both fossil and molecular dates, it was possible to explore where rates of diversification sped up and slowed down over the last 200 million years. They found the shrimp have independently transitioned from marine to freshwater habitats repeatedly, creating much richer pockets of biodiversity. The relative isolation of lakes and rivers appear to increase the diversity of species in a similar way to Darwin's finches on island chains. But rising sea levels caused by climate change could put these pockets at risk, disrupting these freshwater distributions and leading to extinctions as a result. By contrast, many marine shrimp live in close symbiotic associations with a variety of other animals including corals and sponges, which appears to have slowed their diversification rate. Symbioses are most common in shallow reef settings: among the most diverse but notoriously delicately balanced and threatened marine ecosystems. The researchers said lower rates of diversification mean it will take longer for carideans to recover from the extinctions that are already inevitably underway. Co-author Sammy de Grave, head of research at the Oxford University Museum added:The study was published in the journal Communications Biology.	False
417	vox	left_bias	2018-10-26	Ann Carlson, a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles, said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests there's something there that piques the court's interest."	The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change, thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate.	The local governments are citing nuisance statutes and seeking money from oil companies to pay for damages caused by climate change, whereas the children's case is trying to force the government to enact policies to curb greenhouse gas emissions.	Now the case is back at the Supreme Court, and what happens next is unclear, including whether the other justices on the bench will weigh in.	Asked for comment, the Department of Justice pointed to comments made by Jeffrey Wood, a political appointee at the DOJ handling environmental cases, who spoke about the Juliana case at a law conference last week.		The Supreme Court is about to decide if the children's climate lawsuit can proceed One of the biggest legal battles over climate change is now in limbo pending a decision from the Supreme Court's chief justice, who last week took the odd step of halting the lawsuit to consider a stay. The court is expected to rule Friday on whether the case, which was expected to go to trial Monday, can proceed. The suit, Juliana v. US, also known as the children's climate lawsuit, was first filed in 2015 and now includes 21 plaintiffs between the ages of 11 and 22, including Sophie Kivlehan, 20, the granddaughter of the famed climate scientist James Hansen. The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change, thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate. As relief, they want the government to pursue policies to keep warming in check. The trial was supposed to begin at the United States District Court in Oregon on October 29. But last week, the defendant, the US government, asked for a stay of the case, arguing the costs of litigation would put an undue burden on it. Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts granted a temporary stay and halted discovery until Wednesday to allow the plaintiffs to respond. The district court then vacated the case pending a decision from the high court. Working over the weekend, the children and their lawyers filed a 103-page brief on Monday, "in hopes of receiving a decision from the Chief Justice before the week's end." Now the case is back at the Supreme Court, and what happens next is unclear, including whether the other justices on the bench will weigh in. Several legal analysts told Vox it is extremely unusual for the Supreme Court to step in to block a legal proceeding in a lower court. Appeals from the District Court in Oregon are almost always handled by the 9th Circuit, which has already declined to block the lawsuit. And one of the only other times Supreme Court has done something like this was also related to climate change. In 2016, the court stayed the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan to limit greenhouse gases from power plants, pending ongoing lawsuits from states suing to block the rule from going into effect. But then the children's lawsuit is an unusual case. The plaintiffs essentially are arguing that a safe climate is a civil right, so the implications for climate change policy are huge. Though the case is in uncharted legal territory, it has survived several legal challenges and motions to dismiss, and lower federal courts have allowed it to proceed. Ann Carlson, a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles, said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests there's something there that piques the court's interest." t's certainly a signal that the court is uncomfortable with the underlying legal theory of the Juliana case," Carlson said. The federal government, under Presidents Barack Obama and Donald Trump, has argued the case has no merit and repeatedly sought to have it dismissed. Asked for comment, the Department of Justice pointed to comments made by Jeffrey Wood, a political appointee at the DOJ handling environmental cases, who spoke about the Juliana case at a law conference last week. He said that "the purported constitutional right that they assert simply does not exist" and that the Juliana lawsuit "has no legal basis." In our view, the Oregon lawsuit is an unconstitutional attempt to use a single court to control the entire nation's energy and climate policy," Wood said, adding "the plaintiffs in Oregon are ignoring the fact that clean and responsible production and use of fossil fuels remains vital to the health and well-being of the American people." For climate activists old and young, the courts have become a last resort for pushing governments and businesses to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, especially with an executive branch that's still denying climate change exists and a gridlocked Congress. There are also several ongoing climate change lawsuits filed by cities, counties, and a state against oil companies, though the pivot points are different. The local governments are citing nuisance statutes and seeking money from oil companies to pay for damages caused by climate change, whereas the children's case is trying to force the government to enact policies to curb greenhouse gas emissions. But the prospects for the children's climate lawsuit to succeed appear dim, first because the courts tend to give wide latitude to the executive branch in these cases, and second because the Supreme Court's newest Justice Brett Kavanaugh is much more skeptical of environmental regulations than his predecessor." his is just the beginning of what we're likely to see from a Court that doesn't have Justice Kennedy on it anymore," Carlson said.	False
87	cnn	left_bias	2019-04-02	We're going to do what works."	We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future?"	And the idea that you're signing up for some type of agenda -- I don't want to ... send a signal that that's what I'm doing because I'm not doing that," DeSantis said .	DeSantis appointed Thomas Frazer , a biologist who has been director of the University of Florida's School of Natural Resources and Environment since 2012 and previously worked as acting director of the UF Water InstituteIn the new position , he will coordinate Florida's research, data and scientific work and make sure officials have the scientific analysis they need to tackle the state's environmental problems.	Frazer said.		Republican governor appoints Florida's first chief science officer (CNN) Republican Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis appointed the state's first chief science officer on Monday, marking what he called the state's "commitment to science-based solutions." DeSantis appointed Thomas Frazer , a biologist who has been director of the University of Florida's School of Natural Resources and Environment since 2012 and previously worked as acting director of the UF Water InstituteIn the new position , he will coordinate Florida's research, data and scientific work and make sure officials have the scientific analysis they need to tackle the state's environmental problems. Frazer's research has looked at pollution's effects on water. He's also worked on research involving climate change. He's been on the faculty advisory committee with the UF Climate Institute and served as chairman of the Climate Science Faculty Committee. Climate change will be a part of his office's mission." We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future?" Frazer said. Asked whether he thought climate change was a threat to Florida, DeSantis said the issue was "politicized" but noted that he considers sea-level rise a serious threat." My environmental policy is just to do things that benefit Floridians. And the idea that you're signing up for some type of agenda -- I don't want to ... send a signal that that's what I'm doing because I'm not doing that," DeSantis said . "This is what we're going to do. We're going to do what works." DeSantis said the appointment keeps with his promise to make "sound science" a Florida priority." As one of Florida's leading environmental researchers, Dr. Frazer understands the unique water issues facing our state and the actions we must take to solve them," he said Monday. "Since day one, my administration has been laser focused on addressing our pressing environmental challenges." On January 10, DeSantis signed an Executive Order that pledged to secure $2.5 billion over the next four years to restore the Everglades. It created the Blue-Green Algae Task Force and promised to work with local communities to invest in green infrastructure. It also created the chief science officer position. Frazer will have his work cut out for him. In July, Scott declared a state of emergency for several counties to help local governments deal with an unprecedented toxic algal bloom that killed thousands of marine animals, including dolphins and manatees. The bloom, which affected more than 100 miles of Florida shoreline, also sent people to the doctor with respiratory problems and eye issues. below sea level by 2100, Sea level rise alone is projected to outpace the global average for Southeast Florida. The region could see nearly a foot more of water in the short term. There's also a chance that more than $346 billion in property value will bebelow sea level by 2100, studies showFrazer said he's honored by the appointment." Our environment and waterways make Florida unique," he said. "I look forward to working with the governor and the Department of Environmental Protection on ways we can use sound science and research to improve our state's water quality and protect the environment."	False
705	CNN	left_bias	2017-04-11	twitter.	The question is, what are we going to do about it and at what cost?"	Palm Beach County Commissioner Steven Abrams downplayed the political aspects of the Senate committee hearing in a statement Friday.	pic.	"What won't solve the problem is putting our heads in the Florida sand while streets and basements flood around us," she said in a statement.		Trump denies climate change, but could one day be its victim Not that surprising, except this was a Senate committee field hearing challenging the position shared by President Donald Trump and many Republicans in Congress that climate change isn't real. The site of the hearing -- just four miles from Trump's weekend getaway in Palm Beach -- was clearly intended to send a signal: Much of Florida's coastline could one day be underwater, including some of the President's own prized properties." Today we sit at ground zero of the impacts of climate change in the US," Florida Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson said. "And while there are still some who continue to deny climate change is real, South Florida offers proof that it is real and it's an issue we're going to be grappling with for decades to come." Data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration show that Trump's Mar-a-Lago Club and his condominiums in Hollywood, Florida, would be partially submerged if sea level rose three feet by the end of the century. Already, Hollywood experiences more incidents of tidal flooding. NOAA itself, in a recent report, raised the specter of millions of coastal residents in the United States -- especially along the low-lying East Coast -- being displaced by coastal flooding. The agency outlined how sea levels could rise by at least four to five feet by century's end, engulfing numerous coastal communities or making flooding so frequent as to render them uninhabitable. "What we thought was extremely rare, large floods invading coastal cities on a regular basis, is becoming more and more probable," said William Sweet, an oceanographer at NOAA and the report's lead author. "The gap between our infrastructure and the global sea level is narrowing," A recent study published in Nature concluded that with the acceleration of ice melt in Antarctica, sea levels could rise to six feet by 2100. At that point, Trump's golf course at Doral, Florida, and several properties at Sunny Isles Beach would also be under water. The fact that Trump's own properties are vulnerable to the impact of climate change is paradoxical, given that the EPA is poised to undo President Barack Obama's plan to cut greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants. In a now infamous 2012 tweet, Trump claimed that "global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing non-competitive." The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 6, 2012 The Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee hearing was conducted by Nelson, the panel's ranking member, but it was authorized by Republican Sen. John Thune of South Dakota, the committee's chairman, who has acknowledged human activity is responsible for climate change. Climate change is not just a threat to our planet's future - it's a threat to our communities today. Thanks @SenBillNelson for this hearing. pic. twitter. com/ixO6VhRhrO — Rep. Ted Deutch (@RepTedDeutch) April 10, 2017 Thune told Fox News anchor Chris Wallace in a 2014 interview, for example, "Well, look, climate change is occurring, it's always occurring, Chris. There are a number of factors that contribute to that, including human activity. The question is, what are we going to do about it and at what cost?" Trump has proposed slashing the EPA budget by a third and eliminating many climate-change programs entirely. But, when it comes to his own property in Ireland, a golf course and resort in the small town of Doonbeg, the President took a more proactive approach. He proposed to build a wall to fight coastal erosion by the course's sand dunes, which eroded after heavy storms in 2014. After several attempts to gain approval, the President refiled an application in December 2016 and is still waiting to get an authorization from the local county council. For many coastal communities, the problems have already begun. Flooding and high winds are more frequent, said Sweet, the NOAA oceanographer. Hurricane Sandy broke through the sea walls of several homes near Mar-a-Lago in 2012, and Palm Beach County had to restore more than 20 acres of eroded seashore. Miami, meanwhile, is investing millions of dollars to raise the level of its properties, its roads and water systems as protection against flooding. Other cities like Norfolk, Virginia, and Charleston, South Carolina that are at risk of extreme flooding, are also trying to deal with the issue. Christina DeConcini, director of government affairs for the environmental group World Resources Institute, said the US needs a "fact-based approach for how to address this clear and present danger to America's infrastructure, homes and businesses. "What won't solve the problem is putting our heads in the Florida sand while streets and basements flood around us," she said in a statement. Palm Beach County Commissioner Steven Abrams downplayed the political aspects of the Senate committee hearing in a statement Friday. "Sea level rise and coastal flooding driven by climate change pose real, significant risks to our residents and should not be politicized,'' he said.	False
438	vox	left_bias	2018-09-21	)However, environmental activists and some lawmakers were appalled by the statement.	"[There's] rich material here to look into his behavior and his fitness for continued service in the office."	inke is one the most ethically challenged members of the Cabinet and maybe one of the most ethically challenged secretaries of the Interior we've had in living memory," Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA), who could chair the House Oversight Government Operations Subcommittee if Democrats win in November, told Politico this week.	This means conservation, preserving culture, and facilitating recreation.	However, it does not mean that the agency needs to advance the fossil fuel industry's interests, certainly not at the expense of the environment.		Ryan Zinke to the oil and gas industry: "Our government should work for you" Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke let the mask slip this week, turning the subtext of his term in office backing fossil fuels into the headline as he spoke to a friendly audience. On Tuesday, Zinke gave the keynote address at the Louisiana Oil and Gas Association's fall meeting in Lafayette, Louisiana. He told the conference over lunch "our government should work for you," according to organizers:You can debate what Zinke meant by "work for you," but many heard it as a pledge of allegiance to the industry. And according to the Louisiana Oil and Gas Association, the industry members in the room were thrilled with the pledge, giving Zinke a standing ovation. (An organizer told me none of the speeches at the event were recorded.)However, environmental activists and some lawmakers were appalled by the statement. And then that evening, Zinke's official Twitter account went into damage control mode, implying the message was meant for a broader audience rather than just the industries he's supposed to regulate. But Zinke has said pretty much the same thing before. In March, he told an energy industry conference: "Interior should not be in the business of being an adversary. We should be in the business of being a partner." For the record, the Interior Department's job is to manage about 75 percent of federal public land, which amounts to about one-fifth of the total area of the United States. This means conservation, preserving culture, and facilitating recreation. It also entails leasing rights to mining, drilling, grazing, and logging. However, it does not mean that the agency needs to advance the fossil fuel industry's interests, certainly not at the expense of the environment. But the Interior Department under Zinke has been pushing much harder to open up public lands to private companies while drastically rolling back its environmental responsibilities." ur mandate is multiple-use of public lands, and multiple-use also includes the development of natural resources as we seek to leverage American energy for American strength," Zinke wrote in the department's 2018-'22 strategic plan. One place we've seen Zinke pick sides is in his response to California's record wildfires. Rather than acknowledging the role of climate change in increasing fire risks, he blamed "environmental terrorist groups" while calling for more private logging on public lands. Zinke's words have been loud, but his actions have been even louder. Under Zinke, we've seen the largest rollback of federal land protections in US history. He also opened nearly all US coastal waters to offshore oil and gas drilling, preparing for the largest lease sale in US history. The National Park Service, which is part of the Interior Department, proposed more than doubling national park entrance fees before settling on increases of $5 to $10. The Bureau of Land Management, also part of the Interior Department, announced this week it was revising its rules on methane emissions from gas drilling on public lands. Interior is also pushing for more roads in wilderness areas, dialing back conservation plans for wildlife, and selling leases for Arctic oil and gas drilling. The agency canceled a study looking into the health impacts of coal mining and dismissed violations committed by coal companies. Taken together, it's pretty clear who Zinke is working for. However, the Trump administration has the odd habit of stumbling over itself. President Donald Trump's trade war is already threatening to undo gains for the fossil fuel industry as China readies tariffs on US energy. Zinke himself tendencies exhibited by former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt that have invited scrutiny from lawmakers. He's opaque with his schedule, obscuring his dealings with the energy industry. He took a $12,000 flight on an oil executive's charter plane. He was involved in a land deal with the chair of Halliburton, which may have violated conflict of interest rules. The Government Accountability Office had to end a probe in June into whether Zinke threatened Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) over her vote on Obamacare because the Interior Department didn't cooperate. He also has his office fly a secretarial flag when he's in the building and minted his own challenge coin. With Pruitt no longer sucking the oxygen out of the room, congressional Democrats are now eyeing Zinke and have promised more investigations of his conduct should they take control of the House in the fall." inke is one the most ethically challenged members of the Cabinet and maybe one of the most ethically challenged secretaries of the Interior we've had in living memory," Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA), who could chair the House Oversight Government Operations Subcommittee if Democrats win in November, told Politico this week. "[There's] rich material here to look into his behavior and his fitness for continued service in the office."	False
400	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-11-19	It may suggest there's been an alignment of the stars."	e helped popularize things like Medicare for All, a living wage and a lot of other fights he's taken up," said Varshini Prakash, the co-founder of Sunrise Movement.	Activists, freshly galvanized by the hellscape images of California's deadliest wildfire, seem primed for action, and the party's progressive wing has signaled a new willingness to force a more serious debate over an issue that's remained stagnant in the House for much of the past decade."	"If you think of Bernie, you'd think he'd be talking about inequality or civil rights.	In 2017, the influential Sunday morning talk shows on ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox News aired a combined 260 minutes of climate coverage, 79 percent of which focused exclusively on President Donald Trump's personal beliefs on science and his decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement.		Bernie Sanders, Stoking Democratic Uproar Over Global Warming, Sets A Climate Town Hall ASSOCIATED PRESS Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) is hosting a livestreamed summit on climate change next month, intensifying pressure on the new Congress and TV networks to devote attention to the crisis." e need millions of people all over this country to stand up and demand fundamental changes in our energy policy in order to protect our kids and our grandchildren and the planet," Sanders told HuffPost by phone. "The good news is the American people are beginning to stand up and fight back." The event bolsters Sanders, a likely contender for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination, as the most serious candidate on climate change, offering a far more comprehensive response than rival progressive Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), who staked out a climate policy based on a bill to force public companies to disclose financial risk from warming or regulations to curb emissions. The summit, which took months to plan, will take place less than a month after Rep.-elect Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) propelled talk of a so-called Green New Deal into the Democratic mainstream, giving play for the first time to the sort of federal response to climate change scientists say is necessary to fully meet the scale of the crisis. In October, the United Nations concluded world governments must halve emissions over the next 12 years or risk catastrophic warming with $54 trillion in damage." hat we are seeing is a growing consciousness," Sanders said. "The horrors that we've seen in California in the largest forest fire that that state has ever experienced ― this is not going to be an anomaly unless we begin the long, hard struggle to transform our energy system." Climate remains a low priority for most voters. Just 38 percent of registered voters said candidates' positions on global warming would be "very important" to their voting decisions, according to a Yale Program On Climate Change Communication survey published in May. Rising temperatures ranked 15th of 28 issues voters ranked in the questionnaire. In the lead up to the 2018 midterm elections, the fossil fuel industry spent $100 million to crush pro-climate ballot measures across the West, and to prop up candidates who supported increased oil and gas extraction. Yet that base of climate hawks helped elect a cadre of Democrats whose urgent visions for climate action earned plaudits from a spectrum ranging from mainstream environmental groups to so-called eco-socialists. And a new majority of Democratic state attorneys general are facing growing pressure to file lawsuits over climate damages. Activists, freshly galvanized by the hellscape images of California's deadliest wildfire, seem primed for action, and the party's progressive wing has signaled a new willingness to force a more serious debate over an issue that's remained stagnant in the House for much of the past decade." he fact that [climate change] is that high among the base of one of our two major political parties is remarkable, because that was not the case even five years ago," said Anthony Leiserowitz, a senior research scientist and Yale's climate program director. "If you think of Bernie, you'd think he'd be talking about inequality or civil rights. There's a whole host of progressive issues, yet this is the one he's leading with. It may suggest there's been an alignment of the stars." Last week, youth activists with the grassroots climate group Sunrise Movement staged sit-ins in the offices of House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Rep. Frank Pallone (D-N.J.), the likely next chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, who opposed the creation of a select committee on a Green New Deal. The horrors that we've seen in California in the largest forest fire that that state has ever experienced ― this is not going to be an anomaly unless we being the long hard struggle to transform our energy system." e helped popularize things like Medicare for All, a living wage and a lot of other fights he's taken up," said Varshini Prakash, the co-founder of Sunrise Movement. "I hope he pushes for a Green New Deal and helps really add fuel to the fire that's been lit under politicians and the public over the past week." Sanders stopped short of endorsing the Green New Deal. But in April 2017, he co-sponsored legislation to move the United States to 100-percent clean energy by 2050. The bill included $7 billion in targeted infrastructure and environmental investments in fossil-fuel communities, and called for union labor protections for workers on federally backed green jobs. In November 2017, Sanders introduced a bill to spend $146 billion rebuilding storm-ravaged Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands with renewable energy. Seventy-one percent of major, televised debates in the 2018 midterm elections ignored the issue completely. Only four of the 107 segments ABC, CBS and NBC aired from Nov. 8 to Nov. 13 on the deadly wildfires scorching California this month discussed climate change. In 2017, the influential Sunday morning talk shows on ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox News aired a combined 260 minutes of climate coverage, 79 percent of which focused exclusively on President Donald Trump's personal beliefs on science and his decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement.	False
847	RT	questionable_source	2017-08-09	Plaintiffs argued that as far back as 1984, McClellan had burn and burial pits, trenches and unlined ponds and ditches contaminated with chemicals."	T]hey knew or should have known that this harmful compound would reach groundwater, pollute drinking supplies, render drinking water unusuable and unsafe, and threaten the public health and welfare," stated the complaint, which claims an underground storage tank "likely held" the chemical.	At contention is whether the cancer-causing chemical hexavalent chromium, or chromium 6, came from the base, which was designated a federal Superfund site in 1987 for 326 contaminated sites identified for cleanup."	hrome 6 is a highly toxic compound and it shouldn't be in the water," Victor Sher, a San Francisco environmental attorney representing the plaintiffs, said Tuesday."	Rio Linda Elverta's claim seeks more than $289 million in damages."		California districts sue US govt for $1.4bn over water contamination from military base Two water districts in Sacramento, California are suing the US government for nearly one and a half billion dollars for groundwater cleanup. Plaintiffs claim heavy metals used by aircraft maintenance crews at the old McClellan Air Force Base have contaminated over 300 sites. The lawsuits named the US Air Force and 10 major firms involved in supplying chromium products and chemicals to the base, and was filed by the Sacramento Suburban Water District and the Rio Linda Elverta Community Water District, according to the Sacramento Bee. At contention is whether the cancer-causing chemical hexavalent chromium, or chromium 6, came from the base, which was designated a federal Superfund site in 1987 for 326 contaminated sites identified for cleanup." T]hey knew or should have known that this harmful compound would reach groundwater, pollute drinking supplies, render drinking water unusuable and unsafe, and threaten the public health and welfare," stated the complaint, which claims an underground storage tank "likely held" the chemical. The lawsuits demands more than $1.4 billion to clean up the polluted wells, install treatment equipment and replace wells that have been decommissioned for being polluted with chromium 6." acramento Suburban seeks to recover the substantial costs necessary to protect the public and restore its damaged drinking water supply," the water district's lawsuit, filed in federal court in Sacramento says, as part of its claim seeking $1.1 billion in damages. Rio Linda Elverta's claim seeks more than $289 million in damages." hrome 6 is a highly toxic compound and it shouldn't be in the water," Victor Sher, a San Francisco environmental attorney representing the plaintiffs, said Tuesday." ater districts are constantly balancing risks against cost," he said, adding, "They're committed to delivering water that is as free as possible of contaminants, but doing so is expensive." Plaintiffs argued that as far back as 1984, McClellan had burn and burial pits, trenches and unlined ponds and ditches contaminated with chemicals." C]ontaminated with plating wastes, solvents, acids, waste oils, paint thinners, strippers and sludges and other hazardous compounds," the lawsuits stated. Plaintiffs argue that the chemicals have been found in groundwater under the base as high as 840 parts per billion, six times higher than levels that decrease away from the air base. The state set a maximum concentration for chromium 6 as 10 parts per billion in 2014. The Air Force denied Rio Linda Elverta's claim in a May 9 letter before the district sued in federal court on June 30. The Air Force had consistently denied responsibility for polluting the groundwater around the base, which operated from 1936 through 2001, before being converted to a business park. In addition to the Air Force, the water district lawsuits name 10 firms they say were associated with providing chemicals to the base: Elementis Chromium Inc., Occidental Chemical Corp., Honeywell Inc., BASF Corp., PPG Inc., E.I. Du Pont De Nemours and Co., Luxfer Holdings PLC, Sigma-Aldrich Corp. and Dow Chemical Co. Officials with Sacramento Suburban, which serves 175,000 customers just east of the old base, and Rio Linda Elverta, which serves about 15,000 customers to the west of the base, say the water they are currently providing is safe.A 2016 Harvard study of some 36,000 EPA water samples taken from 2013 to 2015 at industrial sites, military fire training locations, airports and wastewater treatments plants contained levels of perfluoroalkyl substances (PFASs), or perfluorinated chemicals, that go beyond what is considered safe by the federal government. Researchers determined that drinking water for 6 million in the US is at or beyond the EPA safety threshold for PFAS levels. Xindi Hu, the study's lead author, warned that "the actual number of people exposed may be even higher than our study found, because government data for levels of these compounds in drinking water is lacking for almost a third of the U.S. population—about 100 million people."	False
49	foxnews	right_bias	2019-11-04	Others, however, see America backing out of the international pact to limit greenhouse gas emissions as an abdication of global leadership and denial of basic climate science."	"The challenge of averting dangerous and irreversible climate change and massive coastal inundation, devastating floods and droughts, is that much more an uphill climb with Trump's pullout from the Paris agreement."	We even turn a blind eye to the fact that China lied about its carbon emissions when it first came to the table with its pledge last year."	"Now we find ourselves celebrating an agreement where the world's largest carbon emitter, China, is permitted to increase their emissions until 2025 and to continue bringing a coal-fired power plant online every 10 days.	Our results speak for themselves," he wrote.		United States begins process of withdrawing from Paris climate deal The United States submitted a formal notification that it will withdraw from the Paris climate agreement, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced Monday, a move that has been widely expected since President Trump announced his intention to do so in 2017. The climate agreement, which went into force Nov. 4, 2016, committed countries that signed the measure to take certain voluntary steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The agreement was not legally enforceable and countries set their own emissions targets. The accord banned countries from announcing their intent to withdraw in its first three years, meaning Monday was the first day the U.S. was allowed to submit its intent to leave the agreement since it went into force in 2016." President Trump made the decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement because of the unfair economic burden imposed on American workers, businesses, and taxpayers by U.S. pledges made under the Agreement," Pompeo said in a statement. "The United States has reduced all types of emissions, even as we grow our economy and ensure our citizens' access to affordable energy." LEONARDO DICAPRIO PRAISES GRETA THUNBERG AS 'A LEADER OF OUR TIME'Trump has previously said that the Paris climate agreement harms the U.S. economy and would hurt American jobs if left to stand." Compliance with the terms of the Paris accord and the onerous energy restrictions it has placed on the United States could cost America as much as 2.7 million lost jobs by 2025 according to the National Economic Research Associates," Trump said in the Rose Garden in 2017 when he announced plans to remove the U.S. from the accord. "This includes 440,000 fewer manufacturing jobs — not what we need — believe me, this is not what we need — including automobile jobs, and the further decimation of vital American industries on which countless communities rely. They rely for so much, and we would be giving them so little." Some opponents of the agreement have noted that countries such as Russia and China were not affected as significantly by the accord as the United States and pointed out the unencouraging results of the Kyoto Protocol, raising questions about whether the Paris agreement would reduce global greenhouse gas emissions at all. GRETA THUNBERG TURNS DOWN ENVIRONMENTAL PRIZE, SAYS 'CLIMATE MOVEMENT DOES NOT NEED ANY MORE AWARDS'"Half of the countries that were legally bound to the Kyoto Protocol treaty failed to adhere to their pledges, and the host country of Japan even increased their carbon emissions," Sen. Jim Inhofe, R-Okla., said as the Paris climate agreement was being debated in 2016. "Now we find ourselves celebrating an agreement where the world's largest carbon emitter, China, is permitted to increase their emissions until 2025 and to continue bringing a coal-fired power plant online every 10 days. We even turn a blind eye to the fact that China lied about its carbon emissions when it first came to the table with its pledge last year." Others, however, see America backing out of the international pact to limit greenhouse gas emissions as an abdication of global leadership and denial of basic climate science." By withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement to double-down on a coal & fossil fuel energy agenda, Trump has engaged in a unilateral disarmament in the economic arms race that is the transition to clean energy," said Michael Mann, a climate scientist and professor at Penn State University. "The challenge of averting dangerous and irreversible climate change and massive coastal inundation, devastating floods and droughts, is that much more an uphill climb with Trump's pullout from the Paris agreement." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPIn his statement Monday, however, Pompeo maintained that the United States was on the right track both economically and environmentally." Our results speak for themselves," he wrote. "U.S. emissions of criteria air pollutants that impact human health and the environment declined by 74 percent between 1970 and 2018. U.S. net greenhouse gas emissions dropped 13 percent from 2005-2017, even as our economy grew over 19 percent."	False
868	Bipartisan Report	questionable_source	2017-04-02	And the question I have is, what if you're wrong?	Whether or not that's actually true remains to be seen.	"Unable to give a straight answer, Pruitt first admitted that human activity does contribute to the current "warming trend."	After listing this information, Wallace then asked, "Mr. Pruitt, are we supposed to believe that's all a coincidence?	Pruitt was pretty steadfast in his position then; however, on Sunday, he was forced to entertain the possibility that he might be wrong during an interview with Fox News's Chris Wallace.		Top Trump Cabinet Pick Went On 'Fox News Sunday' – It Was A Disaster (VIDEO) Last month, during an episode of CNBC's Squawk Box, Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, said that he did not consider carbon emissions to be a "primary contributor" to global warming. Pruitt was pretty steadfast in his position then; however, on Sunday, he was forced to entertain the possibility that he might be wrong during an interview with Fox News's Chris Wallace. After referencing Pruitt's statement from last month, Wallace said that there are "all kinds of studies" that contradict him. The Fox News Sunday anchor went on to reference a report from the U.N. that says it is 95 percent likely that human activity has caused the majority of the warming that has taken place since the mid-20th century. The report also determines that there is "more carbon dioxide now than in the last 400,000 years" and that 2015 and 2016 were the two hottest years on record. After listing this information, Wallace then asked, "Mr. Pruitt, are we supposed to believe that's all a coincidence?"Unable to give a straight answer, Pruitt first admitted that human activity does contribute to the current "warming trend." He then quickly moved on to accusing President Obama of "reimagining authority" with his clean power plan and praised Trump's recent executive order undoing environmental regulations that Obama put in place. Wallace quickly called Pruitt out on his inability to answer the question, saying, "Sir, you're sugar coating what you have said."'You said there that you would not agree that carbon CO2 is a primary contributor to global warming. And the question I have is, what if you're wrong? What if, in fact, the Earth is warming, what if it is causing dramatic climate change and that we as humans through carbon emissions are contributing to it?'Backed into a corner, Pruitt conceded that CO2 does contribute to global warming, although he followed up this concession by saying, "The issue is how much we contribute to it from a human activity perspective and what can be done about it from a process perspective." Wallace responded by asking, "But don't you think the fact that we have these coal power plants belching carbon emissions into the air, you don't think that plays a role?"Realizing that he wasn't going to get anywhere with Pruitt on that particular issue, Wallace switched gears slightly to ask a final question about the Trump administration's proposed cuts to the EPA. Once again, Pruitt took the question as an opportunity to criticize the Obama administration, saying that in the past there has been a "lack of commitment to state partnership." When Wallace asked him if he was sure that the states would pick up the slack, Pruitt said that he had met with several governors who had confirmed that they would. Whether or not that's actually true remains to be seen. Watch the interview below, via YouTube. Featured image is a screenshot from the video.	False
693	Politicus USA	left_bias	2017-09-08	[L1N1KU0UP]	In a diplomatic cable that Reuters obtained last month, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said U.S. diplomats should sidestep questions from foreign governments on how the United States plans re-engage in the global Paris climate agreement.	Defying Trump, Senate panel approves funding for U.N. climate body WASHINGTON (Reuters) – The U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee passed a spending bill on Thursday evening that includes $10 million to help fund the United Nations' climate change body that oversees the Paris Climate Agreement, despite President Donald Trump's decision to stop funding it.	The amendment passed 16-14.	Republican Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lamar Alexander of Tennessee voted in favor, as did all committee Democrats except for West Virginia's Joe Manchin.		Defying Trump, Senate panel approves funding for U.N. climate body WASHINGTON (Reuters) – The U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee passed a spending bill on Thursday evening that includes $10 million to help fund the United Nations' climate change body that oversees the Paris Climate Agreement, despite President Donald Trump's decision to stop funding it. The 30-member Senate panel, which allocates federal funds to various government agencies and organizations, approved a $51 billion spending bill for the State Department and foreign operations, which included an amendment to continue funding the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change as well as the scientific body the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The amendment passed even though the 2018 budget proposal that Trump, a Republican, introduced earlier this year eliminated support of any mechanism to finance climate change projects in developing countries and organizations. The United States is still a party to the 1992 UNFCCC, which oversees the Paris agreement, although Trump announced in June that he would withdraw the nation from the global climate pact and cease funding the Green Climate Fund, which supports clean energy and climate adaptation projects in vulnerable countries. The United States has usually contributed to around 20 percent of the UNFCCC budget. Democratic Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon, the amendment's author, said on Twitter on Thursday: "Despite @RealDonaldTrump's dangerous #ParisAgreement decision & unwillingness to act, we can & will fight back to combat #climatedisruption." The amendment passed 16-14. Republican Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lamar Alexander of Tennessee voted in favor, as did all committee Democrats except for West Virginia's Joe Manchin. Although the United States announced it would no longer be a party to the Paris Climate Agreement, a pact that nearly 200 countries approved in 2015 to combat global warming, it has said it will continue to observe the ongoing negotiations. In a diplomatic cable that Reuters obtained last month, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said U.S. diplomats should sidestep questions from foreign governments on how the United States plans re-engage in the global Paris climate agreement. The cable also said diplomats should make clear that the United States wants to help other countries use fossil fuels, which have been linked to global warming. [L1N1KU0UP]	False
675	CNN	left_bias	2017-08-02	I'm just not seeing it."	"Arguments about science aren't necessarily going to be of any comfort to you," Gore said.	The town hall featured people across the country who challenged Gore on the issue or asked his thoughts.	But Gore's -- and Ivanka's -- influence clearly was not enough.	"But I was gratified when the next day the entire rest of the world doubled down on the commitment to meet the terms of the Paris Agreement, and then in this country, so many governors and mayors and business leaders said, 'We're still in.		Al Gore presses on with climate change action in the Trump era "I actually did feel there was a real chance that he might come to his senses and stay in the Paris Agreement," said Gore, who has spent years in pursuit of action on climate change and on Tuesday joined CNN for a town hall, moderated by Anderson Cooper. Gore met with Trump after the 2016 election at the invitation of Ivanka Trump, and he spoke again with the President by phone in early May. But Gore's -- and Ivanka's -- influence clearly was not enough. After some delay, Trump announced in the Rose Garden in June that he intended to pull the United States out of the climate agreement. Gore declined to get into the details of his private conversations with Trump, but said those conversations had left him with "reason to believe" Trump would keep the United States in the agreement, but added that thankfully his worst fears about the withdrawal were not realized."I was worried that other countries might use it as an excuse to pull out themselves," Gore said. "But I was gratified when the next day the entire rest of the world doubled down on the commitment to meet the terms of the Paris Agreement, and then in this country, so many governors and mayors and business leaders said, 'We're still in.'"Gore said that even with Trump's decision, the United States could still manage to meet its own commitments under the Paris Agreement. The town hall featured people across the country who challenged Gore on the issue or asked his thoughts. Mayor James Eskridge of Tangier Island, Virginia, said his home town needed a sea wall to fight erosion, but claimed sea-level rise was not affecting them. "I'm not a scientist, but I'm a keen observer," Eskridge said. "And if sea level rise is occurring, why am I not seeing signs of it?" Earth to warm 2 degrees Celsius by the end of this century, studies say Gore said he was aware of the town's situation, and said the town was losing ground to rising seas. Tangier Island gained national prominence after Trump called Eskridge in response to a CNN piece on the town. "Arguments about science aren't necessarily going to be of any comfort to you," Gore said. "Won't necessarily do you any good for me to tell you that the scientists do say the sea level is rising in the Chesapeake Bay, and that you've lost about two-thirds of your island already." Eskridge stood by his claim, saying, "If I see sea-level rise occurring, I'll shout it from the house top. ... I'm just not seeing it." Gore said it was hard to translate what scientists said into something readily observable and believable. "I try every day to figure out ways to do that," he said. Gore warned there could be visible signs of a changing climate, including stronger hurricanes due to rising ocean temperatures. "As the oceans get warmer, these ocean based storms get a lot stronger," he said. "There may not be more hurricanes, but the ones that do come are on average likely to be much stronger." However, Gore insisted that there is still time to act, despite challenges that may lie ahead "in adapting to what we can't avoid." "We still have the ability to slow it down. We have the ability to prevent even worse sea level rise and and even worse catastrophes that are also caused by the climate crisis," Gore said.	False
491	usatoday	left_center_bias	2018-11-02	Lawyers for Our Children's Trust have argued that government policies have deprived the children of their "constitutional rights to life, liberty, and property, to dignity, to personal security, to a stable climate system capable of sustaining human lives and liberties."	Whether those claims should be handled in court "presents substantial grounds for difference of opinion," the court said then.	ourts have an obligation not to overstep the bounds of their jurisdiction, but they have an equally important duty to fulfill their role as a check on any unconstitutional actions of the other branches of government," she said last month in denying the government's effort to stall or dismiss the trial.	Constitution."	The action keeps alive, at least for now, an unusual lawsuit begun in 2015 to force a change in federal environmental policy by declaring a "climate system capable of sustaining human life" a civil right.		Supreme Court won&apos;t halt unusual climate change lawsuit brought by children on behalf of &apos;future generations&apos; WASHINGTON – The Supreme Court refused the Trump administration's request Friday to block 21 young people from putting a warming planet on trial in Eugene, Ore. The action keeps alive, at least for now, an unusual lawsuit begun in 2015 to force a change in federal environmental policy by declaring a "climate system capable of sustaining human life" a civil right. The lawsuit was brought on behalf of children now ages 11-22, as well as future generations. But while refusing to halt the trial, the justices indicated that the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit could do so if the Justice Department asks. That court has refused to intervene in the past. Associate Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch dissented, presumably because they were prepared to stop the trial now. The justices had expressed misgivings about the lawsuit in July, when they refused to stop the legal process but said the breadth of the claims was "striking." Whether those claims should be handled in court "presents substantial grounds for difference of opinion," the court said then. Lawyers for Our Children's Trust have argued that government policies have deprived the children of their "constitutional rights to life, liberty, and property, to dignity, to personal security, to a stable climate system capable of sustaining human lives and liberties." They want the government to "prepare an accounting of the nation's greenhouse gas emissions, and prepare and implement an enforceable national remedial plan" for reducing carbon emissions. Federal district court Judge Ann Aiken, who has presided over pretrial briefing for more than two years, had scheduled the trial to begin Monday and last up to 12 weeks." ourts have an obligation not to overstep the bounds of their jurisdiction, but they have an equally important duty to fulfill their role as a check on any unconstitutional actions of the other branches of government," she said last month in denying the government's effort to stall or dismiss the trial. The Justice Department objected to the time and expense, claiming that the issue was one for Congress, not the courts, to resolve. Its objections were first raised during the Obama administration." his suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process, by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions," Solicitor General Noel Francisco argued in court papers. The children on whose behalf the lawsuit was filed, he said, "can make no credible claim of imminent, irreparable harm. Their alleged injuries stem from the cumulative effects of CO2 emissions from every source in the world over decades." Although the case, Juliana v. United States, has yet to reach the trial stage, it has been taught in more than two dozen law schools as well as primary and secondary schools, lawyers for the children said – "inspiring students of all ages to see themselves in the parchment of the U.S. Constitution." More: Supreme Court: Conservative groups see opportunities to cut regulation, shore up property rightsMore: Brett Kavanaugh vote: Will 'asterisk justice' bring political stain to Supreme Court?More: Who is the real Brett Kavanaugh? Legal whiz kid or partisan hack? Mentor to women or beer-loving frat boy?	False
869	RT	questionable_source	2017-08-08	Our community and our planet are under attack, yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate.	"The combination of federal preemption and federal inaction is unacceptable."	Inslee urged Congress and the US Department of Transportation to implement even tougher regulations, including lower speed limits for high-hazard flammable trains and to use safer cars that are "strong enough to protect volatile contents from the heat of a fire or the impact of a collision."	ailroads engage in interstate commerce, which means the buck stops with the federal government.	"It's time for the people to step up to resolve this crisis before we run out of time."		2 protesters arrested after laying down on tracks to block oil train in Washington Protesters were arrested in Washington after blocking an oil train by erecting a "pop-up garden of sunflowers" and lying down on the train tracks. The group was protesting a proposed oil terminal and all other fossil fuel infrastructure in the state. Two people were arrested Monday during a protest in downtown Vancouver, Washington held by the activist group Shut Down Fossil Fuels. Protesters locked their arms into large sunflower pots and laid down on train tracks, calling on Washington Governor Jay Inslee (D) to reject the proposed Vancouver Tesoro Savage Oil Terminal and "all other proposed fossil fuel infrastructure in the State of Washington," the group said in a press release. The protesters were blocking a BNSF train carrying Bakken Crude Oil, a highly volatile oil that caused a train to explode in Mosier, Oregon last June. Jessie Braverman, the group's media liaison, told RT that around 25 people showed up at the train tracks to address climate change, and let the governor know that "if he isn't going to stop the terminal than we will." Our community and our planet are under attack, yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate. We were here on the tracks a year after the Mosier oil train derailment and nothing has changed," Braverman said in a statement. "The trains are still coming and new fossil fuel projects are still being proposed; we're in the midst of a worldwide climate emergency and we're fighting back." Braverman confirmed that two people were arrested during the protest and they are still being held in jail. She also said that there had been "no word" from the governor, whom they had been attempting to contact throughout the day. According to the Associated Press, the tracks were cleared after an hour. In 2014, the state of Washington passed legislation to increase track and hazardous material inspections, require oil spill contingency plans, increase funding for prevention and cleanup of oil spills, and improve safety at crossings along oil train routes. However, Inslee said that "states are limited in what we can do" in creating regulations for interstate railroads." ailroads engage in interstate commerce, which means the buck stops with the federal government. While federal regulators acknowledge the risks of crude-by-rail, they have taken few steps toward increasing safety," Inslee wrote in an op-ed for the Columbian last year. "The combination of federal preemption and federal inaction is unacceptable." Inslee urged Congress and the US Department of Transportation to implement even tougher regulations, including lower speed limits for high-hazard flammable trains and to use safer cars that are "strong enough to protect volatile contents from the heat of a fire or the impact of a collision." However, the group said that Inslee has failed to craft an emissions reduction strategy and the state "continues to move towards a dizzying array of new fossil fuel developments." If I can stop an oil train, Governor Jay Inslee can stop an oil terminal," Chris, one of the protesters, said in a statement. Ultimately, Shut Down Fossil Fuels is calling for "an end to oil trains, oil terminals, and all fossil fuels." It's now or never. We're up against the wire and nobody — no politician, no agency, no industry — is stepping up to resolve the climate crisis," Mike, one of the protesters locked to a flower pot, said in a statement. "It's time for the people to step up to resolve this crisis before we run out of time." Sophie Scholl, another media liaison for the group, told RT that there has been a second blockade of a train up north following the arrests in downtown Vancouver.	False
263	rt	questionable_source	2019-03-03	"You're just a garden-variety hypocrite like the others.	You would bring about mass death."	"Living in the world as it is isn't an argument against working towards a better future."	Moore hit back, calling AOC a "pompous little twit" and claiming that "if fossil fuels were banned every tree in the world would be cut down for fuel for cooking and heating.	House Speaker Nancy Pelosi brushed it aside in an interview with Rolling Stone on Thursday, saying it "goes beyond what our charge is."		'Pompous twit will get us all killed': AOC tweet-tacked over Green New Deal by ex-Greenpeace founder Greenpeace founder turned climate change skeptic Patrick Moore has reignited his feud with Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, calling her a "pompous little twit" and "garden-variety hypocrite" in a barrage of tweets. Moore helped found the veteran eco-organization in the 1970s, before parting ways with his fellow activists over their left-wing politics and becoming an advocate for nuclear power and lobbyist for the forestry industry. Lately, he has been tussling with New York Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez over the 'Green New Deal,' an ambitious piece of environmental legislation that seeks to dramatically overhaul America's energy sector and economy in a bid to slash carbon output. Moore began picking the Green New Deal apart in February, ridiculing its promise to remove "greenhouse gases from the atmosphere." Technically," he stated, "this would mean removing all H2O vapour and all CO2 which would mean the eradication of all life on Earth." The legislation has been ridiculed from all sides for its proposed abolition of air travel and fossil fuel powered vehicles, as well as its estimated cost of over $50 trillion, over twice the worth of the entire US economy. Ocasio-Cortez has stuck to her guns, however. In a tweet, the Bronx Democrat told skeptics "If you don't like the Green New Deal, then come up with your own ambitious, on-scale proposal... until then, we're in charge." Moore hit back, calling AOC a "pompous little twit" and claiming that "if fossil fuels were banned every tree in the world would be cut down for fuel for cooking and heating. You would bring about mass death." More recently, a New York Post hit-piece lambasted Ocasio-Cortez for using cars to get around while campaigning in New York instead of the subway system. "I also fly and use A/C," Ocasio-Cortez responded. "Living in the world as it is isn't an argument against working towards a better future." The 'world as it is' has the option of taking the subway rather than a taxi," Moore continued. "You're just a garden-variety hypocrite like the others. And you have ZERO expertise at any of the things you pretend to know," he tweeted on Sunday, before calling AOC an "immature bully." Ocasio-Cortez' more mainstream Democrat colleagues have paid lip-service to the Green New Deal, but have been cautious about declaring support for the plan. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi brushed it aside in an interview with Rolling Stone on Thursday, saying it "goes beyond what our charge is." In addition to slashing carbon emissions, the deal calls for widespread wealth redistribution to "counteract systemic injustices," and includes provisions for universal healthcare and taxpayer-funded college tuition. An early overview of the plan, since removed from Ocasio-Cortez' website, promised "economic security for all who are unable or unwilling to work," swore to sideline the private sector in all environmental decision-making, and even vowed to eliminate "farting cows." Republicans argue that the deal is tantamount to full-blown socialism. Its more outlandish provisions have turned it into a punching bag for the GOP, who have sought to paint the Democratic party as the party of socialist totalitarianism ahead of next year's election. After referring to AOC as a raving "lunatic," President Donald Trump said on Saturday that the deal "is the new Democrat platform, and I don't want to talk them out of it...I want them to embrace this plan. I just want to be the Republican who runs against them." Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False
292	rt	questionable_source	2019-09-05	But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Like this story?	At around the same time, his campaign cautioned voters not to "turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines" – an ironic coincidence, or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event?Before Biden's eye exploded, the audience had been raking him over the coals for a scheduled fundraiser the following night at the home of a natural gas executive.	Is he ok?		Is he ok? Biden's eye fills with BLOOD as he defends fossil fuel ties at climate forum (VIDEO) Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audience's eyes at the climate change town hall – literally, as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half-truths and excuses. The former Vice President was clearly floundering during CNN's climate change town hall on Wednesday, which saw him face off against eight other Democrats. Viewers called him out for "rambling, incoherent" answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry. Then his left eye began filling up with blood. At around the same time, his campaign cautioned voters not to "turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines" – an ironic coincidence, or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event?Before Biden's eye exploded, the audience had been raking him over the coals for a scheduled fundraiser the following night at the home of a natural gas executive. The three-time candidate has never been particularly committed to "green" issues – slammed by environmental groups for not having a climate change policy, he finally released one in June that contained several plagiarized items. But he had, along with most of the other Democratic candidates, promised not to take money from the fossil fuel industry – a promise the fundraiser seemed to break, to viewers' dismay. But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye. "Look, Biden haters, sometimes your eye is gonna spontaneously fill up with blood, okay," one user joked. "Twitter furiously deploying algorithms to keep Biden's bloody corpse eye from trending," observed another (it appeared to work - while #ClimateTownHall was trending, #BidensBloodyEye and variations thereof were noticeably not). Apparently, it wasn't even the first time Biden's eye has filled up with blood during an important political event. But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment. "Not sure after tonight who has less time to live, Biden or the planet," said one. "Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding," commented another. "I give it 14 minutes before Biden's campaign says his bloody eye was because of climate change," predicted another. Meanwhile, others made the inevitable comparisons to Hillary Clinton – another candidate with a marked "enthusiasm gap" between donors and voters, who has run for president and lost before, yet is propped up by the media as the surefire winner. And some took time out from gawking to worry about his health, since political speeches don't normally cause visible injury. "Does Biden have a blood clot in his left eye?" wondered one user. "This can't be good news, given his health history," noted another. Like this story? Share it with a friend!	False
444	vox	left_bias	2018-03-16	Now it looks like we're condemned to repeat it.	It's not just rhetoric.	And some government research grant applications faced extra scrutiny and rejection for mentioning the "double C-word."	The damages from the hurricanes, heat waves, wildfires, and tornadoes in 2017 cost at least $306 billion."	"Climate change" isn't part of it.		FEMA is preparing for the future. "Climate change" isn't part of it. The United States is still reeling from last year's megadisasters. Puerto Rico lingers in the longest blackout in US history after Hurricane Maria tore through the island, and the scorched earth left behind from record-breaking fires in California is now causing floods and mudslides. The Federal Emergency Management Agency, which was on the front lines of many of these calamities, had to go back to Congress last September to ask for billions more dollars to handle the gargantuan relief efforts. With some of the dust settled, it's clear that the events in 2017 fit the pattern of extreme weather we expect as average global temperatures go up, with strong climate change signals emerging in fires and rainfall. FEMA has, and will continue to, respond to climate change-influenced disasters. But the agency's new strategic plan for 2018-2022, released Thursday, doesn't mention climate change or global warming at all. That's despite the fact that the 38-page document projects more frequent and more expensive disasters. This is a glaring omission from an agency that deals with anticipating and responding to weather extremes driven in part by a changing climate. The damages from the hurricanes, heat waves, wildfires, and tornadoes in 2017 cost at least $306 billion." isaster costs are expected to continue to increase due to rising natural hazard risk, decaying critical infrastructure, and economic pressures that limit investments in risk resilience," according to the document. FEMA did signal that it wants to invest more in "pre-disaster mitigation," which may or may not include climate change. But it wasn't so coy in its previous 2014-2018 strategic plan, which noted that the agency "will also ensure that future risks, including those influenced by climate change, are effectively integrated into the Agency's risk assessment resources and processes." Dropping climate change from FEMA's strategic plan is just the latest part of the Trump administration's long pattern of erasing climate change as a public policy issue across the federal government. Agencies including the Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Department of the Interior have removed climate change language from many of their websites. Other agencies have limited access to policy and technical documents dealing with climate change. And some government research grant applications faced extra scrutiny and rejection for mentioning the "double C-word." It's not just rhetoric. President Trump wants the United States to back out of the Paris climate agreement, and the EPA is working to undo the main policy for restricting greenhouse gases, the Clean Power Plan. The White House's latest budget proposal seeks a 72 percent cut to clean energy research and reduces FEMA's budget by almost $600 million from $16.1 billion. The recent personnel shake-up across the federal government doesn't bode well for the fight against climate change either. Rex Tillerson, who was fired as secretary of state this week, wanted the United States to remain in the Paris deal. His likely replacement, Mike Pompeo, doesn't believe humanity is warming the planet. And former White House adviser George David Banks, who suggested that Trump could rejoin the Paris agreement, resigned last month after he failed to get a security clearance due to past marijuana use. The net result is that the Trump administration is doing little to either mitigate or adapt to rising temperatures. And now homeowners, many of whom received disaster relief money from FEMA, are rebuilding in floodplains and high-fire-risk areas. It seems FEMA doesn't want to build on this history of climate disasters. Now it looks like we're condemned to repeat it.	False
154	motherjones	left_bias	2019-04-07	The People's Forests and the Green New Deal highlight the ways social and environmental harms are woven together, a reminder that real solutions require a mutual untangling, and that — despite American history and politics' suspicion of true socialism — government necessarily holds many of the threads.	He united a biological and social vision for forestry, one where human happiness and decent livelihoods might sprout from robust forests.	When capitalism stumbles badly, producing degraded lands and gaping inequalities, socialistic solutions rise in popularity, because their incentives are not tied to profits.	The "socialist" sobriquet stokes ideological fires but douses historical understanding.	Marshall's closing line argues for that perspective: "The time has come when we must discard the unsocial view that our woods are the lumbermen's and substitute the broader ideal that every acre of woodland in the country is rightly a part of the people's forests."		Critics of the Green New Deal Rail Against Socialism. We've Seen This Before. This story was originally published by High Country News and is shared here as part of the Climate Desk collaboration. The Green New Deal and its proponents aim to tackle the intertwined issues of social and environmental justice in our age of anthropogenic climate change. To accomplish this, they believe they must deploy the federal government, since it is the only institution large enough to coordinate and invest in the necessary policies. But the idea of expanding the role of government has attracted critics, who rail against socialism. To historians, this sounds familiar. This is not the first time socialism, new deals and the environment have intersected. During the catastrophe of the Great Depression of the 1930s, the federal government similarly attempted to ameliorate social and environmental harms by investing in people and places through the New Deal. Then, as now, critics dismissed it as socialism. The "socialist" sobriquet stokes ideological fires but douses historical understanding. One prominent example—Bob Marshall's argument for nationalizing forests during the 1930s—reveals how socialist solutions emerge from specific contexts and problems, not ideological bunkers. In Marshall's case, the dire state of private timberlands in the early 20th century prompted his call for reform. When massive problems develop, cross jurisdictional lines and are associated with market failures, big government responses can seem like the only possible solution. By the early 20th century, hundreds of years of unregulated cutting had ravaged the nation's forests, and Americans faced a crisis that demanded intervention. "Rocks and mountains may be ageless, but men and society are emphatically of the present, and they cannot wait for the slow process of nature to retrieve the catastrophe caused by their unthinking destructiveness," wrote Marshall, a forester for federal agencies throughout his career, a co-founder of The Wilderness Society and the person for whom Montana's Bob Marshall Wilderness Area is named.A massive evaluation of American forestry conducted by the Forest Service in 1932 both shaped and reflected Marshall's views. Appearing the next year, A National Plan for American Forestry, known as the Copeland Report, showed that private forests were failing. (The majority of the nation's timber came from privately held forests, just as it does today.) They burned more often, were not harvested to provide a "continual crop of timber," failed to protect watersheds and offered few recreational opportunities compared to public forests. They caused social problems, too, with lumber workers doing dangerous, transient jobs that resulted in mangled bodies and left hollowed-out towns behind. As Marshall saw it, "The private owner is thus responsible for almost every serious forest problem." So, Marshall argued that American timberlands should be publicly owned. In 1933, four years into the Depression and during the first year of Franklin D. Roosevelt's presidency, Marshall published The People's Forests, his own radical extension of the Copeland Report, which advocated for public ownership of practically all commercial forests in America. He was writing amid an economic catastrophe mirrored in the nation's wild and rural landscapes, where bankrupted farmers, out-of-work loggers and drought-driven refugees were common, not unlike today. Throughout The People's Forests, Marshall showed how private ownership, even when tempered by public regulation, fell short; only full public ownership could keep forests and communities healthy. He united a biological and social vision for forestry, one where human happiness and decent livelihoods might sprout from robust forests. In articulating that vision, he made his socialist case plain: "The fundamental advantage of public ownership of forests over private ownership is that in the former social welfare is substituted for private gain as the major objective of management." Much the way today's Green New Deal seeks to redress both economic and environmental impoverishment, Marshall sought to replace private profit with a broader public spiritedness that aimed for long-term stability, ending cut-and-run practices and ultimately strengthening communities. Marshall's call for reforms reflected an accelerating trend of expanding public lands in the 1930s, when the federal government acquired millions of acres for national parks, national forests and wildlife refuges. Newly passed laws, like the Migratory Bird Hunting Stamp Act (1934) and the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act (1937), helped the government fund refuges, acquire property for conservation and bail out private owners who lived on wrecked lands. Starting around the same time and lasting until the 1950s, Forest Service administrators advocated for public regulation of logging on private land, principally citing concerns about declining timber production and the threat of fire on poorly managed parcels. Though ultimately unsuccessful, those efforts illustrated a push to establish stability amid unsettling crisis, a goal Marshall shared. When capitalism stumbles badly, producing degraded lands and gaping inequalities, socialistic solutions rise in popularity, because their incentives are not tied to profits. Marshall's closing line argues for that perspective: "The time has come when we must discard the unsocial view that our woods are the lumbermen's and substitute the broader ideal that every acre of woodland in the country is rightly a part of the people's forests." Shouting "socialist" as an epithet is a tired strategy, a failure to reckon with specific contexts and problems, whether it's damaged timberlands in the 1930s or rising sea levels today. The People's Forests and the Green New Deal highlight the ways social and environmental harms are woven together, a reminder that real solutions require a mutual untangling, and that — despite American history and politics' suspicion of true socialism — government necessarily holds many of the threads.	True
124	vox	left_bias	2019-12-12	This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	And so what happens to these forests truly affects all life on Earth.	Meet the trees, get to know their superpowers, and learn how scientists are trying to protect them.	We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster, not just locally but globally.	This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you, me, and the whole world.		These 3 supertrees can protect us from climate collapse Dozens of countries have extraordinary tropical forests, but three stand out: Brazil, Indonesia, and the Democratic Republic of Congo. These countries not only have the largest areas of tropical forest within their borders; they also have the highest rates of deforestation. Dozens of countries have extraordinary tropical forests, but three stand out: Brazil, Indonesia, and the Democratic Republic of Congo. These countries not only have the largest areas of tropical forest within their borders; they also have the highest rates of deforestation. We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster, not just locally but globally. These trees play many ecological roles, but most impressive is how they produce rainfall, remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, and support hundreds of other species. If these ecosystems collapse, the climate effects are likely to be irreversible. And so what happens to these forests truly affects all life on Earth. This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you, me, and the whole world. Meet the trees, get to know their superpowers, and learn how scientists are trying to protect them. This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	False
260	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-12-20	I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice."	believe I am the only person here who will say unequivocally this is my number one priority," Steyer continued.	In addition to what he plans to do in regards to climate change, Steyer also stated at a previous Democrat debate that he would "force" American towns to accept new, affordable housing in certain areas.	He also stated that he had "prevented pipelines and fossil fuel plants."	"I know that we have to deal with this crisis.		Tom Steyer Vows to 'Declare State of Emergency' on Climate Crisis Democrat presidential candidate and billionaire Tom Steyer once again vowed to declare a state of emergency over the climate "crisis" America faces during the sixth Democrat presidential debate at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles, California."  am hoping, that we, in fact, that we will do what I am suggesting that we do, which is declare a state of emergency on day one of my presidency," Steyer said in regards to the relocation of families under certain living conditions in America."  believe I am the only person here who will say unequivocally this is my number one priority," Steyer continued. "I know that we have to deal with this crisis. I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice." Steyer then claimed he had previously "taken on oil companies and beaten them on environmental laws" and "pushed clean energy across this country." He also stated that he had "prevented pipelines and fossil fuel plants." Steyer then shifted focus to cleaning "up the air and water in the black and brown communities where our pollution is concentrated" and claimed it would create "millions of middle-class union jobs." Steyer also called on Mayor Pete Buttigieg, another Democrat presidential hopeful, to put more emphasis on climate change, saying the "people in his generation understand that this is a crisis that we have to go on right now" and "reinvent America." In addition to what he plans to do in regards to climate change, Steyer also stated at a previous Democrat debate that he would "force" American towns to accept new, affordable housing in certain areas.	False
168	usatoday	left_center_bias	2019-02-28	Though not as controversial or ethically compromised as Pruitt, Wheeler is opposed by a number of environmental groups who sharply criticize the president's aggressive efforts to undo Obama-era rules they say are designed to protect the environment and address climate change."	While calling Wheeler "certainly qualified for this position," Collins said some of the policies he has proposed as acting administrator "are not in the best interest of our environment and public health, particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	It's a sad day for public health and the EPA, but mission accomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries," Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group, said in a statement following the vote.	And his agency finalized revisions to a 2015 Obama-era rule regulating the disposal of coal ash that gives states and utilities what he called "much needed flexibility" to manage their waste.	He also recommended freezing miles-per-gallon standards for cars and light trucks after the 2020 model year and preventing California and other states from setting tougher standards, saying it will improve safety and keep prices lower for consumers."		Andrew Wheeler, who&apos;s been leading Trump deregulatory charge, confirmed by Senate as EPA chief WASHINGTON – Andrew Wheeler is no longer the acting director of the EPA following the Senate's vote Thursday to make him the official head of the environmental regulatory agency. The Senate narrowly confirmed Wheeler 52-47, largely along party lines with Republicans in support and Democrats against him. While leading President Donald Trump's deregulatory agenda, Wheeler also has emphasized the agency's work to clean up Superfund sites and, for the first time, begin regulating a set of harmful chemicals found in drinking water systems that serve millions of Americans." Mr. Wheeler has proven his ability to advance pragmatic solutions to pressing environmental challenges," Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said on the Senate floor before the vote. Maine Sen. Susan Collins was the lone Republican to oppose Wheeler's confirmation. While calling Wheeler "certainly qualified for this position," Collins said some of the policies he has proposed as acting administrator "are not in the best interest of our environment and public health, particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation."A former EPA bureaucrat who also served as an influential Capitol Hill staffer and an energy lobbyist, Wheeler had been acting administrator of the agency since July when he replaced Scott Pruitt who left under an ethical cloud. When Trump nominated Wheeler for the official post in November, the president praised him for performing "a fantastic job." Though not as controversial or ethically compromised as Pruitt, Wheeler is opposed by a number of environmental groups who sharply criticize the president's aggressive efforts to undo Obama-era rules they say are designed to protect the environment and address climate change." It's a sad day for public health and the EPA, but mission accomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries," Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group, said in a statement following the vote. "They have longed for one of their own to call the shots at the agency, and now they finally have their man in Andrew Wheeler." At his confirmation hearing in January, Senate Democrats grilled Wheeler about his agency's proposals to roll back mercury emissions standards, weaken clean water regulations and scrap Obama-era climate change rules. Related: President Trump made the right pick for EPA: Sen. BarrassoShortly after taking over in July, Wheeler's EPA moved ahead with a plan to do away with the Obama-era Clean Power Plan and replace it with a proposed rule to set state guidelines for power-plant emissions of greenhouse gases that contribute to a warming planet. And his agency finalized revisions to a 2015 Obama-era rule regulating the disposal of coal ash that gives states and utilities what he called "much needed flexibility" to manage their waste. He also recommended freezing miles-per-gallon standards for cars and light trucks after the 2020 model year and preventing California and other states from setting tougher standards, saying it will improve safety and keep prices lower for consumers." We haven't slowed down and we haven't missed a step," Wheeler told senators in August. "As you can see, we're continuing the president's agenda post-haste."	False
228	npr	left_center_bias	2019-11-30	"It's made us more sustainable — environmentally [and] also economically."	His hope is that the concept will spread here.	"There's no question it's better than putting it in the trash," Franczyk says.	Massachusetts has a state law that prohibits the disposal of commercial organic waste — including food — by businesses and institutions that generate at least one ton of this waste per week.	In fact, a recent report from the United Nations from a panel of climate experts estimates that up to 10 percent of all human-made greenhouse gas emissions are linked to food waste.		Chew On This: Farmers Are Using Food Waste To Make Electricity Chew On This: Farmers Are Using Food Waste To Make ElectricityThis story was produced as part of a collaboration with the PBS NewsHourAs the season of big holiday meals kicks off, it's as good a time as any to reflect on just how much food goes to waste. If you piled up all the food that's not eaten over the course of a year in the U.S., it would be enough to fill a skyscraper in Chicago about 44 times, according to an estimate from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. And, when all this food rots in a landfill, it emits methane, a powerful greenhouse gas that contributes to climate change. In fact, a recent report from the United Nations from a panel of climate experts estimates that up to 10 percent of all human-made greenhouse gas emissions are linked to food waste. So, here's one solution to the problem: Dairy farmers in Massachusetts are using food waste to create electricity. They feed waste into anaerobic digesters, built and operated by Vanguard Renewables, which capture the methane emissions and make renewable energy. The process begins by gathering wasted food from around the state, including from many Whole Foods locations. We visited the chain's store in Shrewsbury, Mass., which has installed a Grind2Energy system. It's an industrial-strength grinder that gobbles up all the scraps of food the store can't sell, explains Karen Franczyk, who is the sustainability program manager for Whole Foods' North Atlantic region. The machine will grind up all kinds of food waste — "everything from bones, we put whole fish in here, to vegetables to dry items like rice or grains," Franczyk says as the grinder is loaded. It also takes frying fats and greases. While Whole Foods donates a lot of surplus food to food banks, there's a lot waste left over. Much of it is generated from prepping prepared foods. Just as when you cook in your own kitchen, there are lots of bits that remain, such as onion or carrot peel, rinds, stalks or meat scraps. The grinder turns all these bits into a slurry. "It really becomes kind of a liquefied food waste," Franczyk says. From here, the waste is loaded into a truck and sent to an anaerobic digester. "There's no question it's better than putting it in the trash," Franczyk says. She says the chain is committed to diverting as much waste as possible and aims for zero waste. In addition to food donations, Whole Foods composts; this waste-to-energy system is yet another way to meet its goal. "We really do like the system," she says. We visited Bar-Way Farm, Inc. in Deerfield, Mass. Owner Peter Melnik, a fourth-generation dairy farmer, showed us how his anaerobic digester, which is installed next to his dairy barn, works." We presently take in about a 100 tons [of waste], which is about three tractor-trailer loads, every day," Melnik says. In addition to all the food waste from Whole Foods, he gets whey from a Cabot Creamery in the area, as well as waste from a local brewery and a juice plant. In the digester, he combines all of this waste with manure from his cows. The mixture cooks at about 105 degrees Fahrenheit. As the methane is released, it rises to the top of a large red tank with a black bubble-shaped dome." We capture the gas in that bubble. Then we suck it into a big motor," Melnik explains. Unlike other engines that run on diesel or gasoline, this engine runs on methane." This turns a big generator, which is creating one megawatt of electricity" continuously, Melnik says — enough to power more than just his farm. "We only use about 10 percent of what we make, and the rest is fed onto the [electricity] grid," Melnik explains. It's enough to power about 1,500 homes. He says times are tough for dairy farmers, so this gives him a new stream of revenue. Vanguard pays him rental fees for having the anaerobic digester on his farm. In addition, he's able to use the liquids left over from the process as fertilizer on his fields." The digester has been a home run for us," Melnik says. "It's made us more sustainable — environmentally [and] also economically." Vanguard Renewables hopes to expand its operations in the state and elsewhere. "There's more than enough food waste in Massachusetts to feed all of our five digesters, plus many more," says CEO John Hanselman. Massachusetts has a state law that prohibits the disposal of commercial organic waste — including food — by businesses and institutions that generate at least one ton of this waste per week. This has created an incentive for food businesses to participate in the waste-to-energy initiative. Hanselman points to Europe, where there are thousands of digesters in operation. His hope is that the concept will spread here. "The food waste recycling through anaerobic digestion could be done in every part of the country," Hanselman says. The company is currently building an anaerobic digester on a farm in Vermont. The gas produced there will be piped to Middlebury College, which will help the college reduce its carbon footprint.	False
779	USA Today	left_center_bias	2017-06-02	As president, I have one obligation and that obligation is to the American people," Trump said during a speech in the Rose Garden announcing the decision.	California Gov.	"The Paris Accord would undermine our economy, hamstring our workers, weaken our sovereignty, impose unacceptable legal risk, and put us at a permanent disadvantage to the other counties of the world."	Michael A. Needham, chief executive officer of the conservative Heritage Action for America, applauded the president's move."	Jerry Brown said he hopes Trump's "insane move" to back out of the Paris accord will spur others to action."		U.S. is reducing dependence on fossil fuels even without Paris climate agreement WASHINGTON – President Trump's decision to back out of the Paris climate accord is a blow to environmental activists, but the nation's steady, years-long reduction in greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to global warming won't suddenly stop. Utility companies have announced plans to fully or partially close more than a half dozen coal-fired power plants since Trump took office fewer than five months ago, taking some of the nation's largest greenhouse gas emitters off-line. And Wall Street fund managers and large businesses are moving away from fossil fuels due to market conditions, further contributing to increased use of cleaner energy sources. Since 2010, more than 250 coal-fired power plants have closed in the U.S. On Wednesday, Exxon Mobil shareholders voted – against the board's recommendation – to require the company publicly report on the risks to its business posed by climate change." he United States is making progress," said John Coequyt, Global Climate Policy Director for the Sierra Club. "We're moving forward. We believe the rest of the world will do the same." Trump has already taken unilateral steps to roll back regulations that were designed to implement the Paris agreement, including reversing President Obama's Clean Power Plan rule that sought to lower greenhouse emissions. Trump campaigned on a promise to withdraw the U.S. from the accord, saying it would lead to higher energy prices and hurt domestic businesses from being able to compete globally." As president, I have one obligation and that obligation is to the American people," Trump said during a speech in the Rose Garden announcing the decision. "The Paris Accord would undermine our economy, hamstring our workers, weaken our sovereignty, impose unacceptable legal risk, and put us at a permanent disadvantage to the other counties of the world." The international agreement, which was signed in 2015 and went into effect seven months ago, is considered a major part the environmental legacy of the Obama administration. Michael A. Needham, chief executive officer of the conservative Heritage Action for America, applauded the president's move." Withdrawal from the agreement marks a critical step in unraveling former President Obama's destructive legacy," Needham said. "Not only did Obama make this agreement without approval from Congress, but in doing so he handed more control of America's energy to foreign officials." Experts say pulling out of the accord will slow but hardly stop the momentum that's been building to keep a global temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Under current policy, the U.S. is still set to come "within striking distance" of meeting its 2020 goal under a prior U.N. climate change accord to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 17% below 2005 levels, according to a report by energy analysts the Rhodium Group. But the analysis said withdrawing from the accord makes it very unlikely the U.S. will meet the 26-28% target set out under the Paris deal. The exit from the accord will allow states, such as California and New York, to play a leading role in meeting climate change targets. California, for example, has stood out with its toughest-in-the-nation vehicle emissions laws that often effectively establish auto industry standards nationwide. California Gov. Jerry Brown said he hopes Trump's "insane move" to back out of the Paris accord will spur others to action." California will resist," he told reporters on a conference call after Trump's announcement. "California (is) all in. We're on the field ready for battle and while our president may be AWOL in the battle against climate change, we're not."	False
210	thenewyorktimes	left_center_bias	2019-09-05	One area where the Texan came down strong: No limits on the meat industry, despite calls from the United Nations for people to change their diet to avoid more damage to global land use."	It's the right thing to do."	reject any notion that we have to radically or fundamentally change how we eat or what we eat, I think we just have to be more responsible in the way that we do it, and the best way to do that is to allow the market to respond by setting a price on carbon," he said.	"It's the best way to send a pricing signal."	He said the government should help people move but avoided answering a question from the moderator, Don Lemon, about whether some areas were simply too risky for human habitation.		Beto O'Rourke Revives Cap-and-Trade Idea for Carbon Emissions We haven't heard much about a national cap-and-trade system to curb carbon emissions since plans for one died in Congress about a decade ago. But tonight at the CNN climate forum, Beto O'Rourke, the former congressman from Texas, revived the idea as his preferred method of pricing carbon. Under such a system, the government issues a limited number of "allowances" or permits to companies and other entities that emit carbon dioxide, essentially creating a "cap" on emissions. California and states across the Eastern Seaboard have used the system for the past several years to reduce emissions from the power sector. In the $5 trillion climate plan that Mr. O'Rourke released in April, he indicated he would pursue some type of carbon pricing to reach his goal of net-zero emissions by 2050, but didn't specify an approach. In response to a question from Priya Subberwal, a New York University student, Mr. O'Rourke made clear that he prefers cap-and-trade over a straight tax on carbon." e should certainly price carbon. I think the best possible path to do that is through a cap and trade system" he said. "It's the best way to send a pricing signal." The revenue from a cap-and-trade program, he said, would be reinvested in helping communities move toward clean energy. Mr. O'Rourke promised to — surprise, surprise — re-enter the Paris agreement on "Day 1." He also pledged to "lead the world in going well beyond the Paris climate agreement," prevent new oil and gas leases on federal lands and bring back Obama-era climate regulations like fuel economy standards and restrictions on coal-fired power plants. The former Texas congressman was also one of the few candidates who explicitly tied Hurricane Dorian to newly proposed policies. He called for extending temporary protected status "to anyone who wants to seek shelter here" from the Bahamas, which has been overwhelmed by the hurricane. Asylum laws, Mr. O'Rourke said, should "include those who have been impacted by climate change. It's the right thing to do." Mr. O'Rourke was less clear about whether he believes people in his home state of Texas should be prevented from living in vulnerable flood areas. He said the government should help people move but avoided answering a question from the moderator, Don Lemon, about whether some areas were simply too risky for human habitation. One area where the Texan came down strong: No limits on the meat industry, despite calls from the United Nations for people to change their diet to avoid more damage to global land use."  reject any notion that we have to radically or fundamentally change how we eat or what we eat, I think we just have to be more responsible in the way that we do it, and the best way to do that is to allow the market to respond by setting a price on carbon," he said.	False
832	Daily Mail	questionable_source	2017-04-23	The president's statement focused on the beauty of nature and the importance of preserving it for future generations.	'In a flurry of other tweets, he criticized President Obama for prioritizing the environment over other issues such as 'ISIS and Ebola.	He said in the second paragraph 'economic growth enhances environmental protection.	'President Trump's administration, executive orders and tweets indicate he is not a believer in climate change.	Jobs matter!		Trump doesn't say 'climate change' in Earth Day message President Donald Trump's Earth Day message greatly differed in tone from his predecessor by not mentioning climate change. The president's statement focused on the beauty of nature and the importance of preserving it for future generations. He said in the second paragraph 'economic growth enhances environmental protection.'This point was reiterated later in a somewhat defensive tweet. Trump said: 'I am committed to keeping our air and water clean but always remember that economic growth enhances environmental protection. Jobs matter!'By comparison, last year President Obama's message in 2016 took on an urgent tone and said: 'Human activity is disrupting the climate, and the challenge of combating climate change is one that will define the contours of our time.'However Obama did not mention climate change in 2010 or 2012 statements, important midterm and general election years, according to AOL. President Bush also pointed to climate change in his 2009 Earth Day statement: 'We are taking positive steps to confront the important challenge of climate change. Our work is not done.'President Trump's administration, executive orders and tweets indicate he is not a believer in climate change. In 2013 on a chilly day at Trump Tower, he tweeted:  'Another freezing day in the Spring - what is going on with "global warming"? Good move changing the name to "climate change" - sad!'In a flurry of other tweets, he criticized President Obama for prioritizing the environment over other issues such as 'ISIS and Ebola.'On Earth Day, thousands of scientists, students and research advocates marched around the world in protest of Trump's research budget cuts. Many of the signs at the rallies referenced climate change specifically. On Friday, Trump asked the Surgeon General Dr Vivek Murthy to resign from his post. Murthy previously spoke out against climate changed and called it a serious danger to public health.	False
94	vox	left_bias	2019-01-16	"I consider it to be an issue that has to be addressed globally."	"One thing that's important on the regulatory side is that we don't try to tip the scale one way or the other, for example, on energy sources," he said.	Some Republicans raised concerns about climate change as well.	"I do consider myself a conservationist," he said.	o you agree with the scientific community that climate change is a global crisis?"		EPA nominee Andrew Wheeler's confirmation hearing was all about climate change Senate Democrats used the Wednesday confirmation hearing of Andrew Wheeler, the acting administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, to push him on the agency's negligence on climate change, its rollback of regulations designed to protect Americans' health, and his uncannily close ties to the fossil fuel industry." o you agree with the scientific community that climate change is a global crisis?" Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) asked Wheeler repeatedly."  would not call it the greatest crisis, no, sir," Wheeler responded. "I consider it to be an issue that has to be addressed globally." Substantively, I think you have your thumb, wrist, forearm, and elbow on the scale," Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) told Wheeler, referring to Wheeler's past work as a coal lobbyist. Some Republicans raised concerns about climate change as well. At a few points, the hearing was interrupted by protesters and chants of "shut down Wheeler, not the EPA." Eight protesters were arrested. Wheeler, for his part, emphasized in the hearing before the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee that the EPA was revising Obama-era environmental regulations like the Clean Power Plan and the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards to comply with court rulings. It was a signal that he plans to continue to methodically advance Trump's agenda, but in a much less bombastic way than former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt, who resigned last year in disgrace after numerous allegations of ethics violations. Some Democrats even praised Wheeler for his collegiality and for being much more accessible than Pruitt. However, others said he was tilting regulations in favor of the sectors the EPA is supposed to regulate, for instance, weakening pollution regulations on coal-fired power plants. Before his work as a coal lobbyist, Wheeler was a staffer at the EPA and on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. He was also an Eagle Scout and emphasized his love of hiking and camping. "I do consider myself a conservationist," he said. Unlike Pruitt, Wheeler did acknowledge that humans are driving changes in the climate and that it must be addressed. When Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-OR) asked Wheeler how he rated climate change in importance on a scale of 1 to 10, Wheeler said it was "8 or 9." Yet global emissions continue to rise, and scientists recently warned that we're running out of time to accelerate the global effort to limit warming to a less disastrous level. Instead of joining this effort, the EPA is working to relax rules on emissions. And given that Wheeler answers to President Trump, who has dismissed climate change as a concern, it's unlikely we'll see any radical changes at the EPA anytime soon. The Senate is expected to confirm Wheeler soon as the new head of the agency in a vote. Several Republicans brought up climate change during the hearing, noting their concerns about the rise of carbon dioxide emissions in the United States in 2018, which Wheeler had disputed." e heard that there was an emissions rise in 2018, which you attributed to a cold winter, a hot summer, and also to more economic activity," said Sen. Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV). "You said you expect that to go down over time. What gives you the confidence that if this economy continues to roll the way we think it will, that will actually happen?"Wheeler said that greater energy efficiency in the power sector along with fuel economy standards would continue to drive down emissions. Sen. John Barrasso (R-WY) suggested that technology is the main solution to greenhouse gases and asked Wheeler about the EPA's role in fostering innovation and using tactics like capturing carbon dioxide to extract more oil or make building materials. Wheeler said that all of EPA's programs encourage innovation. "One thing that's important on the regulatory side is that we don't try to tip the scale one way or the other, for example, on energy sources," he said. That Republicans are acknowledging climate change at all is a sign that the political winds on the issue have shifted and they can no longer afford to be passive on the issue if they want policies on their terms. And innovation seems to be the key thread uniting Republican responses to climate change. As my colleague David Roberts pointed out, coming up with new technologies is indeed a key aspect of fighting climate change, but for Republicans, it may be a way to head off more ambitious climate policies. Already, momentum is building in the House for taxing carbon as well as a Green New Deal to fight climate change. During the hearing, Democrats revealed some of their strategy to pressure the EPA on climate change going forward. Since they lost seats in the Senate, Democrats emphasized key state-level disputes, like the fight between California and the EPA over fuel economy standards. Vehicles are a huge source of greenhouse gas emissions, and California wants to retain its authority to set tighter emissions rules than the rest of the country. The Trump administration wants one standard for the country as well as a much more relaxed fuel economy target than the one proposed under President Obama. Lawmakers from both sides also lamented the ongoing partial government shutdown. Most of the EPA's 13,000 employees are furloughed, but some are still on the job to deal with responses to disasters like the fallout from California's wildfires last year. Some employees were also recalled to help the EPA meet court-ordered deadlines for producing environmental regulations." nder these circumstances, it's not possible for EPA to do its mission," said Sen. Ben Cardin (D-MD). "I want to underscore how tragic this shutdown is."	False
771	Fusion	left_center_bias	2017-05-18	Or so it has been for thousands of years.	And we need to take heed of that.	We&#8217;re seeing changes at home.	They&#8217;re much more dramatic here, and they&#8217;re going to get more dramatic where we live as well.&#8221;	&#8220;But here, they&#8217;re happening over a few decades.		Antarctica's plant life is rapidly expanding due to climate change A Green Island moss bank with icebergs. Credit: Matt AmesburyAntarctica is a cold, white continent at the bottom of the world. Or so it has been for thousands of years. New evidence points to a sharp increase in biological activity in recent decades across the Antarctic Peninsula, resulting in large swaths of newfound greenery. Published in the journal Current Biology, a new study found major increases in Antarctic moss growth over the past 50 years, which the team of researchers attributes to temperature rises in the region. &#8220;It's another clear sign that the biology of the planet is changing as a result of warming temperatures,&#8221; said Professor Dan Charman of the University of Exeter, who led the research project. &#8220;What surprised us was just how rapid the changes have been and the fact that they are very unusual when compared with growth rates in the late 19th and early 20th century.&#8221;Charman said their evidence shows just how fast Antarctic land surface can change along with climactic changes. The Antarctic Peninsula is among the most rapidly warming areas in the world, with temperatures having increased by almost three degrees Celsius over the last 50 years. In March, a research base near the northern tip of the Antarctic peninsula set a heat record of 17.5 degrees Celsius (63.5° Fahrenheit). Currently, plant life only exists on about 0.3% of Antarctica. Charman said that, while as the Arctic warms a variety of plant life and soil organisms can migrate north, in Antarctica there are no nearby land areas for species to colonize from. But while no new natural plant life is anticipated, existing plant life such as Antarctic hairgrass and Antarctic pearlwort could occupy new ice-free ground as glaciers retreat. Dr. Matt Amesbury, also of the University of Exeter, said there were two main findings to take from their new study, scale and temperature sensitivity:Before now, studies have been from single sites but using a transect of sites, we've been able to show that this significant response to climate change is pervasive across the whole of the Antarctic Peninsula. The second important point is our finding which suggests that moss growth has been highly sensitive to temperature change since the 1950s—under future warming scenarios, this means we are likely to see a greening of the Antarctic Peninsula, both in terms of further increases in growth rates and also expansion of mosses and other plant life.  A Green Island moss bank with icebergs. Credit: Matt AmesburyWhile weather records only began in the 1950s in Antarctica, moss cores can provide a much older picture of how climate change has influenced biology in this frigid part of the world. Going forward, the researchers, who received funding from the Natural Environment Research Council, plan to examine core records dating back thousands of years to see how climate change affected the ecosystem before human activity was part of the picture. In March, James McClintock, a marine biologist with the University of Alabama at Birmingham and author of Lost Antarctica: Adventures In A Disappearing Land, told NPR that in Antarctica it&#8217;s possible to really see the impacts of climate change with your own eyes.&#8220;You know, we&#8217;re seeing changes in whole ecologies, whole communities down here that probably wouldn&#8217;t be unusual over millennia,&#8221; he said. &#8220;But here, they&#8217;re happening over a few decades. I really believe this is sort of the bellwether, if you will, of climate change environments on our planet. And we need to take heed of that. We&#8217;re seeing changes at home. They&#8217;re much more dramatic here, and they&#8217;re going to get more dramatic where we live as well.&#8221;	False
78	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-10-08	One found that avoiding meat and dairy products was the single biggest way to reduce an individual's environmental impact on the planet.	Recent scientific studies have found that huge reductions in meat-eating are essential in order to cut greenhouse gas emissions and avoid dangerous climate change.	e are proving that cultivated meat can be produced anytime, anywhere, in any condition," said Didier Toubia, co-founder and chief executive of Aleph Farms.	"We can potentially provide a powerful solution to produce the food closer to the population needing it, at the exact and right time it is needed."	The Israeli food technology startup Aleph Farms grew the meat on the International Space Station, 248 miles (399 km) away from any natural resources.		First meat grown in space lab 248 miles from Earth... Lab-grown meat has been successfully cultured in space for the first time. The Israeli food technology startup Aleph Farms grew the meat on the International Space Station, 248 miles (399 km) away from any natural resources. Bovine cells were harvested on Earth and taken to space, where they were grown into small-scale muscle tissue using a 3D bioprinter. The method relies on mimicking a natural process of muscle-tissue regeneration occurring inside a cow's body. The experiment took place on 26 September on the Russian segment of the space station, and involved the assembly of small-scale muscle tissue in a 3D bioprinter under controlled microgravity conditions. In future the technique could be used to provide meat for people living on the space station. The development marks a further step forward for a nascent industry that aims to provide people with real meat without the environmental impact and welfare problems of intensive livestock production. In December, Aleph Farms announced it had produced a prototype "strip" of steak grown from cells in the lab in two weeks, although it admitted the taste needed to be improved." e are proving that cultivated meat can be produced anytime, anywhere, in any condition," said Didier Toubia, co-founder and chief executive of Aleph Farms. "We can potentially provide a powerful solution to produce the food closer to the population needing it, at the exact and right time it is needed." In space, we don't have 10,000 or 15,000 litres of water available to produce 1kg of beef," added Toubia." his joint experiment marks a significant first step toward achieving our vision to ensure food security for generations to come, while preserving our natural resources." Recent scientific studies have found that huge reductions in meat-eating are essential in order to cut greenhouse gas emissions and avoid dangerous climate change. One found that avoiding meat and dairy products was the single biggest way to reduce an individual's environmental impact on the planet.	False
320	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-06-15	The Pope And Big Oil Agree: You Should Pay More For Energy Energy and investment executives who met with Pope Francis earlier in June stood mostly in agreement that a tax on carbon emissions is the best path forward to combating climate change.	The leader of the Catholic Church encouraged executives to give up fossil fuels and embrace renewable energy technology.	org.	Key members who met with Pope Francis include: ExxonMobil Chief Executive Darren Woods, BP CEO Bob Dudley, Equinor CEO Eldar Saetre and numerous others.	The meeting was just the latest in a series of public moves the pope has made against traditional forms of electricity production.		The Pope And Big Oil Agree: You Should Pay More For Energy Energy and investment executives who met with Pope Francis earlier in June stood mostly in agreement that a tax on carbon emissions is the best path forward to combating climate change. Pope Francis hosted a two-day summit at the Vatican on June 8 and 9, inviting key players in the oil and gas industry for a back-and-forth discussion on climate change. The leader of the Catholic Church encouraged executives to give up fossil fuels and embrace renewable energy technology. The meeting was just the latest in a series of public moves the pope has made against traditional forms of electricity production. Most who took part in the summit agreed that a fee on carbon emissions is pivotal in reforming the U.S. energy sector, according to an Axios report. Ernest Moniz, who served as an energy secretary under the Obama administration, took part in the summit and said "one of the areas of focus was carbon pricing to create market incentives for the transition to a low-carbon system." Key members who met with Pope Francis include: ExxonMobil Chief Executive Darren Woods, BP CEO Bob Dudley, Equinor CEO Eldar Saetre and numerous others. The idea of a carbon tax — a fee charged onto companies according to the amount of carbon emissions their plants emit into the atmosphere — has been recommended as a "market friendly" method to controlling CO2 pollution. While carbon tax proposals appeared popular at the Vatican, it has not garnered the same amount of support in Congress. Majority Whip Steve Scalise and West Virginia Rep. David McKinley introduced a House resolution in April that explicitly condemns a tax on carbon dioxide pollution. (RELATED: Pope Criticizes Oil Executives, Silent On Ireland Legalizing Abortion)In a public letter of support for Scalise's resolution, a group of conservative organizations claimed that a carbon tax would ultimately result in a loss of jobs and higher electricity bills: "For example, a 2014 Heritage Foundation report found that a $37 per ton carbon tax would lead to a loss of more than $2.5 trillion in aggregate gross domestic product by 2030. That is more than $21,000 in income loss per family," a portion of the letter read. "In addition, a carbon tax would cost over 500,000 jobs in manufacturing and more than 1 million jobs by 2030. According to a 2013 CBO report, a carbon tax is highly regressive." House members have yet to vote on the anti-carbon tax resolution. However, the lower chamber of Congress passed a similar version in June 2016, collecting six Democratic votes and zero Republicans opposition. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	True
136	politicususa	left_bias	2019-04-13	"They're trying to dictate to the world how much coal is used."	think what is effective regulation is one that follows the law and one that will be held up in court," he said.	He said while he encouraged EPA scientists to carry out and publish research, he stressed the recent paper "did not reflect EPA policy."	Asked whether he was concerned that the EPA may be out of synch with polls showing an overwhelming number of young people believe climate change should be a priority issue, Wheeler was dismissive."	Asked whether the replacement – the Affordable Clean Energy rule, which gives states responsibility for regulating emissions – is stringent enough, Wheeler said it adheres to the parameters of federal law."		Trump's Environmental Protection Agency chief says climate is not a top priority (Reuters) – The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will unveil a proposal to speed state-level permitting decisions for energy infrastructure projects soon, the agency's chief told Reuters on Thursday, blasting states that have blocked coal terminals and gas pipelines on environmental grounds. President Donald Trump is seeking to boost domestic fossil fuels production over the objections of Democrats and environmentalists concerned about pollution and climate change. On Wednesday he issued a pair of executive orders targeting the power of states to delay energy projects." e started working on it in advance, so we hope to have something out soon," EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said in an interview. He was unable to provide a precise timeline. Based on Trump's orders, Wheeler's EPA has been tasked with clarifying a section of the U.S. Clean Water Act that has allowed states like New York and Washington to delay projects in recent years. New York has used the section to delay pipelines that would bring natural gas to New England, for example, and Washington state has stopped coal export terminals that would open the Asian market for struggling coal companies in Wyoming and other landlocked western states." hey are trying to make international environmental policy," Wheeler said of Washington state, whose governor, Democrat Jay Inslee, is running for president on a climate change-focused platform. "They're trying to dictate to the world how much coal is used." Wheeler said New York, which amid strong public pressure denied a clean water act permit for construction of a natural gas pipeline to New England, is forcing that region "to use Russian-produced natural gas." We are importing Russian natural gas which is not produced in an environmentally conscious manner. If the states that are blocking the pipelines were truly concerned about the environment, they would look to where the natural gas would be coming from… I think it's very short-sighted," he said. Wheeler said the EPA would not prevent a state from vetoing a project, but would clarify the parameters they should be able to consider, and the length of time they have to do so. He also said that California is playing politics in its fight with the EPA to preserve its more stringent vehicle emission standards as the national standard. Wheeler said he believes climate change is a problem, but that it had been overblown by former President Barack Obama's administration – at the expense of other bigger issues like water quality." es, climate is an issue and we are working to address it, but I think water is a bigger issue," he said. Wheeler dismissed the findings of a report released earlier this week by EPA scientists in the journal Nature Climate Change that detailed the scale and urgency of climate change. He said while he encouraged EPA scientists to carry out and publish research, he stressed the recent paper "did not reflect EPA policy." Environmental groups say the EPA's replacement of an Obama-era rule limiting carbon emissions from power plants would likely lead to increased emissions by allowing older, more polluting coal plants to operate longer. Asked whether the replacement – the Affordable Clean Energy rule, which gives states responsibility for regulating emissions – is stringent enough, Wheeler said it adheres to the parameters of federal law."  think what is effective regulation is one that follows the law and one that will be held up in court," he said. Several Democrats challenging Trump in the 2020 election have made climate change a top-tier issue, embracing aggressive policy platforms like the Green New Deal calling for an end of fossil fuels use. Asked whether he was concerned that the EPA may be out of synch with polls showing an overwhelming number of young people believe climate change should be a priority issue, Wheeler was dismissive."  do fear that because so many people only talked about climate change. You're right, there could very well be a new generation coming up saying that's the only environmental issue – and it's not," he said.	False
634	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-05-20	In the Bible, God orders Noah to carry two of every living creature on his ark."	n the Epic of Gilgamesh, waters so overwhelm the mortals that the gods grow frightened, too," Gillis wrote, "In India's version, Lord Vishnu warns a man to take refuge in a boat, carrying seeds.	I don't think the biblical deluge is just a fairy tale," Terence Hughes, a retired glaciologist told Gillis.	"I think some kind of major flood happened all over the world, and it left an indelible imprint on the collective memory of mankind that got preserved in these stories."	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.		'Potential Apocalypse': NYT Warns Of Global Warming Floods Of Biblical Proportions The New York Times has taken warnings about global warming to a whole new level, publishing a three-part series suggesting a "potential apocalypse" from melting ice sheets if humans keep pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere." f that ice sheet were to disintegrate, it could raise the level of the sea by more than 160 feet — a potential apocalypse, depending on exactly how fast it happened," NYT reporter Justin Gillis wrote of what some scientists predict could happen to Antarctica. Gillis points to recent research suggesting "the collapse of the ice sheet will become inevitable," likening the projected 160-foot sea-level rise to flood stories from the Epic of Gilgamesh to the Bible's Old Testament." n the Epic of Gilgamesh, waters so overwhelm the mortals that the gods grow frightened, too," Gillis wrote, "In India's version, Lord Vishnu warns a man to take refuge in a boat, carrying seeds. In the Bible, God orders Noah to carry two of every living creature on his ark." I don't think the biblical deluge is just a fairy tale," Terence Hughes, a retired glaciologist told Gillis. "I think some kind of major flood happened all over the world, and it left an indelible imprint on the collective memory of mankind that got preserved in these stories." That flooding would have occurred at the end of the last ice age," Gillis reported. Of course he left out the part about Antarctic ice sheet melting taking place over a couple thousands years. Now, the research Gillis points to is a worst-scenario based on a Parallel Ice Sheet Model, as reported by scientists in a 2015 study. Models can be useful tools to test complex climate interactions, but they are still projections, not facts. That 2015 study found "half the Antarctic ice sheet would melt or fall into the sea in the first thousand years" based on model projections, according to a previous NYT report. The first installment of Gillis's three-part series claimed Antarctica "may have entered the early stages of an unstoppable disintegration," but later in the series admitted the glacier NYT reporters toured with scientists "seems stable now." Even so, the effects of any current global warming on Antarctica are unclear. The South Pole's western ice sheet has been shedding mass for decades, but part of that has to do with underground volcanic activity and the fact the ice sheet rests on water. Recent evidence suggests the Antarctic peninsula has been cooling since the late 1990s. A recent study found the region "has shifted from a warming trend of 0.32 °C/decade during 1979–1997 to a cooling trend of − 0.47 °C/decade during 1999–2014." Antarctica's eastern ice sheet seems more stable, and may have even been gaining mass in recent decades.A 2015 study by NASA found Antarctica's ice sheet increased in mass from 1992 to 2008. The study found ice gains in Eastern Antarctica offset ice loss from the west. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	True
314	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-10-01	Judge John Keenan wrote in his opinion at the time that legislative branch was the appropriate arena to address global warming.	NYC's lawsuit does appear to suggest the intent is not to destroy but rather to mitigate harm."	he City does not seek to impose liability on Defendants for their direct emissions of greenhouse gases and does not seek to restrain Defendants from engaging in their business operations," the city wrote in its complaint.	They argue that Exxon and others should pony-up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change.A judge dismissed lawsuits in Oakland and San Francisco, arguing that the U.S. Congress is only the governmental body responsible for enacting policies needed to mitigate global warming.	"And really what we're trying to do is affect the bottom line- the financial equation for the use of fossil fuels," she said."		Enviro Lawyer's Comments At NYC's Climate Week Could Sink City's Climate Crusade One of the attorneys heading New York City's climate litigation made comments in September that could seriously harm the city's mission to sue oil companies for contributing to global warming. New York City's climate lawsuits are ultimately designed to target the industry's financial bottom line, Susan Amron, the chief of the environmental law division of the New York City Law Department, said at a Sept. 26 panel discussion during the Climate Week NYC." o, we're not saying you can't use fossil fuels, that's a different part of the city's efforts," Amron said during the panel, noting also that the lawsuit is designed to impress on companies the need to "internalize the costs" fossil fuels impose on cities. She appeared to contradict herself a few sentences later, telling the audience that the intent is really to eliminate the oil industry's license to operate. "And really what we're trying to do is affect the bottom line- the financial equation for the use of fossil fuels," she said." e just acted, and I want to urge every city, every county, every state to do the same – divest. Divest from the fossil fuel industry," De Blasio told the Vermont Democrat at the time. "Let's help bring the death knell to this industry that's done so much harm." The lawsuit was dismissed in July a handful of months after De Blasio made his comment. Judge John Keenan wrote in his opinion at the time that legislative branch was the appropriate arena to address global warming. NYC's lawsuit does appear to suggest the intent is not to destroy but rather to mitigate harm." he City does not seek to impose liability on Defendants for their direct emissions of greenhouse gases and does not seek to restrain Defendants from engaging in their business operations," the city wrote in its complaint. Amron's admission will likely create challenges for the city's appeal, which is slated to begin in front of the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals soon. Neither Amron nor New York City's Law Department have responded to The Daily Caller News Foundation's request for an explanation about the lawsuit is designed to hammer the oil industry or for mitigation purposes. Other climate lawsuits across the country are similarly on the ropes. Cities in California, Colorado and Rhode Island have also filed similar lawsuits against energy producers over the past year. They argue that Exxon and others should pony-up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change.A judge dismissed lawsuits in Oakland and San Francisco, arguing that the U.S. Congress is only the governmental body responsible for enacting policies needed to mitigate global warming. Manufacturers and conservative groups worry trial attorneys are behind the spat of climate litigation. Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings, called a contingency fee. (RELATED: Trial Lawyers Handling Cities' Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions)Hagens Berman stood to earn billions of dollars in contingency fees depending on the total winnings, from a favorable judgement against oil companies. The three cities claimed billions of dollars' worth of damage from global warming induced by fossil fuels.	False
525	npr	left_center_bias	2018-02-07	What does this all mean for humanity?	Instead, says O'Neill, "generally the countries that do well on the social indicators do so by consuming resources at a level that could not be extended to all people on the planet."	But he cautions against concluding that there's simply no way for everyone to enjoy a decent life without destroying the planet.	If We Bring The Good Life To All, Will We Destroy The Planet?Our blog often features stories about efforts to improve life for this planet's 7 billion inhabitants: How to make sure everyone has access to clean water and power, medical care to stay healthy, enough income to feed their kids, education for the children so they can fulfill their potential.	"And the countries that do well on the environmental indicators — in other words, that are consuming resources at a sustainable level — don't do well on the social indicators."	Specifically, O'Neill and his fellow researchers ran statistical tests to determine for each environmental measure how much damage it takes to produce a corresponding improvement on each of the social well-being indicators." <sep> "As we increase our resource use we get almost no increase in human well-being from that." <sep> "So there's a turning point after which additional resource use contributes very little to social performance." <sep> If We Bring The Good Life To All, Will We Destroy The Planet? <sep> The hope was to find at least a few examples of countries that were simultaneously delivering the good life to their citizens while staying within their per capita boundaries for environmental damage — in other words, using natural resources at a rate that would be sustainable even if every person on the planet matched it. <sep> Only one country comes even close to delivering the good life in a sustainable way: Vietnam succeeds on six of social indicators — including a life expectancy above 65 years and providing sufficient nutrition — while staying within its limit on every environmental threshold except carbon emissions. <sep> But a new study in the Journal Nature Sustainability poses a question not often considered: If we were to succeed in providing all this, what would be the cost to the environment?In other words, can our planet actually sustain the good life for all?As we improve the human condition – building sanitation facilities and expanding farming to provide more food, for example – we necessarily damage the environment. <sep> "Then they analyzed the data on 150 countries to determine how they scored on both the environmental and the social fronts. <sep> So to figure out if we can meet everyone's basic needs without destroying the planet, we need to know: For each bit of progress on the human front, how much harm is done on the environmental side?To find out, Daniel O'Neill — an economist at the University of Leeds in the United Kingdom — and several collaborators came up with 11 indicators that a country has met the needs of its citizens. <sep> 	If We Bring The Good Life To All, Will We Destroy The Planet? If We Bring The Good Life To All, Will We Destroy The Planet?Our blog often features stories about efforts to improve life for this planet's 7 billion inhabitants: How to make sure everyone has access to clean water and power, medical care to stay healthy, enough income to feed their kids, education for the children so they can fulfill their potential. But a new study in the Journal Nature Sustainability poses a question not often considered: If we were to succeed in providing all this, what would be the cost to the environment?In other words, can our planet actually sustain the good life for all?As we improve the human condition – building sanitation facilities and expanding farming to provide more food, for example – we necessarily damage the environment. We cut down trees, we put fertilizers in the soil that kill off aquatic life, we pump carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. So to figure out if we can meet everyone's basic needs without destroying the planet, we need to know: For each bit of progress on the human front, how much harm is done on the environmental side?To find out, Daniel O'Neill — an economist at the University of Leeds in the United Kingdom — and several collaborators came up with 11 indicators that a country has met the needs of its citizens. They range from boosting life expectancy above age 65 to ensuring that at least 95 percent of its adult population has graduated from high school, has access to sanitation and earns more than the extreme poverty line of $1.90 a day. Then they looked at seven key ways in which humans damage the environment. For each of these, scientists have calculated what degree of damage would put the planet at risk. In the case of carbon emissions, for instance, the threshold is the total amount that humanity can emit before we will cause the planet to warm enough to trigger catastrophic weather changes. From that, "we can calculate a carbon budget for the rest of the century," notes O'Neill. And then dividing that by the number of people on the planet, "we can say, 'okay this is the carbon budget per person.' "Then they analyzed the data on 150 countries to determine how they scored on both the environmental and the social fronts. The hope was to find at least a few examples of countries that were simultaneously delivering the good life to their citizens while staying within their per capita boundaries for environmental damage — in other words, using natural resources at a rate that would be sustainable even if every person on the planet matched it. Unfortunately, "we really didn't find that," says O'Neill. Instead, says O'Neill, "generally the countries that do well on the social indicators do so by consuming resources at a level that could not be extended to all people on the planet." These include Germany, the Netherlands and Austria. "And the countries that do well on the environmental indicators — in other words, that are consuming resources at a sustainable level — don't do well on the social indicators." Examples include Malawi, Yemen and the Philippines. There are also five countries that do damage above all seven of the environmental boundaries even as they fail to achieve all 11 social indicators. This includes the United States — which misses the mark when it comes to income equality and employment. China is arguably in even worse shape. It exceeds its per capita limits on five of the seven environmental thresholds yet only delivers on three of the social measures. Only one country comes even close to delivering the good life in a sustainable way: Vietnam succeeds on six of social indicators — including a life expectancy above 65 years and providing sufficient nutrition — while staying within its limit on every environmental threshold except carbon emissions. What does this all mean for humanity?"It's a worrying finding," says O'Neill. But he cautions against concluding that there's simply no way for everyone to enjoy a decent life without destroying the planet. After all, these findings are based on how we are doing things now, he says." We certainly hope it's possible to do things better — to achieve a high level of human well-being at a much lower level of resource use." And he adds that this study actually points to one way to do that. Specifically, O'Neill and his fellow researchers ran statistical tests to determine for each environmental measure how much damage it takes to produce a corresponding improvement on each of the social well-being indicators." And what we find is that it follows a curve of diminishing returns — as you use more resources you get less social bang for your buck," says O'Neill. "So there's a turning point after which additional resource use contributes very little to social performance." Wealthy industrialized nations such as the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada have now reached that point, says O'Neill. "As we increase our resource use we get almost no increase in human well-being from that." And this means the strategy of growing the economy — basically trying to create new wealth — to boost the well-being of its underprivileged citizens is ineffective. A much better approach, argues O'Neill, would be to focus on redistributing the wealth we already have more equitably. And if high-income countries were to adapt such a philosophy, says O'Neill, they could reduce their use of resources. And that, he says would "free up the ecological space" for poor nations – for whom using resources still does make a big impact in improving people's lives.	False
20	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-11-01	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPCorrection: A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	It was only about past events.	ne key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages," University of Chicago professor and the study's co-author, Malte Jansen, said in a statement.	AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING, NEW STUDY FINDS"What this suggests is that it's a feedback loop," said the study's lead author, Alice Marzocchi.	"We are pretty confident that the carbon balance between the atmosphere and ocean must have changed, but we don't quite know how or why."		Explosion in Antarctic sea ice levels may cause another ice age? Upside-down "rivers" of warm ocean water may be one of the causes of Antarctica's ice shelves breaking up, leading to a rise in sea levels. A new study suggests that, in the past, increases in Antarctic sea ice in colder climates may have contributed to ice ages. Using computer simulations, the research looked at past changes during the glacial periods and noted that previous increases in sea ice levels may have significantly altered the circulation of the ocean, which led to a reverse greenhouse effect as carbon dioxide levels in the ocean increased and levels in the air decreased." ne key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages," University of Chicago professor and the study's co-author, Malte Jansen, said in a statement. "We are pretty confident that the carbon balance between the atmosphere and ocean must have changed, but we don't quite know how or why." ANTARCTICA'S ICE SHEETS CONTAIN RADIOACTIVE CHLORINE GAS 60 YEARS AFTER NUCLEAR TESTS, STUDY SAYSThe last major ice age ended at the end of the Pleistocene epoch, about 11,700 years ago, as glaciers have periodically grown and then gotten smaller. Researchers believe that changes to the Earth's orbit may be partly responsible for some of the Earth's cooling, but additional factors have likely played a part, Jensen added." he most plausible explanation is that there was some change in how carbon was divided between the atmosphere and the ocean," Jansen continued. "There's no shortage of ideas about how this happens, but it's not quite clear how they all fit together." Researchers also believe a mini-ice age may have occurred roughly 12,800 years ago. It likely stems from an asteroid impact that "rocked the Northern Hemisphere" and led to the Younger Dryas climate event. Jansen pointed out that the Southern Ocean around Antarctica "plays a key role in ocean circulation" due to the deep waters in the region, leading it to have "outsize[d] consequences." AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING, NEW STUDY FINDS"What this suggests is that it's a feedback loop," said the study's lead author, Alice Marzocchi. "As the temperature drops, less carbon is released into the atmosphere, which triggers more cooling." What surprised me is how much of this increased storage can be attributed to physical changes alone, with Antarctic sea-ice cover being the key player," Marzocchi added, noting that future study of the ocean and the role it plays in the carbon cycle can help simulate "future environmental change." The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPCorrection: A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events. It was only about past events.	False
180	npr	left_center_bias	2019-02-08	Environmental groups generally support the resolution."	We need not to discourage them," she says.	They've got to getan answer to us by Feb. 26 or face the consequences," warns Ornstein.	"They have an energy and will toinnovation that is not only infectious, but inspiring."	They need to do a whole lot more homework and much more research and analysisbefore we can ever even really engage in this discussion," says Colin Woodall,senior vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen's BeefAssociation.		Despite Few Details And Much Doubt, The Green New Deal Generates Enthusiasm Environmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader NancyPelosi this past December. They plan more sit-ins to push for support of asweeping resolution to address climate change. **J. Scott Applewhite/AP******hide caption********toggle caption****J. Scott Applewhite/APEnvironmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader NancyPelosi this past December. They plan more sit-ins to push for support of asweeping resolution to address climate change.J. Scott Applewhite/APFor a nonbinding resolution with an uncertain future, ) is getting a lot of attention, along with a decidedly mixed reaction. Dozens of Democrats on Thursday )the measure, an ambitious framework for futurelegislation designed to eliminate the U.S. carbon footprint by 2030." Our energy future will not be found in the dark of a mine but in the light ofthe sun," said Sen. Ed Markey, D-Mass., as he announced the legislation onCapitol Hill. The resolution has few details, but it aims to overhaul the U.S. economy andspread wealth more evenly. It calls for a speedy shift in energy generation,from fossil fuels to renewable sources like wind and solar, and for "a fairand just transition for all communities and workers." Much of the early criticism revolves around the scope of the plan, whichbackers say is big to match the challenge of the climate change problem." All great American programs, everything from The Great Society to The NewDeal, started with a vision for our future," said co-sponsor Rep. AlexandriaOcasio-Cortez, D-N.Y. But this vision is for an extremely near-term future."I'm afraid I just cannot see how we could possibly go to zero carbon in a10-year time frame," former Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz tells NPR's _AllThings Considered_. Moniz, now CEO of Energy Futures Initiative, agrees that the U.S. needs to"pick up the pace" of its shift away from carbon, but he calls the decade-longtime frame "impractical." He worries it could turn off key constituenciesneeded in the climate effort, including labor unions, oil companies and thebusiness community.I'm afraid I just cannot see how we could possibly go to zero carbon in a10-year time frame. Ernest Moniz, former energy secretary and CEO of Energy Futures InitiativeThe Green New Deal doesn't even mention some of the usual ideas for addressingclimate change, such as a carbon tax or cap-and-trade program. Instead, itcalls for lots of spending to create, among other things, infrastructure andtransport that don't rely on fossil fuels. Environmental groups generally support the resolution." It is a breath of fresh air to see leaders in Congress discussing climatesolutions that rise to the scale of the challenge," said Aliya Haq, federalpolicy director for the Climate & Clean Energy Program at the NaturalResources Defense Council ). But some groups were disappointed the plan doesn't call for a complete end tousing fossil fuels." We have 12 years, according to science, if we're going to meet the challengeof the climate crisis. And to do that we have to tackle fossil fuels head-on. And the resolution just doesn't quite get us there," says Nicole Ghio, seniorfossil fuel program manager at Friends of the Earth. The oil industry says it's already reducing greenhouse gas emissions in theelectricity sector as coal plants switch to natural gas.**"They need to do a whole lot more homework"**These days, ). Green New Deal backers say they want more high-speed trains to make airlinetravel less necessary, and more electric cars and charging stations. Butexperts warn that changing the existing fleet of cars in the U.S. would be anextraordinary effort." There's 350 million liquid fuel cars on the road today in the United Statesand most Americans don't buy a new car except every decade," says Amy MyersJaffe, director of the program on Energy Security and Climate Change at theCouncil on Foreign Relations. Green New Deal backers say they also want to eventually phase out nuclearenergy, which currently supplies 20 percent of electricity in the U.S. TheNuclear Energy Institute ) that its electricity is carbon-free andshould be a part of any program addressing climate change. The proposal takes aim at methane from cows, too. Methane is an especiallypotent greenhouse gas, and cows produce a lot of it. But the beef industry isat a loss to respond because of the lack of details in the Green New Deal." They need to do a whole lot more homework and much more research and analysisbefore we can ever even really engage in this discussion," says Colin Woodall,senior vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen's BeefAssociation. So far the plan's biggest success may be that it's energizing thousands ofyoung activists.A group called the Sunrise Movement held a ) around the country Tuesday. Jeremy Ornstein, 18, says he deferredgoing to college to work with the organization. Ornstein is among the Sunrise Movement organizers who plan three weeks ofactivism, including lobbying members of Congress to sign onto the Green NewDeal." And we're going to give our elected officials a deadline. They've got to getan answer to us by Feb. 26 or face the consequences," warns Ornstein. He saysactivists around the country will occupy members' offices in what the groupcalls a "nationwide day of action." Given the scope and ambitious nature of the Green New Deal, it might betempting to criticize or dismiss activists supporting it. But Amy Myers Jaffehopes older, more experienced policymakers won't do that." We need not to discourage them," she says. "They have an energy and will toinnovation that is not only infectious, but inspiring." And she says that could be what's needed to address a problem as daunting asclimate change.	False
716	CNN	left_bias	2017-09-14	Trump campaigned on a platform that rejected much of the scientific community's findings on climate change, arguing that the Obama administration used climate science too often to restrict business growth.	Mick Mulvaney, the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget, told CNN that climate change is a "longer discussion on another day" and a "big topic for the media."	Trump pulled out of the Paris Climate accords earlier this year and had previously had called climate change a "hoax" perpetrated by the Chinese.	Trump's comments Thursday go against the hyperbolic language he used in the lead-up and aftermath of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma.	"They've never seen a category like this come in because it came in really at a five," he said.		Trump dismisses climate change question by contradicting himself on hurricanes Trump, speaking to reporters aboard Air Force One on Thursday after touring damage from Hurricane Irma on Florida's west coast, said "we've had bigger storms than this" when asked about climate change." If you go back into the 1930s and the 1940s, and you take a look, we've had storms over the years that have been bigger than this," Trump said. "If you go back into the teens, you'll see storms that were as big or bigger. So we did have two horrific storms, epic storms, but if you go back into the '30s and '40s, and you go back into the teens, you'll see storms that were very similar and even bigger, OK?"In response to this story, a White House aide pointed CNN to a recent NOAA report that found that it is "premature to conclude that human activities ... have already had a detectable impact on Atlantic hurricane or global tropical cyclone activity." That same report, however, found that human activity "may have already caused changes" and that global warming "will likely cause tropical cyclones globally to be more intense on average" and "lead to an increase in the occurrence of very intense tropical cyclone(s)." Trump campaigned on a platform that rejected much of the scientific community's findings on climate change, arguing that the Obama administration used climate science too often to restrict business growth. Trump pulled out of the Paris Climate accords earlier this year and had previously had called climate change a "hoax" perpetrated by the Chinese. Trump's comments Thursday go against the hyperbolic language he used in the lead-up and aftermath of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma. "Hurricane Irma is of epic proportion, perhaps bigger than we have ever seen," Trump tweeted as Irma moved closer to Florida. Earlier this month he tweeted , "Hurricane looks like largest ever recorded in the Atlantic!" And on Thursday in Florida, before his comments aboard Air Force One about climate change, Trump said the people of Florida experienced something "the likes of which we can say really say nobody's ever seen before." "They've never seen a category like this come in because it came in really at a five," he said. Top Trump administration officials have repeatedly dodged questions about how climate change affected the damage done by hurricanes Harvey and Irma, saying the issue should be discussed at a later date. said last week it was "insensitive" to address global warming at this time. said last week it was "insensitive" to address global warming at this time. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt said last week it was "insensitive" to address global warming at this time. Mick Mulvaney, the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget, told CNN that climate change is a "longer discussion on another day" and a "big topic for the media." And both FEMA administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering when asked Tuesday whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of the storms. Trump's visit to tour hurricane damage on Thursday was his second trip in as many weeks. Trump toured the Houston area earlier this month after Hurricane Harvey brought massive flooding to the city. The storm and subsequent damage could end up being the costliest natural disaster in US history.	False
289	dailymail	questionable_source	2019-08-26	We've become much richer country and that's a good thing, not a bad thing because that great wealth allows us to take care of people,' Trump said.	And that's what we're doing.	'We can take care of people that we couldn't afford taking care of the past because of the great wealth we can't let that wealth is taken away clean air clean water – thank you very much everybody I appreciate it, thank you,' he concluded.	I want clean water I want a wealthy country.	'I went the cleanest water on earth.		Trump skipped G7 climate session and thought meeting hadn't happened yet President Donald Trump proclaimed himself an 'environmentalist' Monday after missing a climate change discussion on Monday with other world leaders at the G7 summit in Biarritz, France. At a press conference, the president said he knows 'more about the environment than most people' in part due to his time as a builder, when environmental concerns often pose last-minute roadblocks to a project. At a summit where relentless fires in the Amazon provided a backdrop, Trump did not respond directly when asked if he still harbored doubts about global warming, vouching for his environmental credentials by pointing to numerous environmental impact statements he has been involved with.'I went the cleanest water on earth. I want to cleanest air on earth. And that's what we're doing. I'm an environmentalist,' Trump told reporters at the end of the summit.'A lot of people don't understand that I have done more environmental impact statements probably than anybody, that's I guess I can say definitely because I've done many, many, many of them. More than anybody that's ever been president or vice president or anything even close to president. And I think I know more about the environment than most people,' he said. Trump was referencing his time as a builder, when an environmental review is part of the construction process. Although he steered clear of the global warming debate, after long expressing doubts, Trump touted the value of U.S. oil and liquified national gas reserves, and called for new infrastructure to harness it. He said the domestic industry is creating 'tremendous wealth, and LNG is being sought over all over Europe and all over the world.''I'm not going to lose that wealth. I'm not going to lose it on dreams — on windmills, which, frankly, aren't working too well,' Trump said, once again taking a shot at a growing renewable energy source.'I want clean air. I want clean water I want a wealthy country. I want a spectacular country with jobs, with pensions, with so many things and that's what we're getting so I want to be very careful at the same time at the same time … it's very important to me, very important to me, we have to maintain this incredible – this incredible place that we've all built. We've become much richer country and that's a good thing, not a bad thing because that great wealth allows us to take care of people,' Trump said. He concluded his remarks with some environmental boosterism.'We can take care of people that we couldn't afford taking care of the past because of the great wealth we can't let that wealth is taken away clean air clean water – thank you very much everybody I appreciate it, thank you,' he concluded. Trump was scheduled to attend the session on climate, biodiversity and oceans, but his chair remained empty while other leaders pledged a modest $20 million to help put out fires that are raging across wide swaths of the Amazon jungles in Brazil.'He wasn't in the room but his team was there,' French President Emmanuel Macron said. The White House attributed his absence to scheduled one-on-one meetings that he attended with India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi and German Chancellor Angela Merkel – both of whom managed to attend.'The President had scheduled meetings and bilaterals with Germany and India, so a senior member of the Administration attended in his stead,' White House Press Secretary Stephanie Grisham told DailyMail. com and other news outlets.A White House official said the stand-in was an aide from the National Security Council. Trump started the morning behind schedule. His meeting with Merkel was delayed about two hours. Asked about the global warming meeting during a photo-op with Merkel, the president said: 'We're having it in a little while.'He had no reply to a journalist who informed him that it was already underway. During his meeting with Modi, Trump said that he wants 'clean air and clean water,' but made no comment about his decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate accord. He did offer, however, that the climate change discussion would be his next stop. That never materialized. Trump is a climate change skeptic who once claimed it was a hoax invented by the Chinese. United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said Monday that the world faces 'a dramatic climate emergency.' He will ask leaders at a Sept. 23 summit in New York to agree to cut greenhouse gas emissions by more than they promised in the 2015 Paris agreement. Guterres said Monday that 'we are much worse than we were during Paris ... and so it's absolutely essential that countries commit themselves to increase what was promised.'Guterres claimed that Greenland's ice cap was melting 'dramatically' and that 2015 through 2019 were 'the five hottest years on record.'	False
880	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-09-21	But before you ring up your grandchildren and warn them to cancel the marquee they've booked for their 100th birthday celebrations, perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothman's cheery prediction.	So what you're saying, Dr Rothman, is that you're allowing plus or minus 10,000 years' leeway for this mass extinction which won't definitely happen but which "may" happen.	If we get a repeat of the Great Dying, 275 million years ago, what this means basically is that we are all going to die.	"This is not saying that disaster occurs the next day," Rothman says.	Do you know what?		Delingpole: Mass Extinction Apocalypse Will Begin Around 2100 Claims MIT Professor According to Daniel Rothman, professor of geophysics in the MIT Department of Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences and co-director of MIT's Lorenz Center, we are fast approaching "thresholds of catastrophe" in the carbon cycle which make doom almost inevitable. In a paper published today in Science Advances, he proposes that mass extinction occurs if one of two thresholds are crossed: For changes in the carbon cycle that occur over long timescales, extinctions will follow if those changes occur at rates faster than global ecosystems can adapt. For carbon perturbations that take place over shorter timescales, the pace of carbon-cycle changes will not matter; instead, the size or magnitude of the change will determine the likelihood of an extinction event. Taking this reasoning forward in time, Rothman predicts that, given the recent rise in carbon dioxide emissions over a relatively short timescale, a sixth extinction will depend on whether a critical amount of carbon is added to the oceans. That amount, he calculates, is about 310 gigatons, which he estimates to be roughly equivalent to the amount of carbon that human activities will have added to the world's oceans by the year 2100. If we get a repeat of the Great Dying, 275 million years ago, what this means basically is that we are all going to die. Even you. But before you ring up your grandchildren and warn them to cancel the marquee they've booked for their 100th birthday celebrations, perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothman's cheery prediction. First, let's not forget it that it is flatly contradicted by the recent bombshell study suggesting that the effects of carbon dioxide on global warming have been overstated, that the computer models are running "too hot" and that we're not about to fry any time soon. Second, Rothman appears to have given himself so much margin for error as to render his doomsday projection meaningless. Does this mean that mass extinction will soon follow at the turn of the century? Rothman says it would take some time — about 10,000 years — for such ecological disasters to play out. However, he says that by 2100 the world may have tipped into "unknown territory." "This is not saying that disaster occurs the next day," Rothman says. "It's saying that, if left unchecked, the carbon cycle would move into a realm which would be no longer stable, and would behave in a way that would be difficult to predict. In the geologic past, this type of behavior is associated with mass extinction."R-i-g-h-t. So what you're saying, Dr Rothman, is that you're allowing plus or minus 10,000 years' leeway for this mass extinction which won't definitely happen but which "may" happen. Do you know what? Even though I'm not a professor of geophysics at MIT, I think even I could have come up with a scientific theory as rock-solid and testable as that one.	False
651	National Review	right_bias	2017-09-02	It is, after all, the measure of one's moral fitness to value some things (say, forgiveness) over others (vengeance).	When organized religion fades and its would-be adherents are left to search for meaning, does the god of the environment end their search for a moral authority?Pardon the extended biblical analogy, but Vox's piece sounds more than a bit like Judas Iscariot's laments about the funeral rituals performed on Christ.	That statement not only describes Judas's moral disorder but also reminds the audience that any concern, holy as it may be — poverty reduction, environmental protection, or any other earthly mission — that does not give a preferential deference to God, His creation, and acts of beauty such as that of Mary Magdalene are sure signs of misaligned priorities.	Each individual has values, good and bad, and they often remain in tension with one another.	We all hold a hierarchy of values.	For most people of good conscience, the value of a human being's life supersedes that of our dog or a backyard plant. <sep> To commit the soul of the decedent to his final reward? <sep> As the oft-repeated refrain goes, is environmentalist hysteria the inevitable fate of a society that ceases to believe in God? <sep> When Mary Magdalene anoints Christ with perfumes and oil as a pre-burial ritual on a night leading up to His execution, a livid Judas berates her gesture, protesting that the money used to buy the perfume could have been spent on "the poor." <sep> What makes radical environmentalism, and its private-jet-flying propagators, so toxic a cultural beast is how high on its adherents' totem pole they are willing to place environmental concerns, often over some of the most elemental human needs and desires. <sep> We routinely delay temporal pleasure, for example, in the hopes of attaining goals we hold in higher esteem, such as when we diet, exercise, or volunteer. <sep> What is most remarkable is the piece's bizarre stance on this debate — Peterson's primary concern appears to be getting rid of Grandma with as small of a carbon footprint as possible, rather than reverence, intergenerational remembrance, or even concern for the grieving. <sep> For most normal people, funerary concerns are primarily about memorializing the deceased within the reasonable bounds of one's budget. <sep> It's yet another instance of the environmentally conscious Left virtue-signaling about the negative effects of nearly everything human beings do: Not even the way we mourn our dead is safe from their parade of moral superiority. <sep> John's Gospel provides the relevant addendum: "He did not say this because he cared about the poor but because he was a thief; as keeper of the money bag, he used to help himself to what was put into it." <sep> We make decisions every day accordingly. <sep> Or an opportunity to extol your passion for environmental justice?A recent Vox piece by Dean Peterson states with dogged solemnity that "modern burials are awful for the environment," and has an accompanying video whose combination of animation, the veneer of open-mindedness, and a vocally inflective narrator discreetly blurs the line between providing information and outright advocacy. <sep> It's totally legitimate to criticize modern burials; on its face, the piece seems a cogent critique of excesses in the funeral industry. <sep> But what is particularly troubling about Vox's article is its larger point — that we as humans must give perpetual deference to some vague conception of "environmentalism" at most any cost. <sep> The piece and video discuss the environmental effects of American funerals, with their caskets, embalming fluid, and grave sites. <sep> Vox Ruins Funerals in a Quest for Environmental Justice What is the goal of a funeral? <sep> Either way, that's a lot of money, of course, but the point is not to expiate upon the market forces driving prices in the funeral industry. <sep> It's an odd calculus at play in the author's mind, where the ultimate barometer of a funeral's efficacy is its environmental impact statement. <sep> This piece from Vox forces us to ask the question: At what point does genuine concern for the environment turn into a power grab so vicious that one would rather soak Grandpa in liquid nitrogen than give him a proper burial?– John Hirschauer is a senior economics student at Fairfield University, a columnist for the Fairfield Mirror, and the host of The Outlet with John Hirschauer radio program. <sep> Peterson's video notes that, in this strange race to the environmental bottom, some advocates believe burying Aunt Lisa in a casket is an alarming degradation of the environment — some might even want her tossed straight into the ground. <sep> In this Vox piece, it appears that some environmentalists have shifted focused to the other side of life's journey: death, and more specifically, how we bury our loved ones. <sep> Maybe, he suggests, readers could consider "freezing [their bodies] with liquid nitrogen or having [their] ashes turned into a coral reef." <sep> 	Vox Ruins Funerals in a Quest for Environmental Justice What is the goal of a funeral? Is it to pay tribute to a life lost? To commit the soul of the decedent to his final reward? Or an opportunity to extol your passion for environmental justice?A recent Vox piece by Dean Peterson states with dogged solemnity that "modern burials are awful for the environment," and has an accompanying video whose combination of animation, the veneer of open-mindedness, and a vocally inflective narrator discreetly blurs the line between providing information and outright advocacy. It's yet another instance of the environmentally conscious Left virtue-signaling about the negative effects of nearly everything human beings do: Not even the way we mourn our dead is safe from their parade of moral superiority. The piece and video discuss the environmental effects of American funerals, with their caskets, embalming fluid, and grave sites. The piece claims the average burial costs up to $12,000, though the National Funeral Directors Association's most recent report indicated average costs almost $3,500 less than that. Either way, that's a lot of money, of course, but the point is not to expiate upon the market forces driving prices in the funeral industry. What is most remarkable is the piece's bizarre stance on this debate — Peterson's primary concern appears to be getting rid of Grandma with as small of a carbon footprint as possible, rather than reverence, intergenerational remembrance, or even concern for the grieving. We all hold a hierarchy of values. For most people of good conscience, the value of a human being's life supersedes that of our dog or a backyard plant. We make decisions every day accordingly. We routinely delay temporal pleasure, for example, in the hopes of attaining goals we hold in higher esteem, such as when we diet, exercise, or volunteer. Each individual has values, good and bad, and they often remain in tension with one another. It is, after all, the measure of one's moral fitness to value some things (say, forgiveness) over others (vengeance). What makes radical environmentalism, and its private-jet-flying propagators, so toxic a cultural beast is how high on its adherents' totem pole they are willing to place environmental concerns, often over some of the most elemental human needs and desires. The wish to have additional children, for example, is a cause for deep apprehension among environmentalists, who seem all at once indifferent and tone-deaf to how out of touch such a sentiment is. In this Vox piece, it appears that some environmentalists have shifted focused to the other side of life's journey: death, and more specifically, how we bury our loved ones. For most normal people, funerary concerns are primarily about memorializing the deceased within the reasonable bounds of one's budget. Peterson's video notes that, in this strange race to the environmental bottom, some advocates believe burying Aunt Lisa in a casket is an alarming degradation of the environment — some might even want her tossed straight into the ground. Maybe, he suggests, readers could consider "freezing [their bodies] with liquid nitrogen or having [their] ashes turned into a coral reef." It's an odd calculus at play in the author's mind, where the ultimate barometer of a funeral's efficacy is its environmental impact statement. It's totally legitimate to criticize modern burials; on its face, the piece seems a cogent critique of excesses in the funeral industry. But what is particularly troubling about Vox's article is its larger point — that we as humans must give perpetual deference to some vague conception of "environmentalism" at most any cost. As the oft-repeated refrain goes, is environmentalist hysteria the inevitable fate of a society that ceases to believe in God? When organized religion fades and its would-be adherents are left to search for meaning, does the god of the environment end their search for a moral authority?Pardon the extended biblical analogy, but Vox's piece sounds more than a bit like Judas Iscariot's laments about the funeral rituals performed on Christ. When Mary Magdalene anoints Christ with perfumes and oil as a pre-burial ritual on a night leading up to His execution, a livid Judas berates her gesture, protesting that the money used to buy the perfume could have been spent on "the poor." John's Gospel provides the relevant addendum: "He did not say this because he cared about the poor but because he was a thief; as keeper of the money bag, he used to help himself to what was put into it." That statement not only describes Judas's moral disorder but also reminds the audience that any concern, holy as it may be — poverty reduction, environmental protection, or any other earthly mission — that does not give a preferential deference to God, His creation, and acts of beauty such as that of Mary Magdalene are sure signs of misaligned priorities. This piece from Vox forces us to ask the question: At what point does genuine concern for the environment turn into a power grab so vicious that one would rather soak Grandpa in liquid nitrogen than give him a proper burial?– John Hirschauer is a senior economics student at Fairfield University, a columnist for the Fairfield Mirror, and the host of The Outlet with John Hirschauer radio program.	True
811	USA Today	left_center_bias	2017-10-23	This type of political interference or scientific censorship — whatever you want to call it — is ill-advised and does a real disservice to the American people and public health.	It informs decision makers.	"So there is no reason for it to have to be this way.	And it should not take away from the terrific scientific work that is being done, because at the heart of all this is not the politics, it's the knowledge."	I hope the Trump administration will look at the facts, read this report, and reconsider its stance on trying to muzzle scientists who present evidence that doesn't conform to their political agenda."		Furor erupts over EPA decision to pull climate scientists from panel discussion WASHINGTON — The Environmental Protection Agency is drawing heat for pulling its scientists from a panel discussion Monday in Rhode Island as part of a conference spotlighting the effects of climate change on the Narragansett Bay. The withdrawal of the two scientists as well as an agency consultant has sparked fresh criticism about EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt's skepticism toward the broad scientific community's conclusion that human-caused global warming is a proven fact and a growing concern. The conference where the scientists were scheduled to speak coincided with the release of a report showing the threats of climate change to Narragansett Bay, the 196- square-mile estuary whose watershed encompasses 1,705 square miles with more than 100 towns and cities that are home to nearly 2 million people." Climate change is affecting air and water temperatures, precipitation, sea level, and fish in the Narragansett Bay region," the report, which was partially funded by the EPA, concludes. Narragansett Bay is one of 28 estuaries that make up the National Estuary Program, an EPA program designed "to protect and restore the water quality and ecological integrity of estuaries of national significance." Rhode Island's two U.S. senators — Democrats Jack Reed and Sheldon Whitehouse — criticized the EPA's decision during an appearance Monday at the conference in Providence, R.I." This has traditionally been a bipartisan issue," Whitehouse said, citing former Rhode Island GOP Sen. John Chafee's role establishing the estuary program. "So there is no reason for it to have to be this way.  And it should not take away from the terrific scientific work that is being done, because at the heart of all this is not the politics, it's the knowledge." Reed said he was "disheartened and disappointed" that the EPA scientists were not allowed to publicly present their findings." This type of political interference or scientific censorship — whatever you want to call it — is ill-advised and does a real disservice to the American people and public health. Scientific evidence and input is crucial to policy efforts.  It informs decision makers. We can debate the issues, we can have different viewpoints but we should all be able to objectively examine the data and look at the evidence ... Now is not the time to turn a blind eye to what science is telling us, that climate change and other factors are influencing the health of this estuary ... I hope the Trump administration will look at the facts, read this report, and reconsider its stance on trying to muzzle scientists who present evidence that doesn't conform to their political agenda." The EPA has not responded to a request for comment. Agency spokesman John Konkus told The Washington Post  in an email Sunday that "EPA scientists are attending, they simply are not presenting, it is not an EPA conference." The agency officials initially scheduled to speak during the conference are Autumn Oczkowski, a research ecologist at the EPA's National Health and Environmental Effects Research Laboratory Atlantic Ecology Division in Rhode Island, and Rose Martin, a postdoctoral fellow at the same EPA laboratory, according to The New York Times, which first reported the story. Emily Shumchenia, an EPA consultant, was also scheduled to take part in an afternoon panel titled "The Present and Future Biological Implications of Climate Change." Analysis: Is the war on coal really over?	False
657	NewsBusters	right_bias	2017-09-12	The text box: "The pontiff says pro-life believers must defend the unity of the family."	"A paper loathe to credit Christianity for pro-life or traditional marriage views readily broadcasts the left-wing views of Pope Francis and in particular his bashing of Donald Trump:As he flew near Caribbean islands devastated by Hurricane Irma on his way back to the Vatican from Colombia on Sunday, Pope Francis said that political leaders and others who denied climate change reminded him of a passage from the psalms about man's stubbornness.	If he is a good pro-life believer he must understand that family is the cradle of life and one must defend its unity," said Francis, who in the past has said that advocates, like Mr. Trump, of a wall to keep out migrants on the Mexican border were "not Christian."	"Then," he said, "decide and history will judge the decisions."	Horowitz showed himself not so fond of more conservative Catholics in an August report for the Times in which he made common cause with a piece making the rounds of Catholic intellectual circles singling out "ultraconservative" Trump-supporting conservatives as dangerous: "From the Vatican, a Warning Shot for Hard-Line Catholics in the U.S." Meanwhile, reporter Lisa Friedman on Tuesday used a comment from the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to stick up for the tasteless global warming warriors now using the tragedy of Hurricane Irma to forward their environmental agenda, in "For E.P.A.	First up, the paper featured more odd respect for religion from its colorful left-wing reporter Jason Horowitz, in "Pope, in the Air, Puts Foot Down on Climate Change Denial and DACA Reversal." <sep> When the Times doesn't challenge a "pro-life" message, better read closely." <sep> "Man is stupid, the Bible said," he said. <sep> He presents himself as a man who is pro-life. <sep> In a typically wide-ranging news conference that included his questioning of United States President Donald J. Trump's commitment to issues of life because of his plan to strip undocumented immigrant children of protections from deportation, the pope urged those who denied climate change to consult scientists who had clearly determined it was real and that humanity would "go down" if global warming was not recognized and addressed. <sep> "It's like that, when you don't want to see, you don't see." <sep> Horowitz also used Pope Francis to criticize Trump's move to end DACA:On the flight, the pope nevertheless appealed again to Mr. Trump, this time on his decision to end President Obama's Deferred Action for Children Program, known as DACA. <sep> 	NY Times Uses Pope, Storm to Plug Climate Change In the wake of Hurricane Irma, the New York Times advanced the "climate change" agenda from every angle in Tuesday's edition. First up, the paper featured more odd respect for religion from its colorful left-wing reporter Jason Horowitz, in "Pope, in the Air, Puts Foot Down on Climate Change Denial and DACA Reversal." The text box: "The pontiff says pro-life believers must defend the unity of the family." And another Times reporter stuck up for the tasteless global warming warriors using Hurricane Irma to forward "climate change."A paper loathe to credit Christianity for pro-life or traditional marriage views readily broadcasts the left-wing views of Pope Francis and in particular his bashing of Donald Trump:As he flew near Caribbean islands devastated by Hurricane Irma on his way back to the Vatican from Colombia on Sunday, Pope Francis said that political leaders and others who denied climate change reminded him of a passage from the psalms about man's stubbornness. "Man is stupid, the Bible said," he said. "It's like that, when you don't want to see, you don't see." In a typically wide-ranging news conference that included his questioning of United States President Donald J. Trump's commitment to issues of life because of his plan to strip undocumented immigrant children of protections from deportation, the pope urged those who denied climate change to consult scientists who had clearly determined it was real and that humanity would "go down" if global warming was not recognized and addressed. "Then," he said, "decide and history will judge the decisions." During Mr. Trump's May visit to the Vatican, the pope gave him a copy of his 2015 encyclical letter, "Laudato Si," which called for a human response to global warming, and top Vatican officials appealed to the president not to withdraw from the landmark Paris climate accord. Weeks later, Mr. Trump pulled out of the agreement. It wasn't just global warming. Horowitz also used Pope Francis to criticize Trump's move to end DACA:On the flight, the pope nevertheless appealed again to Mr. Trump, this time on his decision to end President Obama's Deferred Action for Children Program, known as DACA. The program allows children brought illegally to the United States to stay without fear of deportation. Mr. Trump has given Congress, which has failed to pass immigration overhaul for the last decade, six months to enact legislation to resolve the status of about 800,000 people affected by his decision. When the Times doesn't challenge a "pro-life" message, better read closely."  hope they rethink it a bit," he said. "Because I heard the U.S. president speak. He presents himself as a man who is pro-life. If he is a good pro-life believer he must understand that family is the cradle of life and one must defend its unity," said Francis, who in the past has said that advocates, like Mr. Trump, of a wall to keep out migrants on the Mexican border were "not Christian." Horowitz showed himself not so fond of more conservative Catholics in an August report for the Times in which he made common cause with a piece making the rounds of Catholic intellectual circles singling out "ultraconservative" Trump-supporting conservatives as dangerous: "From the Vatican, a Warning Shot for Hard-Line Catholics in the U.S." Meanwhile, reporter Lisa Friedman on Tuesday used a comment from the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to stick up for the tasteless global warming warriors now using the tragedy of Hurricane Irma to forward their environmental agenda, in "For E.P.A. Chief, Discussing Climate After Storms Is 'Insensitive.'" The text box: "Concerns that the U.S. is dodging questions on global warming." Friedman found a Republican to mouth concern over climate change and promptly teed him up in paragraph two, while instantly identifying her by party (something the paper consistently fails to do with Democrats in trouble):Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, says it is insensitive to discuss climate change in the midst of deadly storms. Tomás Regalado, the Republican mayor of Miami whose citizens raced to evacuate before Hurricane Irma, says if not now, when? For scientists, drawing links between warming global temperatures and the ferocity of hurricanes is about as controversial as talking about geology after an earthquake. But in Washington, where science is increasingly political, the fact that oceans and atmosphere are warming and that the heat is propelling storms into superstorms has become as sensitive as talking about gun control in the wake of a mass shooting. Ben Kirtman, a professor of atmospheric science at the University of Miami's Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, said he believes failing to discuss climate change hurts Florida and the entire country. Dr. Kirtman and Dr. Berry are among a group of Florida scientists who confronted Governor Rick Scott in recent years for his refusal to acknowledge that human-made greenhouse gases are driving climate change. Last year they wrote a letter to then-candidate Donald J. Trump asking for a meeting to discuss the consequences of climate change in Florida. They said the Trump campaign never responded. In Florida, scientists say, Gov. Scott's aversion to even the words "climate change" have prompted scientists to self-censor their work. "If you write a proposal and it talks about fixing some infrastructure because of climate change, it's not going anywhere," Mr. Kirtman said. "You spend an awful lot of effort word-searching your document for the words 'climate' and 'change.' It's silliness." That is one reason many scientists maintain it is critical to use the megaphone that the dual devastation of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma has provided. People, they note, are finally paying attention. Friedman cited an obscure news source to make her case of benighted Republicans ignoring the obvious facts of climate change:	True
412	dailykos	left_bias	2018-09-05	To Janet, this is a moral issue.	I would predict the same percentages of belief would apply to Jordan's Ohio 4th Congressional District, plus or minus a few points.	(March 14, 2017, Gallup poll).	The pledge or vow is the product of Americans for Prosperity, the conservative political advocacy group, funded by David and Charles Koch.	These were matters that we have historically agreed on, if for no other reason than the sake of our children and grandchildren's future.	Let's take a closer look at this. <sep> This is the same Jim Jordan who less than three months later saw no evil and heard no evil in the Ohio State sex scandal that victimized some of Jordan's former wrestling students. <sep> In contrast, Janet Garrett, by philosophy an environmentalist, will push for and support an agenda that will guarantee clean water, clean air, and the reduction of greenhouse gasses. <sep> I wondered to myself how Jordan's credibility would hold up, when cross-examined in court on this issue, now that these incredible statements are in the public domain. <sep> Before I address that question, I just stumbled upon an article in the August 1, Washington Post. <sep> Garrett knows the value of Environmental Protection; on those who knowingly violate our statutes, Janet will push for criminal enforcement. <sep> And here's why Jordan will live on in villainy. <sep> Nowhere is that lie more obvious than in Jim Jordan's approach to global warming and general environmental issues. <sep> 	DID JIM JORDAN REALLY SELL HIS SOUL TO THE KOCH BROTHERS? Before I address that question, I just stumbled upon an article in the August 1, Washington Post.  There, the Post updated its truth squad totals on Donald Trump: 4,229 false and misleading statements in 558 days.I then reflected upon Anderson Cooper's infamous April 17, 2018 CNN interview of Jim Jordan.  In that interview, a fumbling Jordan firmly insisted, to Cooper's amazement, that he never heard Trump lie.  This is the same Jim Jordan who less than three months later saw no evil and heard no evil in the Ohio State sex scandal that victimized some of Jordan's former wrestling students. I wondered to myself how Jordan's credibility would hold up, when cross-examined in court on this issue, now that these incredible statements are in the public domain. No wonder Trump loves Jordan!  Every word Trump speaks is the "Truth" in Jordan's world. Sure Jordan's a politician, and all politicians lie at some time or another (see Adams, ).  But it's quite another thing when you live your entire Congressional career as one big lie—a lie that causes long-term harm, not only to the folks living in your district but the country as a whole. Nowhere is that lie more obvious than in Jim Jordan's approach to global warming and general environmental issues.  And here's why Jordan will live on in villainy.   In July 2008, after being in Congress for a year and a half, Jim Jordan was the first member of Congress to sign the "No Climate Tax Pledge."  Yes, the first to sign; his initial salvo in an unrelenting fight he wages against our planet. The pledge or vow is the product of Americans for Prosperity, the conservative political advocacy group, funded by David and Charles Koch.  This is the outfit that went to war with the Obama Administration initiatives to combat global warming. The promise itself is significant for a couple of reasons: 1) it opposes any legislation relating to climate change that includes a net increase in government revenue; 2) it drives the final nail in the coffin of environmental bipartisanship, which had been the norm for decades. Let's take a closer look at this.   First, 71% of Americans now think that most scientists believe global warming is occurring; 68% of Americans believe global warming is caused by human activities. (March 14, 2017, Gallup poll).  Record percentages of Americans are now concerned about global warming.  I would predict the same percentages of belief would apply to Jordan's Ohio 4th Congressional District, plus or minus a few points. But Jordan wanted to be the first congressman in the USA to sell out the voters of a congressional district—never mind it had to be his own.  He couldn't wait to curry favor with the Koch boys and sign on the dotted line. What he's really saying is: "Regardless how bad it gets, how severe the droughts, how out of control the forest fires, how strong the tornadoes and hurricanes, how hot the summers, how cold the winters, how deep the floods, how devastating the blizzards, how much the ice caps melt, how high the oceans rise, I will not vote to tax, tariff, or otherwise increase revenues to cap the use of fossil fuels, unless that money is cut (or borrowed) from somewhere else in the budget."  And in Jordan's case, that would be Social Security, Medicare, education, health care and the like: Programs that benefit folks in his district. So from that July day in 2008, Jordan waged his own war on the environment: Voting to bar greenhouse gasses from Clean Air Act rules; voting against enforcing limits on carbon dioxide global warming pollution, against tax incentives for renewable electricity and energy conservation, against curtailing subsidies for oil and gas company exploration, but voting in favor of opening the Outer Continental Shelf to oil drilling. The League of Conservation Voters, National Environmental Scorecard, awarded Jordan a perfect 0% score for his 2017 record, and a lifetime score of 4% for his work. The saddest part of this story, however, is the depth we've descended into the abyss of partisanship on environmental issues.  These were matters that we have historically agreed on, if for no other reason than the sake of our children and grandchildren's future. For example, in 1969, Congress passed the landmark National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA).  This revolutionary piece of legislation unanimously passed the Senate; the vote in the House was 372 Years, with only 15 Nays.  Nixon signed it into law on New Year's Day, 1970. Now, thanks to guys like Jordan, NEPA would not even be brought to the floor for a vote, if it were introduced in today's Congress. In contrast, Janet Garrett, by philosophy an environmentalist, will push for and support an agenda that will guarantee clean water, clean air, and the reduction of greenhouse gasses.  Garrett knows the value of Environmental Protection; on those who knowingly violate our statutes, Janet will push for criminal enforcement.  Garrett will defend our National Park system and public lands, as she understands the need to preserve the earth for her children and grandchildren.  To Janet, this is a moral issue. Please support Janet Garrett in her efforts to replace Jordan in Congress.	True
441	palmerreport	left_bias	2018-02-25	It's pure, unadulterated selfishness.	The equation that is most dangerous, according to Jeffrey Kluger of Time, is n=1, otherwise stated as, "If it matters to me, it counts.	This is why deniers exist.	And there you have it.	Trump and Pruitt and others of their ilk might have greed and corruption as motives.		Donald Trump's new climate change debacle CNN just posted an article about rising sea levels. It's good to know that the editors are much smarter than President Donald Trump or his equally climate denying Environmental Protection Agency Commissioner, Scott Pruitt. The EPA matters because climate change is right up there with the national debt as a threat to national security. The DoD, in a recent report, says that rising sea levels will put more than a thousand military installations in serious jeopardy. But CNN is wrong in their projections. I've just returned from Antarctica on a research trip to validate the most likely temperature and sea level rise projections in the ClyFy novel I'm writing. 3°F of average temperature increase and three feet of sea level rise by 2050. The scientists all agreed these were plausible.I commented, "Two feet by 2100? Get real. 3 feet by 2050. Talk to me after Cat 6 hurricanes blanket the Caribbean every year. Last year was just a preview. Pay attention CNN." Sea level rise is accelerating. One witty Facebook user quipped, "I will be dead by that time so who cares?" I thought he was being sarcastic, but he turned out to be dead serious. And there you have it. This is why deniers exist. They don't want to spend their own money to solve a problem that might affect their grandkids and not themselves. It's pure, unadulterated selfishness. They can't accept the truth of that, so they deny the science of climate change. The equation that is most dangerous, according to Jeffrey Kluger of Time, is n=1, otherwise stated as, "If it matters to me, it counts. If not, I don't give a damn." Trump and Pruitt and others of their ilk might have greed and corruption as motives. But n=1 applies to them, too.	False
271	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-04	"They make surrounding communities less healthy and less safe.	We would work it out.	o.	They must be immediately banned."	It's a danger to the air we breathe.		Bernie Sanders Calls on Democrat Candidates to Support 'Full Fracking Ban' "Any proposal to avert the climate crisis must include a full fracking ban on public and private lands," Sanders said Wednesday, ahead of CNN's seven-hour climate change town hall. He continued, calling the concept of safe fracking "pure fiction" and decrying the release of "methane from natural gas" as a major contributing factor to climate change." racking is a danger to our water supply. It's a danger to the air we breathe. It causes earthquakes. It's highly explosive. Safe fracking is, like clean coal, pure fiction," Sanders continued." ut, most importantly, methane from natural gas contributes to climate change and is setting us on a path to disaster," he added. "When we are in the White House, we will end the era of fossil fuels, and that includes fracking":Sanders' call to ban fracking is not necessarily new. The Vermont senator promised in March that his administration would "ban fracking nationwide and rapidly move to renewable energy":Sanders also called for a full ban on fracking as part of his $16 trillion Green New Deal proposal released last month." racking and mountaintop removal coal mining are two particularly harmful methods used to extract fossil fuels," his plan states. "They make surrounding communities less healthy and less safe. They must be immediately banned." Former Vice President Joe Biden (D) has also expressed a desire to ban fracking, telling CNN's Dana Bash that his administration would work to eliminate it." ust to clarify, would there be any place for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking, in a Biden administration," Bash asked during July's Democrat debate in Detroit." o. We would work it out. We would make sure it's eliminated, and no more subsidies for either one of those, either — any fossil fuel," Biden said:Ten Democrat candidates – including Biden and Sanders – will participate in the CNN-hosted climate change town hall Wednesday evening.	False
109	slate	left_bias	2019-08-21	But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes," the BBC reports.	Wildfires are common in the dry season, but are also deliberately set by farmers illegally deforesting land for cattle ranching."	The Bolsonaro regime has reversed previous governments' efforts to enforce environmental regulations and protect what is the largest rainforest in the world.	The right-wing populist Bolsonaro, who has shown disdain for protecting the Amazon—home to 3 million species of plants and animals and 1 million or so people—came to power in January.	"Last month, the far-right president accused Inpe's director of lying about the scale of deforestation in the Amazon and trying to undermine the government.		Brazil Reports Record Number of Fires in Amazon, but Its Government Doesn't Care The Amazon is burning at an alarming rate in Brazil with 72,843 fires detected so far this year by the country's space research center INPE. That amounts to an 83 percent increase over the same period in 2018 and the highest number since the agency started recording fires in 2013, meaning it is likely the highest number of fires to date. The sudden spike has prompted renewed concern that the destruction of the Amazon basin is the result of right-wing President Jair Bolsonaro's environmental policies that don't give much thought to the environment at all. The smoke from the fires has been so bad that when carried by the wind it caused an hourlong blackout in nearby São Paulo. The right-wing populist Bolsonaro, who has shown disdain for protecting the Amazon—home to 3 million species of plants and animals and 1 million or so people—came to power in January. The Bolsonaro regime has reversed previous governments' efforts to enforce environmental regulations and protect what is the largest rainforest in the world. "Over the past decade, previous governments had managed to reduce deforestation with action by federal agencies and a system of fines. But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes," the BBC reports. "Last month, the far-right president accused Inpe's director of lying about the scale of deforestation in the Amazon and trying to undermine the government. It came after Inpe published data showing an 88 percent increase in deforestation there in June compared to the same month a year ago." Conversely, NASA has reported overall fire activity in the Amazon basin has been slightly below average." ince Thursday, INPE said satellite images spotted 9,507 new forest fires in the country, mostly in the Amazon basin, home to the world's largest tropical forest seen as vital to countering global warming," Reuters reports. "Wildfires have increased in Mato Grosso and Para, two states where Brazil's agricultural frontier has pushed into the Amazon basin and spurred deforestation. Wildfires are common in the dry season, but are also deliberately set by farmers illegally deforesting land for cattle ranching." Bolsonaro dismissed alarm over the latest data, saying it was simply the season that farmers use open fires to clear farmland. "I used to be called Captain Chainsaw. Now I am Nero, setting the Amazon aflame," he said.	False
25	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-12-15	China and India, the world's No.	If there was one time in the history when I would say governments fucked up, I would say today in Madrid, governments fucked up," said Mohamed Adow, Director of Power Shift Africa."	People across the world must rise to save the planet."	1 and No.	"I have never seen such a disconnect between what the science requires and the people of the world demand, versus what the climate negotiations are delivering," Alden Meyer, strategy and policy director at the Union of Concerned Scientists, told AFP.		UN climate talks unraveling, face failure... Madrid (AFP) - A UN climate summit in Madrid was on life support Saturday after marathon negotiations between countries left them more divided than ever over on how to fight global warming and pay for its ravages. Diplomats from rich nations, emerging giants and the world's poorest countries -- each for their own reasons -- found fault with a draft agreement put forward by host Chile in a botched attempt to strike common ground. Faced with fire-alarm warnings from science, deadly extreme weather made worse by climate change, and weekly strikes by millions of young people, negotiations in Madrid were under pressure to send a clear signal that governments were willing to double down in tackling the crisis. But the 12-day talks, more than 24 hours after their scheduled end, had retreated even further from this goal on Saturday. Simon Stiell, Grenada envoy, told AFP that the lack of ambition in the initial agreement text was "crazy"." It isn't reflective of the kids who are demonstrating on the streets the world over, communities being washed away by rising sea levels," he said late Saturday." We wanted provisions that were in the Paris agreement to remain and what we see at every COP it just seems to be another opportunity to erode those." Veteran observers of UN climate talks were stunned by the state of play nearly 24 hours after the negotiations had been due to close."I have never seen such a disconnect between what the science requires and the people of the world demand, versus what the climate negotiations are delivering," Alden Meyer, strategy and policy director at the Union of Concerned Scientists, told AFP. Alexandria Villasenor, a 14-year-old climate activist, said she was "disappointed" in the lack of action at COP 25." The difference between the youth on the streets and the negotiations is that the youth on the streets are acting with urgency," she told AFP." COP 25 has failed us and it's another year of failure." Under the Paris accord, countries agreed in 2015 to work to limit global temperature rises to "well below" two degrees Celsius through a series of voluntary action pledges that step up over time. The push for a strengthening of voluntary carbon cutting plans is led by small-island and least-developed states, along with the European Union. Ministers from this "high ambition coalition" have called out countries they see as blocking a consensus call for all countries to step up, notably the United States, Australia and Saudi Arabia. China and India, the world's No. 1 and No. 4 carbon emitters, have made it clear they see no need to improve on their current emissions reduction plans, which run to 2030. These emerging giants have chosen instead to emphasise the historical responsibility of rich nations to lead the way and provide financing to poor countries. Observers told AFP Saturday evening that a possible landing ground had emerged in which China agreed to yield a little over language surrounding ambition in return for a clear reiteration of historic polluters' obligation to do more. The COP 25 summit was also meant to finalise a chapter on carbon markets in the Paris rulebook, which goes into effect next year. Some nations, notably Brazil and Australia, want to count carbon credits accumulated under a previous climate deal as part of their commitments under the Paris goals, further stymying progress. The United States, which is leaving the landmark Paris climate deal next year, was accused of acting as a spoiler on a number of issues vital to climate-vulnerable nations. This included so-called "loss and damage" funding to help disaster-hit countries repair and rebuild." The US has not come here in good faith," said Harjeet Singh, climate lead with charity ActionAid." They continue to block the world's efforts to help people whose lives have been turned upside down by climate change." Even if nations in Madrid snatch victory from the jaws of defeat and agree to implement their pledges, Earth is on course to warm more than 3C by 2100." If there was one time in the history when I would say governments fucked up, I would say today in Madrid, governments fucked up," said Mohamed Adow, Director of Power Shift Africa." People across the world must rise to save the planet."	False
333	drudgereport	right_bias	2018-12-09	Thus, one well-worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live, where to live, and how to work—all of the good of the planet, of course—is the alarmist study, making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that they're supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president: Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	And it's these three things: wealth, growth and technology, which allows humans to thrive on planet Earth, not $240 per gallon fuel taxes imposed by an elite that cares not for the masses.	So how do climate activists get their way?	This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN, but it is far from sound science or even good economics.		America Next? The City of Lights, Paris, has been illuminated in recent days by cars set alight by thousands of protesting "Yellow Vests"—largely middle class people who earn their living by driving or who commute to get to work. The cause of their ire is a scheduled 25 cents-per-gallon increase in gas taxes, and about 10 cents on diesel, to fight climate change. French President Macron, deeply unpopular, just reversed course on the new green tax—Parisians are already paying about $7.06 per gallon for gasoline, almost half of that in taxes. If Paris streets burned over a proposed 25 cents per gallon climate change tax, imagine the global conflagration over a $49 per gallon tax. That's what a United Nations special climate report calls for in 12 years, with a carbon tax of $5,500 per ton—equal to $49 per gallon of gasoline or diesel. That's about 100 times today's average state and federal motor fuels tax. By 2100, the U.N. estimates that a carbon tax of $27,000 per ton is needed—$240 per gallon—to limit global warming to no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius. Of course, that isn't going to happen. The economic wreckage of such a punitive tax would plunge the global economy into a permanent depression—and that's assuming politicians could enact such huge tax increases over the will of their voters. Keep in mind that the unrest in France was triggered by a looming 25-cent hike, which is a little less than 10% more in taxes than French drivers already pay. To meet the $49 per gallon tax hike recommended by the U.N., fuel taxes in France would have to go up 17-fold. The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed. They don't earn enough to be part of the elite unconcerned with fuel taxes, but they work hard enough that they don't qualify for the generous welfare benefits handed out to the nation's poor and to newly arrived immigrants from Africa and the Middle East. Here in America, Republicans in Congress passed a resolution against carbon taxes over the summer while Democrats embraced the concept in their party platform. Some incoming members of the new Democratic majority in the House are calling to create a select committee to map out a "Green New Deal" that would move the U.S. toward using 100% renewable energy for the electric grid while guaranteeing jobs for everyone. In the meantime, opinion polls indicate that 54% of Americans do not believe global warming will cause major problems within their lifetimes. So how do climate activists get their way? Some openly talk of imposing authoritarian governance to override democratic institutions. Former NASA climate researcher James Hansen suggested in 2007 that "the democratic process does not work." Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of "deniers." Those who see climate change as a dire and urgent threat have some work to do to convince voters in the Western democracies to give up their way of life in exchange for unspecified benefits of a slightly less warm world—and that's assuming China, India and over a billion people in Africa can be convinced not to try to pull themselves out of poverty—something that may only be done with greater use of fossil fuels. Thus, one well-worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live, where to live, and how to work—all of the good of the planet, of course—is the alarmist study, making copious use of lies of omission and commission. An example of the former can be seen in the new National Climate Assessment. The report's first chapter lists recent natural disasters, citing this summer's deadly Carr Fire in California as an example. But while the report seeks to link wildfire to climate change, it glosses over the real reason fires have grown in intensity and size: the 30 years of increased environmental restrictions on logging, brush clearance and preventive burns that caused a massive and dangerous fuel buildup—a problem that was predicted years ago and has nothing to do with global warming. The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that they're supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president: Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg. Here we're told that the U.S. economy will take a 10% hit by 2100 unless we reduce our carbon emissions. Two problems, though: the authors assume the worst-case and least likely scenario, with average temperatures more than 14 degrees Fahrenheit hotter by 2100; and they derive two-thirds of their economic losses estimate by claiming a large amount of premature deaths due to the hotter temperatures. The latter claim is highly problematic as death rates in regions far hotter than in the U.S. aren't meaningfully different, when accounting for the standard of living. Why? People adapt rather easily. This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN, but it is far from sound science or even good economics. The bottom line is this: economic freedom—the kind you get with a large middle class—leads to prosperity, economic growth, and technological innovation. And it's these three things: wealth, growth and technology, which allows humans to thrive on planet Earth, not $240 per gallon fuel taxes imposed by an elite that cares not for the masses.	False
