A strong tsunami triggered by a magnitude 7.5 earthquake has hit a coastal Indonesian city officials say. Waves of up to 2m 6.6ft high swept through Palu on Sulawesi island not long after authorities had lifted a tsunami warning. Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque amongst the buildings damaged. Officials have reported five deaths but it is not clear if those were as a result of the tsunami. Last month a series of earthquakes struck the Indonesian island of Lombok killing hundreds of people the biggest on 5 August killed more than 460. The earthquake hit just off central Sulawesi at a depth of 10km 6.2 miles just before 1800 1100 GMT the US Geological Survey said. A tsunami warning was issued but lifted within the hour. The dramatic video footage of the tsunami hitting Palu shows the high waves sweeping away several buildings and then the large tilted mosque in the town about 80km from the quake's epicentre. Dwikorita Karnawati head of Indonesia's meteorology and geophysics agency BMKG said the tsunami had receded. The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed. There is a ship washed ashore she added. The 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia. Indonesia is prone to earthquakes because it lies on the Ring of Fire the line of frequent quakes and volcanic eruptions that circles virtually the entire Pacific rim. More than half of the world's active volcanoes above sea level are part of the ring.	False	True	False	True	True
US President Donald Trump has promised to erect a wall along the US Mexico border to curb illegal immigration however scientists have warned that it could have devastating implications for local wildlife. The US Mexico border spans more than 2000 miles 3200 km and crosses some of the most biologically rich areas on the continent. Analysis of the animals that reside in the region reveals the controversial wall could threaten the movement of 1500 animal and plant species that reside in the area. The report which was co authored by 18 scientists from around the world found that62 of the species threatened nu the wall were already listed as 'critically endangered' 'endangered' or 'vulnerable' and up to 17 per cent risk extirpation from the US. More than 2500 experts from around the world have rallied around the new study championing its importance. One of its authors a leading professor from Stanford condemned the US border wall project branding it a 'crime against biodiversity'. The new paper co authored by Stanford biologist Rodolfo Dirzowarns some species face extinction if their movement is restricted by the border wall planned by President Trump. According to the study the border wall will harm wildlife populations by fragmenting degrading and eliminating existing habitat as well as by blocking migration. ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The bordersis an ecological theatre where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays. 'A multitude of factors climatic conditions topography geological history soil types converge to create an amazing mosaic of ecosystems.' The research looked at 346 different species native to the region around the US Mexico border and predicted how the wall's installation would affect each of them. The wall would bisect the habitats of a combined1506 native terrestrial and freshwater species 1077 animal and 429 plant the researchers said. The study concluded that animals including the Mexican Gray Wolf Sonoran pronghorn antelope jaguar and bighorn sheep would all be directly impacted. Writing in the study entitled 'Nature Divided Scientists United USMexico Border Wall Threatens Biodiversity and Binational Conservation' the authors claim 'A continuous border wall could disconnect more than 34 per cent of US non flying native terrestrialand freshwater animal species from the 50 per cent or more of their range that lies south of the border. 'If cut off by a border wall 17 per cent of the 346 species we analysedincluding jaguar Panthera onca and ocelot Leopardus pardalis would have residual U.S. populationscovering 20000 km2 or less. 'This would elevate their risk of extirpation within the US according to IUCN Red List criteria.' The paperpublished in the journal BioScience predicts that some species will face extinction if their movements are restricted by the wall Donald Trump pledged to build during the presidential campaign in 2016. ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The borderis an ecological theater where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays. 'A multitude of factors climatic conditions topography geological history soil types converge to create an amazing mosaic of ecosystems.' His colleague Emeritus professor of Biology Paul Ehrlich also of Stanford said that a smaller development such as a shopping centre or a new road already has a direct impact on biodiversity. Building something as large as a 2000 mile 3200 km long fence would be tantamount to a 'crime against biodiversity'. Professor Dirzo added 'Cut off like this the bighorn sheep and other animals and plants will become zombie species populations that are demographically and genetically doomed.' To mitigate the effects of the proposed wall the authors make several urgent recommendations to the US Congress and Department of Homeland Security. Some of the recommendations include Following existing environmental laws taking action to mitigate ecological harm and forgoing physical barriers in particularly sensitive areas. The research paper also calls for the government to encourage scientific research in the borderlands to inform and assist environmental evaluation and mitigation efforts. The authors conclude that 'national security can and must be pursued with an approach that preserves our natural heritage.'	False	False	False	True	True
The Trump administration has held the biggest lease sale of oil and gas in US history. Environmentalists fear the auction will massively expand fossil fuel production and could lead to the next Deepwater disaster. President Donald Trump on Wednesday sold more than 77 million acres of federal waters in the Gulf of Mexico for offshore oil drilling an area twice the size of Florida. The lease sale forms part of the Trump administrations plans to increase domestic energy production by opening up new areas for oil drilling. Oil drilling in the Gulf of Mexico became increasingly controversial after the BP Deepwater Horizon disaster in 2010 which killed 11 workers and released millions of barrels of crude oil into the Gulf of Mexico. The catastrophe caused 17.2 billion worth of damage to natural resources according to a study in 2017 commissioned by the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Critics of the sale fear the expansion in offshore drilling could devastate marine life and lead to roll backs in environmental protections. Trump is selling off our oceans and selling out coastal communities and marine life to the oil industry said Kristen Monsell oceans program legal director at the Center for Biological Diversity. More drilling and less regulation will make the next Deepwater Horizon disaster only a matter of time. Whales dolphins and Gulf seafood are already marinating in oil spills and industry wastewater she added. The Interior Department said the sell off is necessary if America is to maintain energy independence. American energy production can be competitive said Vincent DeVito an energy policy advisor at the Interior Department. People need jobs the Gulf Coast states need revenue and Americans do not want to be dependent on foreign oil. he said. The Gulf of Mexico provides the US with around 1.5 million barrels of oil per day or roughly 17 percent of its national production total according to the Energy Information Administration. US crude oil output has grown by more than 20 percent since mid 2016. The oil industry welcomed the lease sale with Randall Luthi of the trade group National Oceanic Industry Association noting that the sale on Wednesday may draw more interest from industry than we have seen in recent years. Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers. The Project on Government Oversight warned in February that the uncompetitive lease system used by the government to auction sites allows energy companies to secure offshore leases for a pittance. It cautioned that the sale in the Gulf of Mexico means more publicly owned resources could be turned over to industry at bargain basement prices. The Center for American Progress a left leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement saying in a statement that offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources. Like this story? Share it with a friend!	True	False	False	False	True
Democratic 2020 hopeful Sen. Bernie Sanders on Thursday released his plan for a Green New Deal promising that the multitrillion dollarplan to radically overhaul the economy and combat climate change will pay for itself over the next 15 years. As president Bernie Sanders will launch the decade of the Green New Deal a ten year nationwide mobilization centered around justice and equity during which climate change will be factored into virtually every area of policy from immigration to trade to foreign policy and beyond his campaign said in a press release. SANDERS CALLS FOR 'REGISTRY OF DISREPUTABLE FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS' CUTTING PRISON POPULATION IN HALF The Vermont senator has long been an advocate for the Green New Deal but only this year has it become a central policy for many of those seeking the Democratic nomination for president. This year it was given a big push in Congress when Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. and Sen. Ed Markey D Mass. introduced a formal resolution on it which stalled in the Senate but drewsupport from a number of 2020 hopefuls. All versions of such plans have gone beyond direct energy related policies instead seeking to overhaul the economy and society at large. Sanders plan is no different promising that he will generate the political will necessary for a wholesale transformation of our society and proposing16.3 trillion in public investments. In addition to promises that include reaching 100 percent renewable energy by 2030 and decarbonization by 2050 and ending unemployment by creating 20 million good paying jobs tied to clean energy Sanders claims he will save families money with a host of policies including launching universal high speed Internet weatherizing homes building new public transportation and rebuilding Americas infrastructure. Among those promises are a 681 billion program for families and small businesses to trade in old vehicles for newer more energy efficient motors a souped up version of the Obama administration era Cash for Clunkers program. He also promises justice for frontline communities via a 40 billion Climate Justice Resiliency Fund as well as an extra 200 billion to the Green Climate Fund. The plan also promises support for the climate justice movement to take on the fossil fuel industry and other polluters and lead the globe in solving the climate crisis. In a nod to the social justice part of the plan he says that the deal is an opportunity to uproot historical injustices and inequities to advance social racial and economic justice including redressing the exclusion of black brown Native Americanand other vulnerable communities from the programs that made up the original New Deal. But the White House hopeful also promises that the plan will pay for itself over 16 years sayingexperts have scored the plan and its economic effects. According to the campaign revenue will be generated via a host of measures including slapping the fossil fuel industry with fees litigation and taxes and generating revenue from the sale of energy. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Further sources of revenue or savings includetax revenue from the proposed 20 million jobs higher taxes on the wealthy lower military spending and a reduced need for welfare spending due to the creation of millions of good paying unionized jobs. Any such plan is unlikely to get any Republican support and would almost certainly rely entirely on Democrats having strong majorities in both the House and Senate should Sanders win the nomination and the presidency.	True	False	False	True	True
WASHINGTON The Trump administration says it will bypass 37 environmental and other laws to expedite construction of a 15 mile long section of President Donald Trumpsplanned wall along the U.S. Mexico border seemingly removing any doubt about whether the the wall will harm the environment. The waiver announced Tuesday by the Department of Homeland Security applies to the construction of several wall prototypes access roads and 14 miles of replacement fencing near San Diego a Homeland Security official told HuffPost. DHS has been granted authority to exempt itself from all legal requirements it determines necessary to construct barriers and roads under the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996. Between 2005 and 2008 the department invoked that authority five times according to the agency. DHS noted in its Tuesday release that in fiscal year 2016 the U.S. Border Patrol apprehended more than 31000 illegal aliens and confiscated more than 9000 pounds of marijuana and more than 1300 pounds of cocaine in itsSan Diego Sector. It described the sector which includes some 60 miles of the U.S. Mexico border as an area of high illegal entry for which there is an immediate need to improve current infrastructure and construct additional border barriers and roads. Among the lengthy list of laws it will waive are the National Environmental Policy Act a 1969 law requiring federal agencies to complete environmental assessments of their projects the Endangered Species Act the Migratory Bird Conservation Act and the Clean Air Act.It is likely a sign of how the administration which has worked swiftly to roll back a slew of environmental regulations plans to fulfill Trumpspledgefor a great great wall on the nearly 2000 mile southern border. Despite sidestepping these laws DHS is committed to responsible environmental stewardship and will continue to assess potential impacts coordinate with relevant stakeholders and to the extent possible offset or mitigate potential impacts department spokesman Carlos Diaz said in an email to HuffPost. Trump wants to scare people into letting him ignore the law and endanger wildlife and people Brian Segee an attorney with the Center for Biological Diversity said in a statement. Trumps wall is a divisive symbol of fear and hatred and it does real harm to the landscape and communities. A study by the center in May found that 93 threatened endangered and candidate speciescould be negatively affected by the proposed border wallincluding jaguars ocelots Mexican spotted owls Mexican gray wolves and Quino checkerspot butterflies. Driven by an anti immigrant agenda the Trump administration is callously putting construction of an environmentally and culturally destructive border wall above water resources for communities on both sides of the border federally protected lands clean air and the lives of hundreds of endangered species all while turning a blind eye to the vital relationships of cross border communities and our longstanding values as a nation she said in a statement. So far very little funding has been secured for the walls estimatedcost of upwards of 70 billion a tab Trump insists Mexico will eventually pay for. DHS identified 20 million to help fund several prototypes. And last month the House of Representatives passed a spending bill that earmarks 1.6 billion to begin construction of the controversial project enough to pay for roughly 74 miles of wall.	False	False	False	True	False
After watching Schwarzeneggers video in fact it becomes immediately evident that the actor and former politician has never read the Paris climate accordand has no idea what it says. President Trump says hes pulling out of the Paris climate agreement. My message to you Mr. President is that as a public servant and especially as a president your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people Schwarzenegger begins. He then proceeds to chronicle the negative effects of pollution in the United States. Two hundred thousand people die every year in the U.S. from air pollution and half of our rivers and streams are too polluted for our health he says. We cant sit back and just do nothing while people are getting sick and dying especially when you know theres another way. Schwarzenegger goes on to suggest that without the Paris accord we will face a dirty energy future with asthma emphysema and cancer. The trouble is President Trump would heartily agree with Schwarzeneggers point while perhaps debating the exact statistics. According to President Trump clean air and water are exactly the issues that the EPA should be dealing with. But this has nothing to do with the Paris climate accord. Nowhere does the 25 page agreement deal with battling air pollution or cleaning up rivers and streams. It deals specifically with reducing greenhouse gas emissions particularly carbon dioxide CO2 with the stated objective of combatting global warming. Carbon dioxide is not a toxic gas. No one is dying from CO2 air pollution or from rivers and streams polluted with carbon dioxide. Some climate scientists in fact have argued that more carbon dioxide not less would be beneficial to the environment and to humanity. Growers regularly pump it into their greenhouses to achieve healthier heartier plants. Everything Schwarzenegger mentions in his short videofrom air pollution to clean water to asthma emphysema and canceris completely unrelated to the Presidents decision to withdraw from the Paris accord. So maybe the next time he decides to criticize the decision to get the U.S. out of the Paris accord he should read the document first. Meanwhile he should probably think about terminating that video.	True	False	False	False	False
President Donald Trump announced his decision to pull the United States out of the Paris climate accord at 3 pm Eastern in the White House Rose Garden. A live stream of the announcement is embedded above. Multiple reports indicate that Trump is likely to announce a withdrawal from the agreement though many of these reports have expressed at least some uncertainty including about precisely what language Trump would use. Jonathan Swan of Axios reported that per two sources with direct knowledge of the decision Trump has decided to pull out of the agreement. The Daily Beasts Lachlan Markay reports that the White House is telling congressional staff that Trump will pull out. The Associated Presss Jill Colvin and Julie Pace though report that Trumps decision may not be entirely clear cut and that aides continued to deliberate on caveats in the language. The actual Paris deal agreed to by 195 countries in December 2015 is aspirational rather than binding calling on countries to set goals for emissions reduction. Still the withdrawal of the US would send an unmistakable signal to the rest of the world that the country with the second highest carbon emissions is no longer interested in even pretending to care about reducing them. For years now its been clear that blocking environmental regulations and obstructing action on climate change are top Republican Party priorities. The GOPs leading politicians and media outlets have tended to praise fossil fuel companies and ignore or cast doubt on climate science. The major Republican presidential candidates harshly criticized the Paris deal in particular and Trump promised to withdraw from it during the campaign. Still withdrawing from such a recent agreement that the vast majority of countries across the world have signed on to has serious consequences for Americas role as a global leader. So the question of whether the US should actually pull out of the agreement has reportedly been the subject of intense debate within the Trump administration. According to Politicos Andrew Restuccia and Josh Dawsey White House chief strategist Steve Bannon and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt have been the leading voices urging Trump to withdraw while Ivanka Trump and the so called New York or globalist White House camp have been advocating for staying in. Silicon Valley business leaders like Apple CEO Tim Cook and Tesla CEO Elon Musk have also been arguing that the US should stick to the agreement.	True	False	False	True	False
Concentrations of CO2 in the Earth's atmosphere surged to a record high in 2016 according to the World Meteorological Organization WMO. Last year's increase was 50 higher than the average of the past 10 years. Researchers say a combination of human activities and the El Nio weather phenomenon drove CO2 to a level not seen in 800000 years. This year's greenhouse gas bulletin produced by the WMO is based on measurements taken in 51 countries. Research stations dotted around the globe measure concentrations of warming gases including carbon dioxide methane and nitrous oxide. The figures published by the WMO are what's left in the atmosphere after significant amounts are absorbed by the Earth's sinks which include the oceans and the biosphere. 2016 saw average concentrations of CO2 hit 403.3 parts per million up from 400ppm in 2015. It is the largest increase we have ever seen in the 30 years we have had this network Dr Oksana Tarasova chief of WMO's global atmosphere watch programme told BBC News. The largest increase was in the previous El Nio in 1997 1998 and it was 2.7ppm and now it is 3.3ppm it is also 50 higher than the average of the last ten years. El Nio impacts the amount of carbon in the atmosphere by causing droughts that limit the uptake of CO2 by plants and trees. Emissions from human sources have slowed down in the last couple of years according to research but according to Dr Tarasova it is the cumulative total in the atmosphere that really matters as CO2 stays aloft and active for centuries. Over the past 70 years says the report the increase in CO2 in the atmosphere is nearly 100 times larger than it was at the end of the last ice age. Rapidly increasing atmospheric levels of CO2 and other gases have the potential according to the study to initiate unpredictable changes in the climate system... leading to severe ecological and economic disruptions. The study notes that since 1990 there has been a 40 increase in total radiative forcing that's the warming effect on our climate of all greenhouse gases. Geological wise it is like an injection of a huge amount of heat said Dr Tarasova. The changes will not take ten thousand years like they used to take before they will happen fast we don't have the knowledge of the system in this state that is a bit worrisome! According to experts the last time the Earth experienced a comparable concentration of CO2 was three to five million years ago in the mid Pliocene era. The climate then was 2 3C warmer and sea levels were 10 20m higher due to the melting of Greenland and the West Antarctic ice sheets. Other experts in the field of atmospheric research agreed that the WMO findings were a cause for concern. The 3ppm CO2 growth rate in 2015 and 2016 is extreme double the growth rate in the 1990 2000 decade Prof Euan Nisbet from Royal Holloway University of London told BBC News. It is urgent that we follow the Paris agreement and switch rapidly away from fossil fuels there are signs this is beginning to happen but so far the air is not yet recording the change. Another concern in the report is the continuing mysterious rise of methane levels in the atmosphere which were also larger than the average over the past ten years. Prof Nisbet says there is a fear of a vicious cycle where methane drives up temperatures which in turn releases more methane from natural sources. The rapid increase in methane since 2007 especially in 2014 2015 and 2016 is different. This was not expected in the Paris agreement. Methane growth is strongest in the tropics and sub tropics. The carbon isotopes in the methane show that growth is not being driven by fossil fuels. We do not understand why methane is rising. It may be a climate change feedback. It is very worrying. The implications of these new atmospheric measurements for the targets agreed under the Paris climate pact are quite negative say observers. The numbers don't lie. We are still emitting far too much and this needs to be reversed said Erik Solheim head of UN Environment. We have many of the solutions already to address this challenge. What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency. The report has been issued just a week ahead of the next instalment of UN climate talks in Bonn. Despite the declaration by President Trump that he intends to take the US out of the deal negotiators meeting in Germany will be aiming to advance and clarify the rulebook of the Paris agreement. Follow Matt on Twitter and on Facebook	True	False	False	True	True
California Gov. Jerry Brown ramped up his criticism of President Trump in an interview that aired Monday calling the president a saboteur in the fight to combat climate change and saying that somethings got to happen to this guy. Speaking to MSNBCs Andrea Mitchell at an environmentalsummitin San Francisco last week Brown tore into Trump for the presidents controversial tweets about the death toll in Puerto Rico from last years Hurricane Maria and urged voters to vote for Democrats in Novembers midterm elections in an effort to thwart Trumps agenda. We never had a president who was engaged in this kind of behavior Brown said. I mean hes not telling the truth he keeps changing his mind hes sabotaging the world order in many respects. Brown added Its unprecedented its dangerous and hopefully this election is going to send a strong message to the country the Democrats will winsomethings got to happen to this guy because if we dont get rid of him hes going to undermine America and even the world. Under Brown California has become one of the main opponents to the Trump administrations policies on everything from land use to immigration. But there is perhaps no area where California has been more combative against the White House agenda than the environment. California has positioned itself as the center of the Trump resistance Jessica Levinson a clinical law professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles told Fox News. Its bloody combat. Earlier this month Brown signed two pieces of legislation effectively banning the construction of any new offshore oil and gas pipelines in the states waters. The new laws are meant to thwart a Trump plan to open nearly 1.7 billion acres of coastal waters to drilling. Shortly before the climate conference began last week the governor also put his signature on legislation phasing out electricity in the state produced by fossil fuels by 2045. Its really extraordinary that the president can deny science like that Brown told MSNBC of Trumps questioning the veracity of climate change. Its bad and how we counteract it is with a climate summit with normal people respecting the truth and communicating that with other normal people and combating the President of the United States in what are lies distortions and quite frankly bizarre behavior. Browns criticism of Trump appears to have fallen on deaf ears at the White House as the administration announced on Tuesday that it was rolling back an Obama era rule meant to curb climate changing pollution and easing restrictions on energy companies that allow huge volumes of natural gas to escape after drilling it from U.S. lands. The move rescinds much of a 2016 rule adopted under President Barack Obama that forced energy companies to capture methane a key contributor to climate change. The replacement rule from the Interior Department does not have the same mandates for companies to reduce gas pollution. It comes a week after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency proposed weakening a similar rule for emissions from public and private lands. We're for clean air and water but at the same time we're for reasonable regulations Deputy Interior Secretary David Bernhardt told reporters. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	True	True	False	True	False
Fans of Greta Thunberg have expressed relief after the 16 year old posted a string of smiling photographs on Instagram. The environmental activist's recent images taken while touring Canada's east coast in Montreal and Quebec are in sharp contrast to images of the 16 year old speaking in an emotionally charged appearance last month at the Climate Action Summit 2019 in New York. A photo of Greta scowling when she spotted Donald Trumpwent viral. The teenage campaigner who has 7.2million followers on Instagram looks decidedly happier since she crossed the border from the US something which her followers haven't failed to notice. Writing on Instagram Greta said 'So happy to say that the following weeks I'll travel slowly through the North American continent moving southwest and then eventually through South America towards Santiago. I will stop on the way and visit as many places as I can and of course protest every Friday no matter where I am.' Yesterday the teenager posted an image of herself at theMarine Mammal Interpretation Centre in Tadoussac Qubec after spending a morning watchingwhales. The tone of Greta's images have changed significantly since she addressed the United Nations Climate Summit on September 23rd where she came close to tears in a emotional speech to international delegates. She told them 'I shouldn't be up here. I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean. Yet you all come to us for hope. How dare you. You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words' During the same appearance Greta was seen at the UN headquarters with an enraged expression on her face as US President Donald Trump upstaged her entrance by walking in flanked by news reporters an image that promptly went viral. Among the comments posted by the environmentalist's followers many remarked how much happier the teenager had looked in recent days. On Instagram Jesuissuzette wrote 'Greta you look so much happier now that youre out of America. Enjoy your travels. And thank you for your intrepid Climate Crisis campaign.' Last week Thunberg addressed on social media the negativity she's received for speaking out on climate change saying 'Here we go again... As you may have noticed the haters are as active as ever going after me my looks my clothes my behaviour and my differences. They come up with every thinkable lie and conspiracy theory. It seems they will cross every possible line to avert the focus since they are so desperate not to talk about the climate and ecological crisis. Being different is not an illness and the current best available science is not opinions its facts.' Greta who is taking a sabbatical year from school arrived in North America in August taking a two week crossing on carbon neutral yacht Malizia II to address the United Nations. Greta Thunberg's fiery speech at the UN Climate Action Summit in New York This is all wrong. I shouldnt be standing here. I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean. Yet you all come to me for hope? How dare you! You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words. And yet Im one of the lucky ones. People are suffering. People are dying. Entire ecosystems are collapsing. We are in the beginning of a mass extinction. And all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth. How dare you! For more than 30 years the science has been crystal clear. How dare you continue to look away and come here saying that you are doing enough when the politics and solutions needed are still nowhere in sight. You say you hear us and that you understand the urgency. But no matter how sad and angry I am I dont want to believe that. Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act then you would be evil. And I refuse to believe that. The popular idea of cutting our emissions in half in 10 years only gives us a 50 chance of staying below 1.5C degrees and the risk of setting off irreversible chain reactions beyond human control. Maybe 50 is acceptable to you. But those numbers dont include tipping points most feedback loops additional warming hidden by toxic air pollution or the aspects of justice and equity. They also rely on my and my childrens generation sucking hundreds of billions of tonnes of your CO2 out of the air with technologies that barely exist. So a 50 risk is simply not acceptable to us we who have to live with the consequences. To have a 67 chance of staying below a 1.5C global temperature rise the best odds given by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change the world had 420 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide left to emit back on 1 January 2018. Today that figure is already down to less than 350 gigatonnes. How dare you pretend that this can be solved with business as usual and some technical solutions. With todays emissions levels that remaining CO2 budget will be entirely gone in less than eight and a half years. There will not be any solutions or plans presented in line with these figures today. Because these numbers are too uncomfortable. And you are still not mature enough to tell it like it is. You are failing us. But the young people are starting to understand your betrayal. The eyes of all future generations are upon you. And if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you. We will not let you get away with this. Right here right now is where we draw the line. The world is waking up. And change is coming whether you like it or not.	True	False	False	True	False
The top lawmakers on the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources were unified in their opposition to the Green New Deal and unreadiness to back taxes on carbon dioxide emissions. Theres no such thing as a new green deal West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin said during a Monday night panel at an international energy conference in Houston. Theres a resolution that has a dream but theres no bill theres no contents at all. Manchin a Democrat appeared alongside Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski a Republican at the event hosted by the consulting firm IHS Markit. Murkowski chairs the Senate energy committee and Manchin is the ranking Democrat. Manchin favors using fossil fuels like coal into the future but wants to fund technology to offset carbon dioxide emissions or sequester them underground. Murkowski said the Green New Deal was distracting from bipartisan efforts to fight global warming. We have to work within the systems we have and make sure we are not destroying our economy at the same time were moving to a lower carbon economy Murkowski said. As it stands now the Green New Deal is a non binding resolution with a series of broad goals for fighting global warming including net zero greenhouse gas emissions retrofitting every building expanding high speed rail universal health care and job guarantees. Many Democrats including 2020 presidential hopefuls back the Green New Deal which was introduced by Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and Democratic Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey in early February. RELATED John Kasich Praises The Green New Deal However Senate Democrats are trying to avoid having to vote on the Green New Deal resolution. Republicans on the other hand want to get Democrats on the record in support of a proposal they see as socialism. Manchin and Murkowski also said they are not ready to support a carbon tax despite support from some large oil and gas companies The Washington Examiners Joshua Siegel tweeted. Both lawmakers were responding to a question asked by Axios Amy Harder during the event. Most Republicans oppose a carbon tax though a handful have joined oil and gas majors and Democrats to push carbon tax proposals. The most recent high profile carbon tax effort was led by former Florida GOP Rep. Carlos Curbelo who introduced a bill to use emissions taxes to fund the federal Highway Trust Fund. However Curbelos policy went nowhere in the House and he lost his re election bid in 2018. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	True	False	True	True
That was the sober but urgent warning from congressional Democrats who on Tuesday penned a letter to EPA head Scott Pruitt urging him to preserve the Great Lakes area office amid rumors it could be shuttered as part of the Trump administrations efforts to slash the EPAs budget. EPA Region 5 is critical to protecting the air drinking water and health of residents in the six Great Lakes states the region serves and closing its headquarters in Chicago would make EPA less efficient and effective in its efforts to protect human health and the environment read the letter. And in a visit last week to East Chicago Indianawhich is grappling with a lead contamination crisis affecting both the water and soil Pruitt reportedly denied to a resident of the town that Region 5 was on the chopping block. About a month ago the union got three press calls in the same day asking if it had heard there was announcement Region 5 might be closed. The Office of Management and Budget also issued a memo in March asking the EPA to propose two regions for elimination. Then two weekends ago Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel issued a statement in support of keeping Region 5 open following reports in the Chicago Sun Timesand Politico that it was on the chopping block. There are about 1000 people in Region 5 and it has the most industrial regions of all of the EPA the employee who asked not to be named for fear of reprisal told HuffPost. My question is Why us? Were a big region in terms of geography. It takes four hours flying to get to the edge of the whole region. There are a lot of folks who simply wont do the move. And to be honest thats why its being suggested the employee said. The Trump administration suggested getting rid of 31 percent of the budget about 3000 employees which is about 20 percent of the EPA workforce. How are they going to get there? Its a lot easier to combine regions knowing that many of the staff in Region 5 would not want to move to Kansas City. Members of Congress who signed Tuesdays letter underscored the important role the region plays in ensuring a quick response to spills and contamination in the six states which are criss crossed with oil and gas pipelines spills often near the bulk of the nations freshwater supply and the Mississippi River waterways. Mikulka the EPA employees union president said shuttering Region 5 would be an effective way to hobble an agency whose mission is largely at odds with the Trump administrations deregulation orientedanti climate protection stance. If we have the most industry and we do the most enforcement and get the greatest results what better way to disembowel the EPA than going after Region 5?	True	True	False	True	False
California and 16 other states sued the Trump administration Tuesday over its plan to scrap Obama era auto emissions standards that would require vehicles to get significantly higher gas mileage by 2025. At issue is a move by Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt to roll back 2012 rules aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions. Under those rules vehicles would have to get 36 miles of real world driving per gallon about 10 miles over the existing standard. Pollutants coming out of vehicles out of the tailpipe does permanent lung damage to children living near well traveled roads and freeways. This is a fact. The only way we're going to overcome that is by reducing emissions Gov. Jerry Brown said in announcing the lawsuit along with other top California Democrats. The rules were set six years ago when California and the Obama administration agreed to a single nationwide fuel economy standard. Pruitt who has sought to block or delay an array of environmental regulations has argued that assumptions about gas prices and vehicle technology used by the Obama administration to set the standards were too optimistic. And he said the standards would hurt automakers and consumers who can't afford or don't want to buy more fuel efficient vehicles. Automakers have likewise argued that the Obama era rules would cost the industry billions of dollars and raise vehicle prices because of the cost of developing the necessary technology. EPA representatives did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment on the lawsuit. California officials say the standards are achievable and the EPA's effort to repeal them is not based on any new research. They argue the plan violates the federal Clean Air Act and didn't follow the agency's own regulations. California has a unique waiver that allows it to set its own tailpipe emissions standards for vehicles which it has used to combat smog and more recently global warming. Thirteen other states and the District of Columbia have adopted the California standards as their own. California has now sued the Trump administration more than 30 times on topics including immigration and health care policy. The world is not flat pollution is not free and the health and safety of our children is not for sale said Democratic state Attorney General Xavier Becerra standing alongside the governor. Brown who has made fighting climate change a core of his policy and political platform said the state's battles with Washington over climate are the most essential. If we follow the Pruitt Trump path we follow our way off the cliff to disaster he said. The lawsuit was filed in the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Joining California were Connecticut Delaware Illinois Iowa Maine Maryland Minnesota New Jersey New York Oregon Rhode Island Vermont Washington Massachusetts Pennsylvania Virginia and the District of Columbia. All have Democratic attorneys general.	True	True	True	True	False
World leaders reacted with dismay Thursday to President Trump's announcement that he was pulling out of the Paris climate accord while three prominent European heads of state rejected his suggestion that the deal could be renegotiated. French President Emmanuel Macron German Chancellor Angela Merkel and and Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentilonisaid in a joint statement that they regretted the United States' decision to withdraw from the accord but affirmed our strongest commitment to implement its measures and encouraged all our partners to speed up their action to combat climate change. While Trump said the United States would be willing to rejoin the accord if it could obtain more favorable terms the three European leaders said the agreement cannot be renegotiated since it is a vital instrument for our planet societies and economics. Macron repeated that belief in an English language speech from the Elysee presidential palace unprecedented from a French president in an address at home. He said I do respect this decision but I do think it is an actual mistake both for the U.S. and for our planet. Wherever we live whoever we are we all share the same responsibility make our planet great again Macron added. The European Union's top climate change official Miguel Arias Canente said in a statement that Trump's decision to leave the Paris accord made it a sad day for the global community adding that the bloc deeply regrets the unilateral decision. Canete also predicted that the EU would seek new alliances from the world's largest economies to the most vulnerable island states as well as U.S. businesses and individuals supportive of the accord. U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres called the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris climate agreement a major disappointment and said it was crucial that the United States remains a leader on environmental issues according to his spokesman. Norway's largest pension fund with 53 billion euro 59.5 billion in assets under its management said it would continue to invest in renewable energy despite the American president's decision saying in a statement that Donald Trump is jumping off a train that has already left the station. Chief executive Odd Arild Grefstad cited the growth of renewable energy in U.S. states such as Texas New York and California as signs that the world has started the transition from fossil to a renewable economy. In Mexico former President Vicente Fox criticized Trump's move saying on Twitter He's declaring war on the planet itself. Fox who has clashed with Trump since last year's presidential campaign said the U.S. leader's decision condemns this generation and those to come and would leave a dark legacy just to satisfy your greediness. Bill Ford chairman of the Ford Motor Co. also weighed in saying We believe climate change is real and remain deeply committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in our vehicles and our facilities. Before Trump announced his decision Thursday afternoon Chinese Premier Li Keqiang told reporters during a visit to Berlin that fighting global warming was a global consensus and an international responsibility. Without mentioning the U.S. specifically Li said that China in recent years has stayed true to its commitment and pointed out that his was one of the first countries to ratify the 2015 Paris Agreement. While traveling abroad last week Trump was repeatedly pressed to stay in the deal by European leaders and Pope Francis. Withdrawing would leave the United States as one of just three countries outside the agreement. The other two are Syria and Nicaragua. Russia joined the chorus speaking out for the climate accord. Speaking to reporters on Thursday before Trump's decision was announced a spokesman for President Vladimir Putin said Russia thinks highly of the accords and sees no alternative to it. Spokesman Dmitry Peskov added that its implementation will not be as effective without the key signatories. Scientists say Earth is likely to reach more dangerous levels of warming sooner if the U.S. retreats from its pledge because America contributes so much to rising temperatures. Calculations suggest withdrawal could release up to 3 billion additional tons of carbon dioxide a year enough to melt ice sheets faster raise seas higher and trigger more extreme weather. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False	True	True	True	False
If we dont address the issues of climate change and inequality Ms. Lagarde said Tuesday before a major economic conference in Riyadh we will be moving to a dark future. Speaking directly to the question of global warming Lagarde said that we will be toasted roasted and grilled if humanity fails to make critical decisions regarding carbon emissions. If the human race wants a future that looks like utopia and not dystopia it needs to address such concerns Lagarde said predicting that in 50 years time oil will be a secondary commodity since green energy will have moved into prominence. Speaking before a major petroleum producing nation Lagarde hastened to add that these necessary measures are well understood in Saudi Arabia. Ms. Lagarde is no stranger to exaggerated predictions having proposed in 2016 that a Brexit victory would lead to 500000 job losses while suggesting that Brexit voters are narrow minded and calling for a united Europe. Ms. Lagarde said she had always admired Britains openness to other nationalities and cultures and added it was hard to believe attitudes had changed in such a short space of time. In June President Donald Trump announced the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accord arguing that it was a deeply flawed document that put American workers at an economic disadvantage. This announcement drew fierce criticism from world leaders and activists with former UN secretary general Ban Ki moon accusing Trump of standing on the wrong side of history. Recent reports however suggest that Trumps move has drawn numerous countries in his wake with a number of other nations quietly withdrawing from the Paris energy goals. According to Lawrence Solomon of Energy Probe a Toronto based environmental organization Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is one of the only signers of the Paris agreement who is actually abiding by the exacting demands of the accord. Most signatories Solomon notes in an essay in last Fridays Financial Post are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios. Moreover a devastating new study from the prestigious UK based Lancet journal has revealed that pollution related diseasesrather than climate changewere responsible for an estimated 9 million premature deaths in 2015 or some 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence combined. Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today the study found but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwide three times more deaths than from AIDS tuberculosis and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence. So while there has not yet been a single documented case of a person being killed by carbon dioxide related global warming real pollution of air water and land is killing an average of 25000 people every day across the globe. As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of carbon footprints and preaching renewable energy they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world. Whereas the Paris Climate Accord prates about greenhouse gas emissions it never once mentions the word pollution in the entire 27 pagedocument. Yet not only is pollution control not getting better in many parts of the world pollution is getting worse the Lancet study found.	True	True	False	True	False
The twin disasters of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma showcased once again the media's reflex to use such tragedies to push for liberal climate change policies. In their pursuit of this agenda the broadcast networks' have heavily criticized the Trump administration's policies on the environment. From January 20 through August 31 MRC analysts tallied 75 stories discussing the President and climate change totaling 73 minutes 43 seconds of network airtime. The commentary in these stories was as one sided as the rest of Trump's coverage has been with 88 percent of evaluative statements criticizing the President vs. a mere 12 percent that praised him. Methodology Our measure of spin was designed to isolate the networks own slant not the back and forth of partisan politics. Thus our analysts ignored soundbites which merely showcased the traditional party line Republicans supporting Trump Democrats criticizing him and instead tallied evaluative statements which imparted a clear positive or negative tone to the story such as statements from experts presented as non partisan voters or opinionated statements from the networks own reporters. Using these criteria MRC analysts tallied 121 evaluative statements about the Trump administrations approach to the environment from January 20 to August 31 2017 of which 106 88 were negative vs. a mere 15 12 which were positive. This study does not look at all climate change related stories during this time frame. Instead it covers specifically the coverage of President Trumps environmental agenda on ABC World News Tonight CBS Evening News and NBC Nightly News. The most consistent factor in all of this coverage was the criticism. NBC Nightly News correspondent Matt Bradleys July 30 quip that President Donald Trump shifts American climate commitments into reverse was typical of the media attitude towards the presidents environmental policies. On June 2 Nightly News correspondent Kristen Welker promoted an anti Trump protest over this decision hyping the backlash is only heating up. The same night CBS Evening Newss anchor Anthony Mason spoke of the world of opposition to withdraw from the Paris climate accord. Correspondent Chip Reid echoed by referencing worldwide condemnation. NBC Nightly News anchor Savannah Guthrie on June 1 criticized the move to withdraw from the climate treaty detractors say it is a stunning abandonment of the U.S.s leadership in the world and a grave threat to the planet itself. To their credit CBS stood alone in interviewing a conservative to hear the other side of the climate change debate. On April 22 CBS Evening News correspondent Dean Reynolds noted that Joe Bast CEO of The Heartland Institute looks with approval on Mr. Trumps decision to roll back regulations limiting greenhouse gases and to his appointments of fellow skeptics in the administration. Climate change he Bast says is a naturally occurring cyclical phenomenon caused mostly by the sun not an approaching disaster accelerated by carbon dioxide emissions caused by humans. However before stating this position Reynolds noted that most climate scientists the United Nations as well as NASA dismiss these arguments as propaganda for fossil fuels. On March 28 NBC Nightly News profiled celebrations in coal country over Trumps environmental proposals mentioning a barber shop in West Virginia where they cheered the move hoping it will bring back jobs. Afterwards correspondent Kristen Welker noted that federal data shows mines have been losing jobs for decades under both parties. Right now there are less than seventy five thousand coal jobs compared to more than six hundred and fifty thousand in renewable energy which can be less expensive to produce.	True	True	False	True	True
NEW YORK Reuters Only 200 miles separate Michael Tilden and Miranda Garcia in rain soaked Iowa. But they are worlds apart when it comes to their opinion of the weather. Garcia a 38 year old former journalist and Democrat from Des Moines thinks flooding has been getting worse in the state which just came out of its wettest 12 months on record. Tilden a 44 year old math teacher and Republican from Sioux City thinks otherwise Ive noticed essentially the same weather pattern every single year he said. Their different takes underscore a broader truth about the way Americans perceive extreme weather Democrats are far more likely to believe droughts floods wildfires hurricanes and tropical storms have become more frequent or intense where they live in the last decade according to a ReutersIpsos poll. The divergence shows how years of political squabbling over global warming including disputes over its existence have grown deep roots distorting the way Americans view the world around them. The divide will play into the 2020 election as Democratic hopefuls seek to sell aggressive proposals to reduce or even end fossil fuel consumption by drawing links between climate change and recent floods storms and wildfires. Nearly two thirds of Democrats believe severe thunderstorms and floods have become more frequent compared to 42 and 50 of Republicans respectively according to the poll. About half of Democrats meanwhile think droughts hurricanes and tropical storms are more common in their region versus less than a third of Republicans according to the poll. Similarly nearly seven in 10 Democrats said in the poll that severe weather events such as thunderstorms have become more intense compared to 4 of 10 Republicans. And nearly half of Republicans said there has been no change in the intensity of severe weather over the past decade versus a fifth of Democrats. The ReutersIpsos poll was conducted online in English between June 11 and 14 and gathered responses from 3281 people. It has a credibility interval a measure of precision of 2 percentage points up or down. U.S. government researchers have concluded that tropical cyclone activity rainfall and the frequency of intense single day storms have been on the rise according to data compiled by the Environmental Protection Agency. For example six of the 10 most active years for tropical cyclones in the Atlantic basin since 1950 have occurred since the mid 1990s and nine of the top 10 years for extreme one day precipitation events nationwide have occurred since 1990 according to the data. We do expect to see more intense storms said David Easterling a spokesman for the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administrations National Centers for Environmental Information. An overwhelming majority of scientists believe human consumption of fossil fuels is driving sweeping changes in the global climate by ramping up the concentration of heat trapping gases in the atmosphere. But it is impossible to draw a direct link between the changes in U.S. weather in the recent past to the larger trend of warming. President Donald Trump has cast doubt on the science of climate change saying he believes that research into its severity causes and effects is not yet settled. Two years ago he announced the United States would withdraw from a global pact to reduce carbon emissions the Paris Climate Agreement a deal Trump said could damage the U.S. economy. Still a majority of Republicans believe the United States should take aggressive action to combat global warming Reuters polling shows. Some Republican lawmakers have offered proposals for market based approaches to fend off climate change such as cap and trade systems that would force companies to cut carbon emissions or buy credits from those that do. Democrats are pushing more aggressive ideas. Nearly all of the partys presidential hopefuls who seek to unseat Trump in next years election have put forward proposals to end U.S. fossil fuels consumption within a few decades to make the country carbon neutral. Trump has slammed the idea saying it would kill millions of jobs and crush the dreams of the poorest Americans. Jennifer Marlon a research scientist at the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication said the divergence in the way American perceive the weather is being driven by factors including the news they consume and their social circles. Liberals are more likely to expose themselves to news outlets and people who believe climate change is an urgent threat that affects current weather patterns. For more conservative Americans the link between weather and climate change is not a typical conversation Marlon said. Last year the Yale program which carries out scientific research on public knowledge about climate change set out to map the partisan divide on how people perceive the effects of global warming across the United States. It found that 22 of Republicans reported personally experiencing climate change compared to 60 of Democrats. Scientists and researchers at the University of Michigan the University of Exeter and others came to a similar conclusion in a 2018 study which found that political bias and partisan news reporting can affect whether people indicate experiencing certain extreme weather events.	False	True	False	True	False
More and more Americans are coming to the conclusion that climate change is no myth at a time when the Trump administration is intent on ignoring reality and appeasing corporate interests. Some environmental leaders are responding by formulating a lowest common denominator strategy on climate like revenue neutral approaches hoping to magically create a middle ground by bowing to the altar of limited government. Fortunately an inclusive inter sectional and organic resistance is rising. This spring throughout a week of powerful demonstrations from Earth Day to May Day this resistance will blossom. OneAmerica is a multi issue immigrant rights organization that calls Washington state aka the Center of the Resistance home. Our communities are as harmed in the short term by ICE raids and unconstitutional travel bans as they are in the long term by gutted environmental regulations. To fight these destructive and unpopular attacks we need everyone but more importantly we need to follow the leadership of those most impacted by these regulatory rollbacks and programmatic cuts. People across the country overwhelmingly support action on climate and investment in renewable energy sources and believe immigrants make the United States a better place to live. In partnership with our allies among labor environmental faith and progressive business groups OneAmerica has worked with other organizations led by people of color to build a statewide movement for action on climate change that puts our communities and other front line communities first. Our communities to quote environmental justice advocate Majora Carter are the canaries in the coal mine We have already begun to experience climate disruption by virtue of where we live and work and we have always been on the front lines of pollution. Farm worker communities in Eastern Washington have worked through several severely hot summers under threat of wildfires and job loss due to drought. In the Puget Sound region some of the zip codes with the lowest life expectancy and highest pollution burdens are home to large and growing Latino and Asian Pacific American communities. Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people. We demand climate action that addresses historic injustices by pricing pollution and investing in solutions that improve economic and environmental conditions in front line communities. Our policy developed in partnership with mainstream environmental groups labor unions public health organizations and other stakeholders represents some of the best of what a unified national resistance could create Comprehensive equitable action against the biggest existential threat of our generation climate change. Thats why on Saturday April 22nd we will support an inclusive March for Science that embraces research based policies to address climate change. We will push our allies in the movement to use racial equity in their analyses by identifying disparate impacts of pollution and climate disruption and designing remedies that improve conditions for the most overburdened first. The Peoples Climate Movement takes to the streets on Saturday April 29th shedding light on the intertwined destinies of clean energy and employment in the United States and around the world. Finally on May Day OneAmerica will join partner organizations in championing immigrant and workers rights in Seattle and Yakima in solidarity with mobilizations across the country. We will march to demand inter sectional immigrant rights The right to freedom from hate crimes and harassment the right to living wages and safe working conditions the right to love whomever we choose the right to keep families together and the right to a clean and healthy environment. These are the inextricable demands of a resistance as powerful as it is diverse and as strong as it is resilient. Our hope rests not in convincing the willfully ignorant to change their ways but in the coming together of broad based peoples movements prepared to act to take back the initiative moving from resistance to power.	False	True	True	True	False
Statements from activists and politicians linking natural disasters to man made global warming are almost always false according to a book debunking misinformation about climate science. The newest version of the book The Rightful Place of Science Disasters Climate Change by University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. takes on the often false claims peddled in the media about global warming and disasters from hurricanes to floods to droughts. Every time there is a disaster politicians journalists and scientists unfailingly spring to life to tell us that the disaster and the costs and suffering that accompanied it were associated with linked to or even caused by climate change Pielke wrote in his newly updated book. Such statements as Ill show in this book are almost always false he wrote. While no skeptic of man made warming Pielke painstakingly goes through peer reviewed scientific assessments separating the science from the media spin when it comes to natural disasters.RELATED Dan Rather Claims That Global Warming Rarely Tops The Headlines. Is That True? Pielkes motivation in releasing an updated version of his book initially published in 2014 was he saw the issue of extreme weather become politicized. Now journalists and politicians are tying every weather event to man made warming despite the lack of scientific evidence. For example The New Republics Emily Atkinrecently calledfor journalists to put every weather event in the context of global warming. Her call even got a reaction from NPR which defended its reporting but was sympathetic to her message. Popular figures like Bill Nye the Science Guy and former Vice President Al Gore routinely link natural disasters to global warming. California Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown blamed the intense wildfires in his state on a new normal from a warming climate. But the most thorough scientific assessments show no increasing trends in global frequency or intensity for many types of disasters including hurricanes floods droughts and wildfires. While political spin doctors often find ways to parse language and statistics to say things that are plausibly defensible but which are ultimately misleading or just wrong for me such misrepresentations have gone too far in an area where I have some considerable expertise Pielke wrote. The willingness of some in the media and the scientific community to offer false or misleading claims does not offer a route to scientific integrity Pielke wrote. Pielke gives many examples of this including The New York Times hyping of the National Climate Assessment NCA special report released in 2017. The Times claimed the NCA showed how every part of the country has been touched by warming from droughts in the Southeast to flooding in the Midwest to a worrying rise in air and ground temperatures in Alaska and conditions will continue to worsen. The article went on to quote Penn State Universitys Michael Mann to bolster its claim. But Pielke was quick to point how the NCAdid not supportThe Times sweeping claims about warming. Anyone claiming that new US climate report supports attributing trends in extremes to human causes is just wrong Pielke said at the time. However Pielke has paid a price for pointing out inconvenient truths about extreme weather and global warming. Pielkes career beentargetedby Democratic lawmakers and activist journalists to impress a billionaire donor. This stance has ultimately led me to being systematically attacked any time I make a public statement about climate change in effect railroading me out of the climate debate as an unwelcome voice Pielke wrote. While this is often extremely frustrating I remain committed to doing the best job I can analyzing data on climate and disasters in ways that are transparent and grounded in evidence.	False	False	False	True	False
Energy Secretary Rick Perry offered little explanation when protesters pressed him to explain his position on climate change at an energy conference on Tuesday. Instead he opted to tell oneyoung lady to sit down and said its OK to be skeptical about information. You are a climate denier said the first demonstrator as members of the audience booed and called for her to sit down and to get her out of here. In an attempt to defuse the tense moment Perry described the protester as one of the more interesting EIAemployees prompting laughter from the audience. Undeterred the protester kept shouting questions at Perry who then told her If youll sit down young lady Ill finish my remarks. Answer my question why will you not say that climate change is caused by carbon dioxide? she pressed. Perry was referring to remarks he made during an interview last week withCNBC Squawk Box. Perry told host Joe Kernan that carbon dioxide was not the primary control knob for climate change. While man is having an effect on climate he said most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in. His response is in stark contrast to overwhelming scientific consensus based on facts which says human activity specifically greenhouse gas emissions is the primary driver of global warming. The American Meteorological Society skewered Perry for his comments saying in a letter last week that he lacked a fundamental understanding of the science behind climate change. During his EIA conference speech on Tuesday Perry was interrupted a second time by a protester who also called him a climate denier. I think its OK for us to ask questions and be skeptical about information Perry said in response according to a EE News report of the event. Skepticism and debate are always welcome and are critically important to the advancement of science the letter said. In climate science unresolved questions remain issues that currently lack conclusive evidence. However there are also very solid conclusions that are based on decades of research and multiple lines of evidence. Skepticism that fails to account for evidence is no virtue. Later on TuesdayPerry was quizzed about climate change again during a White House press briefing arranged as part of the Trump administrations Energy Week.When asked if President Donald Trump believes in climate changePerry responded I have not had that conversation with him joining a growing list of officials who have refused to comment on the commander in chiefs position on this critical issue.	True	False	False	True	True
A tiny endangered butterfly could stop President Donald Trump from building his beloved border wall. A lawsuit has been filed by the Center for Biological Diversityenvironmental groups and the State of California against theU.S. Department of Homeland Security. It outlines that the Quino checkerspot butterfly Riverside fairy shrimp and the Pacific pocket mouse will be threatened if the border wall is built. The butterfly which is native to southern California and Northern Mexico is already on the endangered species list. The lawsuit contends that the Department of Homeland Security does not have the ability to waive environmental laws requiring review before building the wall. The suit seeks a ruling that a border wall with Mexico must go through normal environmental reviews which could block construction or at least cause major delays. The challengers contend that authority to waive the environmental reviews falls under a 2005 law which has expired. 'The Trump administration can't use an expired waiver to bypass crucial environmental protections to build these destructive projects' Brian Segee a senior attorney at CBDtold San Diego TV stationKGTV. 'It's time to stop Trump's hateful bombast and his executive overreach here in San Diego before it goes any further. The law and the Constitution are firmly on our side and we think the judge will agree.' The DHS is arguing that it is within its right to issue the waivers citing a 1996 immigration law. The case was set to be heard on Friday in San Diego by US DistrictJudge Gonzalo Curiel. Curiel came to national attention in 2016 when he was presiding over one of the cases against Trump University. Trump said that he was biased because of his 'Mexican Heritage' and Trump's stance on the border. At the time he told CNN'We are building a wall. He's a Mexican. We're building a wall between here and Mexico.' Now Curiel will be hearing a case about the wall. On Friday he heard two and a half hours of arguments and saidthat he was leaning toward deciding he has jurisdiction in a lawsuit that alleges the Trump administration overreached in waiving laws that require environmental and other reviews. The administration argues he doesn't have jurisdiction. Curiel asked the administration and wall opponents to file additional briefings by the end of Tuesday.	True	True	False	True	True
Climate scientist Cliff Mass is speaking out against academic political bullying from University of Washington faculty and students stemming from Masss rejection of a carbon tax initiative favored by activists. Science can only flourish when there is tolerance for a diversity of viewpoints and ideas Mass told The Daily Caller News Foundation. Name calling and politicization of science are toxic to the scientific enterprise and undermines our credibility in the general community. I am hopeful that the exposure of such intolerance will lead to an improved working environment in my department and among others in my discipline Mass said via email Wednesday. Climate scientist Judith Curry detailed in a blog postWednesday the actions UW and student activists have taken against Mass in recent months. Curry said Mass was a victim of academic political bullying. There are clearly UW faculty that dont like Cliff Mass including his department chair and most fundamentally they seem to dislike that his blog is getting in the way of their own political advocacy Curry wrote. Mass joined UWs Atmospheric Sciences Department in 1982 where he specializes in numerical weather modeling and weather patterns in the Pacific Northwest. Mass also publishes a science blog and has a popular weekly radio show. RELATED TheDCNF Asked Paris Climate Accord Backers If Theyd Support Banning Private Jets. Most Didnt Respond Mass is no global warming denier as many critics try to label him. Mass has repeatedly called global warming a serious threat and supported policies including carbon taxes to cut carbon dioxide emissions. Despite his agreement with the climate consensus Mass has increasingly come under fire from activists for not toeing the alarmist line when it comes to blaming extreme weather events on global warming. What seems to have driven Masss critics over the edge this time was the atmospheric scientists public opposition to a Washington state carbon tax ballot initiative called I 1631. In particular critics went after a blog post Mass wrote in mid October detailing why he opposed I 1631. Voters overwhelmingly rejected the carbon tax measure in November despite support from Gov. Jay Inslee and other Democrats. I 1631 will be a trough of billions of dollars of cash for left leaning social action and progressive groups and dealing with climate change will be a secondary priority Mass wrote in a blog post with a picture of pigs feeding at a trough. The picture has since been removed. The imagery of pigs feeding at a trough has long been used to describe special interest groups trying to syphon off government spending. State spending seen as wasteful or geared toward a special interest is often called pork or pork barrel spending. However UW students and climate activists claimed it was racist. I 1631 campaigner Izzy Goodman tweetedin October that this alone proves that he is a blatant racist which is probably why his climate policies are too!. She later added UW you going to stand for this? When Mass tried to reason with her UW philosophy Ph.D. candidate Alex Lenferna tweeted Calling you racist for saying racist things is not name calling its an accurate description. The post showed Masss small government racist anti working class view tweeted Lenferna who also campaigned for I 1631. Student activists didnt stop at Twitter insults. Curry who spoke at length with Mass about the events wrote The attacks ramped up when a group of students complained to the Assistant Dean for Diversity Equity and Inclusion. Curry said the students accused Mass of deception being on the payroll of oil companies purposely obfuscating with multiple twitter accounts racism misogyny tokenism Trumpism. Rather than meet with Cliff Mass to discuss the Assistant Dean sent a mass email to the faculty of the Atmospheric Sciences Department echoing student complaints Curry wrote. The assistant deans email claimed the blog had imagery and text that was racially insensitive and caused offense to a significant number of members in the departmental community. The assistant dean made no attempt to contact Mass or try to understand that there was no racism evident or intended and that the image in question was quickly removed from the blog post Curry wrote. The matter didnt end there however and Atmospheric Sciences Department Chair Dale Durran sent a mass email to the Department faculty including the link to Lenfernas post and voicing concern about Mass behavior and racism' Curry noted. Durran held a faculty wide meeting on Dec. 4. Durran reportedly took control of the meeting and even prevented Mass from finishing his opening remarks. RELATED Washington Governor Warns There Is Not Survival From Climate Change. That Is Unless His Policies Are Adopted Durran hectored Mass throughout the meeting Curry wrote. The activist students were true to form hurling all kinds of insulting personal and inappropriate remarks as Mass sat through the inquisition. Duran was an ardent supporter of I 1631. Durran got 21 of his colleagues to sign a public letter published in The Seattle Times in late October endorsing the carbon tax ballot measure. Now is the time to take a big step to kick our carbon habit Durran and his colleagues wrote. However Curry reported that several faculty members felt uncomfortable signing this including one who told her they actually voted against the measure. Durran did not respond to TheDCNFs request for comment. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	True	False
President Trump exceeded his authority when he reversed bans on offshore drilling in vast parts of the Arctic Ocean and dozens of canyons in the Atlantic Ocean a U.S. judge said in a ruling that restored the Obama era restrictions. U.S. District Court Judge Sharon Gleason in a decision late Friday threw out Mr. Trump's executive order that overturned the bans that comprised a key part of Obama's environmental legacy. Presidents have the power under a federal law to remove certain lands from development but cannot revoke those removals Gleason said. The wording of President Obama's 2015 and 2016 withdrawals indicates that he intended them to extend indefinitely and therefore be revocable only by an act of Congress said Gleason who was nominated to the bench by Obama. The American Petroleum Institute a defendant in the case disagreed with the ruling. In addition to bringing supplies of affordable energy to consumers for decades to come developing our abundant offshore resources can provide billions in government revenue create thousands of jobs and will also strengthen our national security it said in a statement. Erik Grafe an attorney with Earthjustice welcomed the ruling saying it shows that the president cannot just trample on the Constitution to do the bidding of his cronies in the fossil fuel industry at the expense of our oceans wildlife and climate. Earthjustice represented numerous environmental groups that sued the Trump administration over the April 2017 executive order reversing the drilling bans. At issue in the case was the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. Acting Assistant U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Wood said during a hearing before Gleason in November that environmental groups were misinterpreting the intent of the law written in 1953. He said it is meant to be flexible and sensible and not intended to bind one president with decisions made by another when determining offshore stewardship as needs and realities change over time. In 2015 Mr. Obama halted exploration in coastal areas of the Beaufort and Chukchi seas and the Hanna Shoal an important area for walrus. In late 2016 he withdrew most other potential Arctic Ocean lease areas about 98 percent of the Arctic outer continental shelf. The bans were intended to protect polar bears walruses ice seals and Alaska Native villages that depend on the animals. In the Atlantic Mr. Obama banned exploration in 5937 square miles of underwater canyon complexes citing their importance for marine mammals deep water corals valuable fish populations and migratory whales.	True	False	False	True	True
Global warming is partially responsible for a decades old oil spill that happened after an Exxon Mobil tanker hit a barrier reef according to a Los Angeles Times report funded in part by liberal billionaire George Soros. The LA Times published a wide ranging piece Thursday suggesting climate change laid the groundwork for the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill a disaster that eventually dumped more than 10 million gallons of crude off the coast of Alaska. Higher than normal water temperatures near Prince William Sound caused ice bergs to chip off the Columbia Glacier and force the ship into uncharted territory. Floating chunks of ice forced the tanker out of its primary shipping lane the paper noted. It veered off and crashed into the Bligh Reef causing Exxon more than 3.4 billion through 2008 in cleanup costs and court settlements. Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project the group that conducted the papers report was also involved in an investigation last November targeting Exxons climate change research. Thursdays report dovetails with the groups previous investigations showing the oil company hid knowledge about climate change from the public for years. For the two decades following the Exxon Valdez disaster the company worked quietly to safeguard its operations and infrastructure against steadily rising sea levels and thawing permafrost The LA Times wrote. Yet in public it vociferously fought regulations and policies that would have limited fossil fuel emissions while publicly questioning the science behind climate change. Some climate scientists believe the LA Times is taking a leap of faith. Roy Spencer a climate scientist at the University of Alabama in Huntsville for one told The Daily Caller News Foundation that ice always calves off glaciers because snow falls on the mountains and the ice flows downhill no global warming needed. There is a perfectly reasonable explanation for why ice bergs were cleaving off glaciers at the time of the Valdez disaster he said and it doesnt really have anything to do with man made global warming. If the Columbia Glacier was calving more in the 1980s its most likely because the Pacific Decadal Oscillation PDO flipped in the late 1970s which caused it to suddenly warm in Alaska Spencer added referencing an El Nino like weather pattern that commonly affects the area the oil spill. What happened to the Valdez is no different than what happened to the Titanic he said referring to the passenger ship that hit an iceberg in 1912 which killed thousands of people heading to New York from England. Several wealthy philanthropic groups such as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund RBF Rockefeller Family Fund RFF and the Open Society Foundations bankrolled large portions of the LA Times report. Soros is the director and founder of Open Society and has financed climate crusades in the past. RFF has single handedly financially propped up the anti Exxon campaign. It also pressured various attorneys general into investigating Exxon namely for the purposes of bringing the company up on racketeering charges. The only way to target Exxon for hiding climate change research was to request the New York AGs office to open an investigation into the company David Kaiser and Lee Wasserman directors of RFFwrote in an editorialfor New York Books. The LA Times for its part has failed in the past to disclose itsties with RFF. Wassermanwrote an op edin January for the California paper fleshing out specifics about the probes into Exxons climate research. The paper disclosed the Wassermans financial contributions to the investigation but falsely suggested RFF had nothing to do with the investigations. TheFund has made grants to the Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project and InsideClimate News but hasno involvement in articles they produce the papers disclosure notes. The disclosure implies RFF did not actively participate in the investigations which were first reported by environmental media group InsideClimate News and the LA Times last November. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	True	False	False	True	True
Former Vice President Al Gore said Monday that the U.S. is going through a challenging time under the Trump administration decrying President Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement. Weve never had a president whos deliberately made decisions the effect of which is to tear down Americas standing in the world starting with his withdrawal from the Paris Agreement Gore said Monday on NBCs Today Show. The climate crisis is by far the most serious challenge we face. Trump announced last month that the U.S. would withdraw from the Paris Agreement an international pact signed by more than 190 countries to commit to fighting climate change by reducing carbon dioxide emissions. Gore who has spent much of his time after his 2000 presidential run crusading to fight climate change met with Trump last year at Trump Tower to discuss climate change. The meetings had given Gore hope that the president would come to his senses about the Paris Agreement. But I was wrong Gore said. He declined to elaborate on what was discussed in the meeting. Trump who has called climate change a hoax argued in June that withdrawing from the Paris Agreement would benefit the U.S. economy. Well the business community does not believe that at all Gore said on CBS Sunday Morning. There are now twice as many jobs in the solar industry as in the coal industry. In the U.S. the number of solar jobs is growing 17 times faster than the number of jobs in other industries Gore said calling the solar industry one of the brightest spots in our economic revival. But the former vice president who won a Nobel Peace Prize for his climate change work has faced pushback from some conservatives for his efforts. Fox Friends criticized Gore for comparing the climate change fight to fights against moral issues such as slavery and apartheid in a July 13 speech at the Ecocity World summit in Australia. The climate movement not least in cities is right now in the tradition of all the great moral causes that have improved the circumstances of humanity throughout our history Gore said in the speech. The abolition of slavery. Womens suffrage and womens rights. The civil rights movement and the anti apartheid movement in South Africa. Seriously?? Former VP Al Gore compares climate battle to fight against slavery and apartheid Fox Friends tweeted. The longtime climate change battle advocate has taken criticism of his work in stride. If everybodys just completely happy with what youre doing you may not be working hard enough to bring about the kind of change that we need Gore said on CBS. He added that hell continue to fight climate change adding I could not lay this fight down or put it aside even if I wanted to. I dont want to. On NBC Gore was quick to say that Trumps decision to leave the Paris Agreement is just one of the ways in which the president has hurt Americas standing in the world citing damage to international alliances such as NATO. The months ahead will be a test for the American people Gore said on NBC.	True	False	False	True	True
President Donald Trump delivered a common sense appeal on Earth Day telling his followers on Twitter on Saturday afternoon Today on Earth Day we celebrate our beautiful forests lakes and land. We stand committed to preserving the natural beauty of our nation. Three hours later Trump added I am committed to keeping our air and water clean but always remember that economic growth enhances environmental protection. Jobs matter! Trumps Earth Day messages come as thousands of protesters across the country have taken to the streets to defend science against what they claim are anti science policies and proposals from the White House. Critics of Trumps energy policies seized on the opportunity to criticize the president for his Earth Day message. Roland Scahill from New York wrote If you could you would transform every inch of nature into a Trump golf course. You have no love or admiration for nature. Public radio show host Al Letson wrote How will you preserve the natural beauty of the land if you dismantle the Nathan Bernard from Brooklyn New York replied on Twitter You say Happy as you prepare to literally blow up the entire earth. Then start taking action on global warming and quit calling it fake news said self described feminist and human rights activist Cole Ledford to Trump. One of the biggest complaints from protesters is Trump has proposed cutting 54 billion from numerous federal government agencies including a cut to the Environmental Protection Agency that tops 30 percent. Trump has also issued climate and energy related executive orders the most substantial of which was signed at the end of March. In that order which is titled Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth Trump pulled back from the Obama era Clean Power Plan and lifted a 14 month moratorium on new coal leases issued to developers seeking to mine on federal lands. According to a report by Fox News the order also chips away at other regulations including scrapping language on the social cost of greenhouse gases. It initiates a review of efforts to reduce the emission of methane in oil and natural gas production as well as a Bureau of Land Management hydraulic fracturing rule to determine whether those reflect the presidents policy priorities. It also rescinds Obama era executive orders and memoranda including one that addressed climate change and national security and one that sought to prepare the country for the impacts of climate change. Trump maintains that his policies will both protect the environment and help spur job growth. Were going to have safety were going to have clean water were going to have clean air but so many regulations are unnecessary so many are job killing Trump said in March.	True	False	False	False	True
Glamour Rep. John Shimkus R Ill. long a climate change denier who in the past has relied on Bible verses to make his case argued against the Green New Deal at a House hearing on Wednesday. Moments after he started speaking Wednesday morning before the House Committee on Energy and Commerce Rep. John Shimkus R Ill. urged Democrats to accept that proposing top down government requirements to rapidly decarbonize the U.S. and global economies may not be the most realistic way to address the climate change problem. We should be open to the fact that wealth transfer schemes suggested in the radical policies like the Green New Deal may not be the best path said Shimkus who less than a decade ago deployed Bible verses to dismiss the realities of climate science. Two congressional hearings on Wednesday morning the first science based discussions in the House focused on climate change in years did little to move the needle on a long stagnant policy debate on how to keep global warming from reaching temperatures with catastrophic consequences. But GOP opposition to a Green New Deal the grassroots effort to dramatically cut greenhouse gas emissions that has energized activists for months was on full display. Once a vague term for clean energy stimulus the Green New Deal re emergedin the political discourse in mid 2018. A cadre of left wing Democratic candidates began using it to describe plans to spend trillions of dollars on a national industrial strategy to zero out fossil fuel emissions and power the country with 100 percent renewables in a decade. The proposals electrified a static debate that too often ranged from outright denialism of climate change by some to dubious market fixes offered by others. Scientists quickly praised the idea of a Green New Deal as the first policy on the scale of the climate crisis. In November newly elected Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. positioned herself as the champion of the Green New Deal movement. After failing to persuade House Democratic leaders to establish a select committee on a Green New Deal she began work on a sweeping new resolution outlining a transformative policy to guarantee high wage clean energy jobs to millions of Americans and upgrade the nations crumbling infrastructure to withstand already unavoidable extreme weather and sea level rise. Despite years of partisan bickering over the realities of climate change the idea proved popular. Eighty one percent of registered voters said they supported the main goals of the Green New Deal in a poll released in December. That included 64 percent of Republicans and 57 percent of self described conservative Republicans. Last month another poll found a narrow majority of voters said they supported a Green New Deal even if it required raising taxes to fund it. Rich Powell the executive director of the conservative clean energy advocacy group ClearPath complained that the emissions projected to come from new coal fired plants in other countries particularly India and China would completely offset the climate benefits of the U.S. completely decarbonizing. As HuffPost reported on Tuesday the Green New Deal resolution Ocasio Cortez and Sen. Ed Markey D Mass. are expected to unveil this week does just that calling on the nation to promote the international exchange of technology expertise products funding and services with the aim to reclaim U.S. leadership on climate change to help other countries achieve a Green New Deal. You only have to be 25 years old to be a member of Congress. We have young people that bring a lot of great qualities but maybe they dont bring a lot of life experience he said. I guess I can understand if someone has not had a lot of life experience and theyre proposing something thats extremely unrealistic well impossible. Impossible. What I dont understand is adults and grownups who are older and more mature who are also advocating something thats impossible he added referring to several of the 2020 Democratic presidential hopefuls. Rep. Louie Gohmert R Texas resorted to misrepresenting the Green New Del proposal in arguing against it. He said he and other Republicans have real concerns about shuttering military bases around the globe and cutting military spending by 50 percent proposals floated not by any congressional Democrats in the climate change debate but by Green Party presidential nominee Jill Stein in 2016. Gohmert told panel witness Rev. Lennox Yearwood president of the national nonprofitHip Hop Caucus that he found it interesting at the activist would support a Green New Deal given Yearwoods previous service as an officer in the U.S. Air Force Reserve Chaplain Corps.	False	False	False	True	False
The Seychelles has created protected areas the size of Great Britain in the Indian Ocean. In exchange for getting some of its national debt paid off the island nation has agreed to protect 210000 sq km 81000 sq miles of ocean. The reserves will limit tourism and fishing activities in the Seychelles to halt further damage to aquatic life. A foundation set up by actor Leonardo DiCaprio is one of the investors that worked on the deal. The Oscar winner said This effort will help the people of Seychelles protect their ocean for future generations and will serve as a model for future marine conservation projects worldwide. Seychelles President Danny Faure said Our large ocean brings development opportunities but also responsibility. By planning properly to protect our environment we can be sure we are also protecting our people and their livelihoods against an uncertain future. This is understood to be the first debt swap designed to protect ocean areas in the world. The Seychelles government agreed the debt swap with the Nature Conservancy a US charity and a number of investors back in 2016. Under the terms of the 21m 15m deal the charity and the investors including the Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation paid for a portion of the Seychelles national debt. The country will then direct future national debt payments into a new trust the Seychelles Conservation and Climate Adaptation Trust SeyCCAT. This trust will offer lower interest rates on debt repayments and any savings will go to fund new projects designed to protect marine life and handle the effects of climate change. The Seychelles is raising the percentage of its protected waters from 0.04 to 30 by 2020 as part of the agreement. This first part of the plan creates two new marine parks. The first covers the Aldabra islands home to hundreds of thousands of tortoises nesting bird colonies and the dugong one of the more endangered species in the Indian Ocean. This area will be fully protected with only research and regulated tourism allowed. The second area concerns the seas around the Seychelles' main islands and will limit the fishing and tourism activities there. This is a critical accomplishment in our mission to bring conservation to scale across the globe said Nature Conservancy CEO Mark Tercek. What you see today in Seychelles is what we expect to introduce in the Caribbean and other ocean regions facing the threats of climate change.	True	True	False	True	True
So saysJames Lovelock 98 one of the worlds pre eminent environmentalists in a wide ranging interview on todays Delingpole podcast for Breitbart. Lovelock is probably best known in environmental circles as the progenitor of Gaia theory the idea that the planet is a self regulating living organism. In 2006 he boosted his green credibility even further with his bestselling book The Revenge of Gaia whose doomsday narrative predicted that by 2100 climate change would have wiped out 80 percent of the worlds population. But Lovelock has since renounced this view. Though he still thinks carbon dioxide is a problem because of its warming effects on the climate he now believes the threat is not immediate. His change of heart was brought aboutpartly by being in Oslo when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. He was not impressed by the calibre of the scientists attached to the IPCC least of all its then head Rajendra Pachauri who turned out to be somewhat corrupt. There is global warming. But the stupid bloody academics screwed it up he says now meaning that they got their sums wrong and exaggerated the speed with which the planet is warming. A bigger worry he says are the wrong headed policies being introduced supposedly to combat climate change. He particularly loathes wind turbines because they are expensive inefficient and environmentally damaging. The only reason they are being built he says is because there is so much money in renewable energy. Im sure theres giant corruption going on. The solution he argues is nuclear power which has had a terrible press because of green propaganda most likely funded by fossil fuel industries. Nuclears health risks have been exaggerated by credulous greens who say theres no amount of radiation that cant give you cancer. But this is nonsense says Lovelock. Its as stupid as saying you should never go out of your home because if you do theres a chance youll be killed by something or other. He feels the same way about the scare about pesticides which greens have been heavily promoting ever since Rachel Carsons eco doom bestseller Silent Spring published in 1962. It was Lovelock who invented the device an Electron Capture Detector used to measure the tiniest quantities of substances be they pesticides or CFCs. What this device showed is that yes pesticides have indeed become so embedded in the food chain that they are detectable in every living thing. This has made the Greens very happy he says because it seems to confirm all their worst suspicions about pollutants chemicals and health hazards. But it shouldnt he adds because with certain exceptions they are not a problem. The fact that this stuff is there measured in picograms or fractions of a picogram is of no consequence to people he says. Lovelocks remarks are unlikely to endear him to the green movement. His Gaia hypothesis first formulated in the 1960s while he was working with NASA trying to establish how to detect life on Mars has inspired many people to join the green religion. And even like actress Emma Thompson to name their daughter after it. But far far worse in many environmentalists eyes will bethe unlikely revelation he confided to me over lunch hes a great admirer of Donald Trump whom he recognises as a fellow maverick.	False	False	True	False	False
According to Lawrence Solomon of Energy Probe a Toronto based environmental organization Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is one of the only signers of the Paris agreement who is actually abiding by the exacting demands of the accord. Meanwhile Solomon notes in an essay in Fridays Financial Post most signatories are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios. Trudeau now stands almost alone in sincere support of Paris Solomon writes. The populist backlash a revulsion at top down governments laden with jet setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses has swept America with Trumps election Great Britain with Brexit much of Europe and Australia. In the process global warming enthusiasts are being swept out he writes. Last week Australia rejected its Clean Energy Target CET a lengthy proposal that would have forced electricity utilities to rely on renewables and other low emission sources for a substantial percentage of their production. The measure had been put forward as a way of complying with requirements of the non binding Paris agreement. Earlier this month the prominent Australian economist Judith Sloan wrote a scathing essay decrying renewable energy as the greatest scam being perpetrated against taxpayers and consumers greater even than Ponzi Madoffor Enron. While sinking enormous financial resources into propping up renewable energy prospectors national governments are providing no perceptible benefits to their citizens Sloan wrote. With very few exceptions governments all over the world have fallen into the trap of paying renewable energy scammers on the basis that it is necessary at least politically to be seen to be doing something about climate change Sloan writes before providing readers with an avalanche of economic data to back up her assertion. Apparently Sloans arguments and those of like minded analysts prevailed on policy makers and the country rejected the CET with its taxpayer funded subsidizing of renewables. A second blow to disciples of the Paris Climate Accord was last weeks Austrian election Solomon argues which saw two conservative parties with no interest in climate change it wasnt even an election issue come in first and second making them likely to form a pro carbon coalition government. Germany too which has been a staunch proponent of anti climate change regulations has fallen hopelessly behind in meeting its carbon targets according to a leak. The current state of affairs has not only undermined Germanys climate policy but also jeopardizes Germanys international reputation as a climate leader Solomon asserts. According to the analyst popular opinion against German Chancellor Angela Merkels Energiewende energy transition policies which had doubled electricity prices played no small part in Merkels terrible showing in last months national elections. Costs of the ill fated Energiewende now total some 650 billion a bill that weighs heavily on the shoulders of German taxpayers. Late last year to their national embarrassment the Germans had to be bailed out of a small energy crisis by Poland when the wind failed to blow for several days and a thick fog surrounded many parts of Germany driving the output from renewables to just 4 percent of total demand. It was coal fueled Poland that had to rescue Germany from its self induced energy crisis. Merkel may now be unable to form a government without the support of the libertarian Free Democratic Party which demands an end to renewables subsidies Solomon notes. And so around the worldexcept in Trudeaus Canadanations are once again turning back to inexpensive coal rather than pouring more money into costly renewables and coal plants are being built at five times the rate that old plants are being decommissioned. This quiet revolution may simply be a welcome return to common sense and realism. After all once the photo ops are finished and the politically correct accords are duly signed amidst solemn brow furling political leaders must get back to the business of meeting the real needs of their citizenswhich all depend on the availability of affordable energy.	True	False	False	True	True
A federal judge smacked down a new effort by the Trump administration to roll back an Obama era rule aimed at restricting harmful methane emissions from oil and gas production on federal lands according to a new report on Wednesday. The news comes as Donald Trumps Interior Department was in the process of delaying the regulation until 2019 calling it too burdensome to the industry. More from the report via The Washington Post The order by a judge in San Francisco came as the Interior Department moved to delay the rule until 2019 saying it was too burdensome to industry. The action followed an earlier effort by Interior to postpone part of the rule set to take effect next year. U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte of the Northern District of California said Interior had failed to give a reasoned explanation for the changes and had not offered details why an earlier analysis by the Obama administration was faulty. She ordered the entire rule reinstated immediately. As the U.S. Magistrate Judge Laporte noted in her ruling the reason she called for the Obama era rule to be reinstated right away is that the Trump administration cannot give a reasoned explanation as to why its flawed. In a way that cuts to the heart of everything this administration has done so far when it comes to environmental policy. After all there is no reasonable explanation for anything this president has done when it comes to the environment whether its allowing toxic sludge to be dumped in our waterways or pulling out of the historic Paris climate accord. While the previous administration let science and data drive its climate agenda the Trump administration has had one goal in mind destroying former President Obamas environmental legacy. On Wednesday one federal judge reminded Donald Trump that hating Barack Obama is not a good enough reason to ignore key environmental protections.	True	False	False	True	True
Former Vice President Al Gore accused the Trump administration of trying to bury a damning government report that linked global warming to the worsening of natural disasters by quietly releasing the study on the Friday after Thanksgiving. Gore who since his time as vice president has become an outspoken advocate for the need to counteract the effects of global warming said in a statement that the White House was trying to bury this critical U.S. assessment of the climate crisis by releasing it the day after Thanksgiving. The day known as Black Fridayhas become the traditional start of the holiday shopping season and one that most Americans have off from work. Unbelievably deadly and tragic wildfires rage in the West hurricanes batter our coasts and the Trump administration chooses the Friday after Thanksgiving to try and bury this critical U.S. assessment of the climate crisis Gore said in a statement that he posted on Twitter Friday.The president may try to hide the truth but his own scientists and experts have made it as stark and clear as possible. The National Climate Assessment which is mandated by law every few years and is based on more than 1000 previous research studies details how global warming from the burning of coal oil and gas is hurting each region of the United States and how it impacts different sectors of the economy including energy and agriculture. It was written long before the deadly fires in California this month and before Hurricanes Florence and Michael raked the East Coast and Florida. Climate change is transforming where and how we live and presents growing challenges to human health and quality of life the economy and the natural systems that support us the report says. This includes worsening air pollution causing heart and lung problems more diseases from insects the potential for a jump in deaths duringheat waves and nastier allergies according to the report. Annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century more than the current gross domestic product GDP of many U.S. states the report says. It'll be especially costly on the nation's coasts because of rising seas and severe storm surges which will lower property values. And in some areas such as parts of Alaska and Louisiana coastal flooding will likely force people to relocate. While Gore has become one of the most prominent advocates for reducing carbon emissions and fighting to reduce the effect of climate change the former vice president has not been immune from claims that his work is not as altruistic as it appears. Gore left the vice presidents residence with a relatively modest net worth of 1.7 million mostly from family farm assets but since the release of his 2006 documentary An Inconvenient Truth and his continuing global tour to preach his message he has amassed a fortune valued at upward of 200 million. From the fossil fuels he burns jetting around the globe to his socializing with Hollywood heavy hitters to his 6500 square foot seafront home in California that cost 8.8 million some climate activists have questioned whether Gore is helping or hurting the climate fight. He is a flawed character Stephen Lacey editor in chief of the magazine GreenTechMedia said on his podcast The Energy Gang last year. Were in an era of backlash against elites so Gore a guy who bought a 6500 square foot seafront home in California for 8.8 million and who hangs around with other celebrities who talk big on climate but who live lavish lifestyles is the perfect target at this point in time. Gores lifestyle aside his statement comes amid what appears to be a continuing denial from Trump and members of his administration about the dangers climate changeposes to the environment and to the worlds economy. Earlier in the week Trump tweeted about the brutal cold spell that hit the East Coast over the Thanksgiving holiday and questioned Whatever happened to Global Warming? Friday's report seemed to anticipate such comments saying Over shorter timescales and smaller geographic regions the influence of natural variability can be larger than the influence of human activity ... Over climate timescales of multiple decades however global temperature continues to steadily increase. The Lower 48 states have warmed 1.8 degrees 1 degree Celsius since 1900 with 1.2 degrees in the last few decades according to the report. By the end of the century the U.S. will be 3 to 12 degrees 1.6 to 6.6 degrees Celsius hotter depending on how much greenhouse gases are released into the atmosphere the report warns. Releasing the report on Black Friday is a transparent attempt by the Trump administration to bury this report and continue the campaign of not only denying but suppressingthe best of climate science said study co author Andrew Light an international policy expert at the World Resources Institute. During a press conference Friday officials behind the report repeatedly declined to answer questions about the timing of its release and why it contradicts public statements from Trump. Report director David Reidmiller said questions about the timing were relevant but said what was in the report was more important. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	True	False	True	True	True
A United Nations special climate report suggests a tax on carbon dioxide emissions would need to be as high as 27000 per ton at the end of the century to effectively limit global warming. For Americans thats the same as a 240 per gallon tax on gasoline in the year 2100 should such a recommendation be adopted. In 2030 the report says a carbon tax would need to be as high as 5500 thats equivalent to a 49 per gallon gas tax. If you think thats an unlikely scenario youre probably not wrong. However its what the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes report released Sunday night sees as a policy option for reducing emissions enough to keep projected warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. The IPCCs report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December. The report calls for societal changes that are unprecedented in terms of scale in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius the stretch goal of the Paris accord. However the costs of meeting that goal are high based on the IPCCs own figures. RELATED Heres What The Media Wont Tell You About The U.N.s New Climate Report In order to effectively keep future warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius the IPCC says carbon taxes would need to range from 135 to 5500 per ton in 2030 245 to 13000 per ton in 2050 420 to 17000 per ton in 2070 and 690 to 27000 per ton in 2100. To meet the goals of the Paris accord which seeks to limit future warming to below 2 degrees Celsius the IPCC says carbon taxes would have range between 10 and 200 in 2030 and 160 and 2125 in 2100. Thats equivalent to a gas tax as high as 1.70 per gallon in 2030 to nearly 19 per gallon at the end of the century. Thats less onerous than limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius but still no walk in the park. California and many European countries have policies to price carbon dioxide emissions and mandate green energy including cap and trade systems and carbon taxes. But carbon prices under those systems are nowhere near where the IPCC says they need to be. The IPCC said the price of carbon would need to increase significantly when a higher level of stringency is pursued. However the groups report tacitly acknowledges the unlikelihood that governments will enact astronomical taxes on energy. While the price of carbon is central to prompt mitigation pathways compatible with 1.5 degree Celsius consistent pathways a complementary mix of stringent policies is required reads the IPCCs report. In the U.S. Republican lawmakers overwhelmingly passed a resolution opposed to carbon taxes in July. Democrats called for a price on carbon dioxide in their 2016 party platform but they havent made much effort on that front since the failure of cap and trade legislation in 2010. Republican Rep. Carlos Curbelo of Florida introduced carbon tax legislation shortly after all but five of his GOP colleagues in the House voted to oppose such a bill. Curbelos bill would tax carbon dioxide at 23 a ton nowhere near what the IPCC calls for. However the IPCC suggested a lower carbon tax could be used in conjunction with command and control policies like regulations and bans on coal plants could achieve generate a 1.5C pathway for the U.S. electric sector. But that point only serves to undermine Curbelos bill which would put a moratorium on some environmental regulations and possibly eliminate some if emissions goals are reached. The IPCC noted the literature indicates that the pricing of emissions is relevant but needs to be complemented with other policies to drive the required changes in line with 1.5C consistent cost effective pathways.	True	True	True	True	True
Strong winds on Sunday were expected to hamper progress for crews battling California wildfires which have now claimed at least 79 lives. Gusts of up to 50mph were threatening efforts to control the Camp blaze which is still only 55 contained 10 days after it brought devastation to northern California. The fire which destroyed nearly 10000 homes and has spread across 233sq miles is already the deadliest American wildfire in a century. And there are fears that the eventual death toll will rise much higher with almost 1300 people still unaccounted for. However it seems likely that number of missing persons may be an over estimate amid confusion over the way the list has been compiled. Butte county sheriff Kory Honea has stressed that the roster has been built up from missing person reports from calls reports and emails since the fire began on 8 November. He has described it as raw data and said there is the likely possibility that the list contains duplicate names and some evacuees who have not reported themselves safe. Californias outgoing Democratic governor Jerry Brown visited the scene of devastation at the town of Paradise with Donald Trump on Saturday. He told CBSs Face the Nation that Trump has got our back and has committed emergency support. Trump initially blamed state officials for poor forest management in making the fires in northern and southern California worse and even threatened to cut off federal funding. At the scene on Saturday Trump recounted a conversation he had in Paris on 11 November with Finlands president Sauli Niinisto who talked about monitoring forest resources with a good surveillance system. Trump said wildfires werent a problem in Finland because the Finns spend a lot of time on raking leaves and cleaning and doing things. But Sauli Niinist president of Finland told one of the countrys leading newspapers Ilta Sanomat on Sunday that he never discussed raking with Trump. I mentioned to him that Finland is a land covered by forests and we also have a good monitoring system and network Niinist said but had no recollection of mentioning raking of leaves or forest undergrowth which the president appears to have seized on as a key point in wildfire prevention while dismissing the issue of global warming. Asked on Saturday whether he thought climate change had a role in the fires he said you have a lot of factors. And asked if seeing the devastation changed his mind on climate change Trump said No. No. I have a strong opinion. I want great climate. Were going to have that. Jerry Brown in the interview aired on Sunday said Changing climate and the increasing drought and the lower humidity and water vapor were important factors. He said Managing the forest is part of it. Theyre a lot denser than they were 200 years ago. But on top of that we have this five year drought. We have reduced rainfall. We have the dryness that turns vegetation and bushes and houses and trees into literally into timber. So its ready to explode. So there is an atmospheric element which is part of the natural cycle and then there is an increasing effect of climate change. But asked if he had made that case to Trump he said I certainly raised it but I didnt feel that that was where we needed to go then added that science would be the guide for analysing the fires and the president in no way negated that.	False	False	False	True	True
Sen. Elizabeth Warren D MA on Wednesday unveiled her plan to address environmental injustice and environmental racism which includes a 1 trillion investment into minority communities affected by industrial pollution. Warren argues that justice plays a massive role in properly addressing the climate change crisis citing studies that suggest that black and Hispanic families are disproportionately affected by air pollution caused by white people Warren calls this phenomenon environmental racism and concludes that environmental injustice is the result of decades of discrimination and environmental racism compounding in communities that have been overlooked for too long. She previewed her plan in a video clip featuring far left Squad member Rep. Rashida Tlaib D MI. We need a government thats on the side of familiesnot giant corporations polluting our communities. and I walked through 48217 the most polluted zip code in Michigan and talked with the families living every day with the effects of pollution Warren tweeted alongside the clip Like Warrens other proposals her environmental injustice plan weaves in aspects of her other campaign promises. For instance Warren says her housing plan will provide an assistance program aimed to get impoverished families out of poor pollution ridden neighborhoods and into the neighborhood of their choice. She also pledges to invest one third or 1 trillion of her climate change investment into the most vulnerable communities although she does not specify what the 1 trillion will be spent on specifically. Like most of Warrens plans her environmental injustice proposal involves the implementation of another tax. In this instance it is the Superfund Waste Tax. There are over 1300 remaining Superfund sites across the country many located in or adjacent to frontline communities. So called orphan toxic waste clean ups were originally funded by a series of excise taxes on the petroleum and chemical industries. But thanks to Big Oil and other industry lobbyists when that tax authority expired in 1995 it was not renewed. Polluters must pay for the consequences of their actions not leave them for the communities to clean up. Ill work with Congress to reinstate and then triple the Superfund tax generating needed revenue to clean up the mess. The presidential hopeful even weaves in Medicare for All as part of her broader proposal arguing such a system will make it easier for the federal government to quickly tailor health care responses to specific environmental disasters in affected communities when they occur. Warren also reiterates her pledge to ensure that employers and our government honor the promises they made to workers in fossil fuel industries. Ive fought for years to protect pensions and health benefits for retired coal workers and Ill continue fighting to maintain the solvency of multi employer pension plans she said. As president Ill protect those benefits that fossil fuel workers have earned. However Warrens role in crafting a petition to the Supreme Court on behalf of LTV Steel which helped the companys fight against a congressional requirement that it pay millions of dollars into a fund for its retired coal miners health care calls her promise into question. As Ive traveled this country Ive heard the human stories from frontline communities. Families where many people have cancer. Coastal communities facing the threat of rising sea levels. Ruined land and poisoned water Warren tweeted. These communities need justiceand I will stand with them she added	True	False	False	True	False
Former Vice President Al Gore said the Central American migrant caravan seeking asylum in the U.S. is a recent startling example of global warming forcing people from their homes. People from all over the world are being forced to migrate because the climate crisis is affecting their livelihood. The migrant caravan from Central America is a recent startling example Gore tweeted Monday. The migrant caravan made up of thousands of mostly young males from Honduras and other Central American countries arrived at the U.S. Mexico border in November seeking asylum. Migrants are fleeing violent corrupt countries with poor economies but some environmentalists and journalists claim global warming is also to blame. Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on climate change and the migrant caravan claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence climate change is also playing a part based on an interview with a farmer turned migrant whos crop failed. The video published on Dec. 13 largely reflects arguments made by some media outlets in the past few months that migrant caravans to the U.S. are a preview of climate migrations meaning people driven from their homes due to global warming. Many experts who have seriously examined claims linking climate to violent conflict and mass migrations have found little evidence to support such claims but the media still applied the narrative by linking global warming to Central American migrations. Experts say that climate change in the region is exacerbating and sometimes causing a miasma of other problems including crop failures and povertyThe Guardian reported in October. And they warn that in the coming decades it is likely to push millions more people north towards the US the paper reported. Central American officials also claim global warming is part of the reason why their citizens are fleeing en mass. Governments say droughts have been made more frequent and intense by global warming. However the latest United Nations climate report in 2014 found low confidence in a global scale observed trend in drought or dryness lack of rainfall since the middle of the 20th century. The Guardian also noted that federal data showed a surge in outward migration from western Honduras a prime coffee producing area. The collapse in coffee bean prices has made growing it less profitable forcing migrants to hit the road. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	False	True
ROME Pope Francis told a group of lawyers that he could like to introduce the category of ecological sin into official Catholic teaching. We must introduce we are thinking about it in the Catechism of the Catholic Church the sin against ecology the ecological sin against the common home because it is a duty the pope said Friday in addressing participants in an international conference on penal law. More specifically Francis said are all those actions that can be considered as ecocide for instance the massive contamination of air land and water resources the large scale destruction of flora and fauna and any action capable of producing an ecological disaster or destroying an ecosystem. Ecocide is to be understood as the loss damage or destruction of the ecosystems of a given territory so that its utilization by inhabitants has been or can be seen as severely compromised he said adding that such a sin is a fifth category of crimes against peace which should be recognised as such by the international community. The pontiff said that such actions are usually caused by corporations and an elementary sense of justice would require that they be punished for them. An ecological sin is an action or omission against God against ones neighbour the community and the environment Francis said quoting the Fathers of the recently concluded Pan Amazon Regional Synod. It is a sin against future generations and is manifested in acts and habits of pollution and destruction of the harmony of the environment in transgressions against the principles of interdependence and in the breaking of networks of solidarity between creatures. Above and beyond its sinfulness failure to care for the environment is an injustice and a crime Francis suggested and should be legally enforced. I would like to appeal to all the leaders and actors in this area to contribute their efforts to ensuring adequate legal protection for our common home he said. The popes words coincided with the release of a new survey by the Pew Research Center which found that church going Americans accept their clergys on spiritual matters but generally distrust their advice on issues such as climate change. Pew found that 68 percent of U.S. adults who attend religious services at least a few times a year say they have a lot of confidence in the advice of their clergy on growing closer to God yet just a small fraction of this number 13 percent say they have this confidence when the topic is climate change. Pope Francis has thrown his moral weight behind the battle against anthropogenic climate change but has also acknowledged that the Church has no authority on scientific questions. In his 2015 encyclical letter on the environment Francis urging nations and individuals to exercise more responsible stewardship of the created world but insisted that he wanted to encourage debate rather than pronounce on environmental issues. On many concrete questions he wrote the Church has no reason to offer a definitive opinion she knows that honest debate must be encouraged among experts while respecting divergent views. Here I would state once more that the Church does not presume to settle scientific questions or to replace politics Francis said. But I am concerned to encourage an honest and open debate so that particular interests or ideologies will not prejudice the common good.	True	False	False	True	True
WASHINGTON The Democratic chairman of a key congressional panel Tuesday characterized the Trump administration's latest efforts to challenge the science behind climate change as dangerous. The comments by Rep. JosSerrano D N.Y. chairman of aHouse Appropriations subcommittee overseeing federal climate fundingcame amid news reports that White House officials are putting together a national security advisory panel aimed at countering the science behind human caused global warming. The panel's findings could give President Donald Trump who has challenged his own government's conclusions about the causes of and threats from climate change more ammunition to ignore it. Serrano who chairs the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce Justice Science and Related Agencies said that would be perilous. This unaccountable working group appears set to deliberately cherry pick data and science with the sole purpose of pushing back against the widely accepted science around climate change he said at a hearing Tuesday thatfeatured government scientists testifying on the crisis. This only serves to diminish the magnitude of this crisis and it is dangerous. Shortly after Serrano spoke Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer D N.Y. announced Senate Democrats are drafting legislation that would block the White House from creating the panel. This is maybe the most conspicuous symptom of a disease of climate denial that has infected the Republican Party and the hard right Schumer said ata Capitol Hill news conference. The science is largely settled on climate change and the threats it poses the panel. But the public relations war over how to address it is heating up as both sides navigate an issue expected to be a top issue in the 2020 election. Democrats who retook the House following the 2018 midterm election have been holding numerous hearings on the crisis. Republicans in turn have accused Democrats of trying to use climate change to impose a leftist agenda that would ruin the economy. In early Februaryprogressive Democrats unveiled their Green New Deal to remake the American economy into a social justice model focused on clean energy. But moderate Democrats have distanced themselves from the broadly worded plan that also calls for free housing health care and higher education for all Americans preferring only to endorse the portions that directly address climate change. Related 250 dead 91 billion in damages 2018 was a catastrophic year for U.S. weather 4th warmest for globe Related Green New Deal Why the GOP secretly likes Democrats' climate change plan Related Climate combat Democrats say Pentagon puts troops at risk by downplaying global warming Trump has touted environmental deregulation and his abandonment of Obama era steps to confront climate change as pillars of his America First economic agenda that has helped spur growth and lift the financial markets. But moderate Republicans are urging their party to stop challenging the science and starts confronting the problem of higher temperatures worsening natural disasters and rising sea levels. This is like a call to arms. Lets have conservatives have a discussion instead of being in denial that this is a problem former Ohio GOP Gov. John Kasich who ran against Trump in 2016 is expected to say at a speech Tuesday at the University of British Columbia. You cant just be a science denier. The White House would not confirm reports on the panel. Asked about the formation of the panel a National Security Council representative said the administration wants to ensure that decisions are fully informed and based on the most accurate and relevant information available. John Kerry who served as President Barack Obama's secretary of State wrote in a Washington Post column Tuesday that Trump should abandon the effort to discredit the science. As we careen toward irreversible environmental tipping points we have no time to waste debating alternative facts only to invest years more reestablishing trust in the real ones Kerry wrote. No panel 10 years from now can put the ice sheets back together or hold back rising tides. During Tuesday's hearingNASAEarth Science Division Director Michael Freilich was asked about the scientific integrity of the administration's most recent climate assessment released in November which White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders described as not based on facts. The report is a comprehensive scientificallyrigorouslyanalysisand assessmentif the availableinformationprimarily from the U.S. government Freilich said. We have made measurements of manyclimate indicators and many of the Earth's systems and it is clear that the climate is changing. David Doniger a climate change expert with the Natural Resources Defense Council said he was notworried about the administration's efforts to discredit the science given the preponderance of evidence. It just seems so late in the day he said. It's no longer a future hypothetical it's real. And to think that you're going to be able to stave offpublic concerns and public demand for action by ... writing a denial report seems too late.	True	True	True	True	True
HAZARD Ky. The head of the Environmental Protection Agency said Monday that he will sign a new rule overriding the Clean Power Plan an Obama era effort to limit carbon emissions from coal fired power plants. The war on coal is over EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt declared in the coal mining state of Kentucky. For Pruitt getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma. Pruitt was among about two dozen attorney generals who sued to stop President Barack Obamas push to limit carbon emissions. Closely tied to the oil and gas industry in his home state Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man man emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change. President Donald Trump who appointed Pruitt and shares his skepticism of established climate science promised to kill the Clean Power Plan during the 2016 campaign as part of his broader pledge to revive the nations struggling coal mines. In his order Tuesday Pruitt is expected to declare that the Obama era rule exceeded federal law by setting emissions standards that power plants could not reasonably meet. Appearing at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Pruitt said The EPA and no federal agency should ever use its authority to say to you we are going to declare war on any sector of our economy. Obamas plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. The rule dictated specific emission targets for states based on power plant emissions and gave officials broad latitude to decide how to achieve reductions. The Supreme Court put the plan on hold last year following legal challenges by industry and coal friendly states. Even so the plan helped drive a recent wave of retirements of coal fired plants which also are being squeezed by lower costs for natural gas and renewable power as well as state mandates promoting energy conservation. The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obamas legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants. The president announced earlier this year that he will pull the United States out of the landmark Paris climate agreement. Nearly 200 countries have committed to combat global warming by reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming. Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker contributed to this report from Washington.	True	False	False	True	True
He recently posed for a GQ magazine photo shoot with a fly fishing rod in front of snow capped Montana peaks. He rode a horse named Tonto down the National Mall to his first day of work at the Interior Department. And earlier this month he donned a National Park Service uniform to greet park goers at the entrance of the Grand Canyon. Montana born interior secretary Ryan Zinke who meets with President Trump on Friday morning meticulously crafts his image as wilderness loving western cowboy and sportsman. But nine months into his job at the Department of the Interior the federal agency that oversees most public lands and natural resources the act is wearing thin with environmentalists and outdoors enthusiasts who say his early moves demonstrate strong allegiance to the oil gas and other extractive industries seeking access to some of Americas most spectacular protected landscapes. He has reversed an Obama era ban on coal mining on public lands and proposed changes that would shrink the borders of four national monuments set aside by previous presidents. His agency has taken early steps to open the door to oil exploration in Alaskas Arctic National Wildlife Refuge one of the most symbolic and fiercely protected sites of the American environmental movement. Hes announced plans to repeal an important fracking safety rule and loosened safety guidelines for underwater drilling both major shifts away from Obama era environmental protection regulations. Earlier this week his agency set off a new firestorm of criticism by announcing that entrance fees for some of Americas most popular national parks will increase substantially next year. To make it cheaper for coal companies to strip mine in watersheds and make it more expensive for families to visit Yosemite is a perversion of American values said Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club. I think the secretary is a fraud. Meanwhile Zinke is also coming under scrutiny for other reasons including his use of private and military jets. According to Politico the secretary spent more than 12000 on a private jet to his home state of Montana and took a private plane to the US Virgin Islands. Zinke who declined to be interviewed for this story called the travel controversy a little BS in a public appearance. Most recently lawmakers from both parties in the mainland US and Puerto Rico have called for an investigation into how a tiny energy company in Zinkes hometown of Whitefish Montana won a major contract to rebuild power lines in hurricane ravaged Puerto Rico. The interior department has denied that Zinke played a role in the contract award. The interior department is in charge of the management and conservation of most federal lands and natural resources and it includes important divisions such as the National Park Service the Bureau of Land Management and the Bureau of Indian Affairs. As such the agency is often the arbiter between oil gas and mining companies seeking access to valuable resources embedded in public lands and environmentalists seeking to protect the same lands for biodiversity wildlife and recreation. Zinke has reshaped the department filling top political posts with former executives and lobbyist for the extractive industries. Deputy interior secretary David Bernhardt for example is a former lobbyist for the oil and gas industry. According to a report by the Western Values Project a progressive organization at least 21 of Zinkes political appointees have backgrounds tied to extractive industries. He sold himself as a Theodore Roosevelt Republican. That means wise use said Land Tawney president of Backcountry Hunters and Anglers a national conservation group headquartered in Montana. More and more sportsmen are waking up to whats going on. Since he took over the department Zinke has also resurrected an arcane military ritual requiring staff to hoist the department flag above the building whenever he enters. Zinke the son of a plumber and a realtor grew up in Whitefish a ski town of 4000 people in northwestern Montana. The6ft 4in secretary is a former high school and college football hero and a retired Navy Seal. Zinke made his name politically as a moderate Republican in Montanas legislature and easily won his first run for Congress in 2014 by a margin of 15 points. He repeated that success two years later despite questions about whether he actually lived in Montana and earlier suggestions that he failed to rise in the ranks of the Navy because of travel spending improprieties. Given his moderate politics in his home state many are scratching their heads over his hardline turn. Observers says hes not ideologically driven like Scott Pruitt the Environmental Protection Agency administrator who has set clear focused sights on dismantling environmental regulations in the United States for the benefit of industry. At his confirmation hearing Zinke said he was concerned about climate change and he regularly declares his love for public lands. Gloria Flora a former US Forest Service manager in Montana and prominent conservationist believes Zinke is fairly easy to explain in the context of political tribalism of the Trump era. Hes a Montanan. Hes on the Trump team. Hes doing Trump politics in every place but Montana she said. When its not personal then you revert to what your team has been saying and the values your team has. It is apparent Zinke wants to cultivate a folksy persona for the public but he doesnt want difficult interactions with that public. Earlier this month when he put on a park workers uniform to greet park goers at the entrance of the Grand Canyon a visitor questioned him on his proposal for national monuments. Zinke shut the man down with a smile and no answers. Whether the Trump administration succeeds in changing the shape of Americas public lands could depend on Zinke. For now his early moves and those potential changes appear to have galvanized a thriving opposition uncharmed by his cowboy style.	False	True	True	True	True
flickr Tim Evanson Good news these days is hard to find. So when a vote to overturn a relatively obscure rule governing oil and gas drilling on public lands failed green groups were understandably jubilant. Fifty one senators decided to put the best interests of taxpayers and the environment first and narrowly saved a rule to limit methane emissions. This means that instead of wasting hundreds of millions of dollars worth of natural gas methane is its primary component companies will capture and sell it. Because companies drilling on public land pay royalties on the oil and gas sold this means the public will receive tens of millions of dollars in revenue from gas thats currently burned or left to leak out and pollute the atmosphere. This means more money in our coffers and less greenhouse gas in our atmosphere. But lost in the post vote beltway analysis is the fact that this is also a big win for national security. While thats not the most apparent result of the vote its one that should resonate with the Republicans who otherwise champion the military but bristle at environmental protections. Thats because the rule puts otherwise wasted methane to use boosting our energy security and reducing our dependence on foreign sources of energy. Since natural gas is sold globally and Russia is a major exporter boosting US production like this rule does cuts into Russias share of the market. The more we produce the less our European allies have to rely on Russian gas for their power supply. By making our natural gas production more efficient this rule also lessens our reliance on even less friendly fossil fuel exporters including countries to which we all too often send American soldiers. By producing energy in the United States and limiting pollution were making the world safer. Natural gas is not exactly beloved by the environmental community but it can take much of the credit for reducing the use of coal which is much dirtier and more harmful. So while some may say that Obamas environmental rules constituted a War on Coal in reality it was the cheap and plentiful supply of natural gas that put coal out of business. Ultimately well need to transition from natural gas to renewable and zero carbon energies like solar wind and next generation nuclear power if we want to maintain low cost energy and a safe and secure climate. Even with protections in place gas remains a major source of greenhouse gas emissions which cause plenty of problems. As a just published report from the intelligence community details climate change is a major military issue acting as a threat multiplier which creates the conditions and food scarcity for example breed instability and conflict. Extreme weather events made worse by climate change disrupt local communities and weaken the civic institutions that act as a bulwark against terrorists and extremism. The report also notes that the ecological damage done by climate change has human impacts. Communities that could once comfortably live off the land are forced out of the fields and forests and into urban areas where tensions run high and food supplies low. No one is saying that reducing methane leaks from gas drilling will prevent the next major conflict or humanitarian crisis. But with a problem as big as climate change and as multifaceted as national security every step is worthwhile. The better we protect our environment the better we can protect people. Making sure companies capture and sell the gas drilled on public lands ensures that the American taxpayers get the biggest return possible for leasing that land. For anyone growing cynical watching beltway politics Wednesdays victory on the methane rule was a rare and welcome reminder that common sense can still win out over the deep pockets of the oil and gas lobby. The vote was a win for taxpayers a win for the environment a win for national security and a win for democracy.	True	False	False	True	False
The cruelty and the idiocy of Donald Trumps presidency does not chiefly lie in his tweets or even his words. Trump the performer is ridiculous but thats the clown show that keeps many of us either terrified or entertained the real harm is elsewhere away from the blaring headlines. Trump has been most destructive in his willingness to carry out an unabashedly rightwing policy agenda. Most Republicans competing for the nomination in 2016 embraced their partys total capitulation to the fossil fuel industry denying the existence of climate change and promising to shred Environmental Protection Agency EPA regulations. This is a central threat to Americas future a major powerful political party rejecting science itself. This week the Trump administration said it would weaken federal clean water rules epa proposes big changes to federal water protections designed to protect millions of acres of wetlands and thousands of miles of streams from pesticide runoff and other pollutants. This proposal would not just undo Obama era regulations but chip away at protections instituted under the late George HW Bush perhaps the last major Republican to pay even lip service to the environment. The Obama era rule was designed to limit pollution in about 60 of the nations bodies of water protecting sources of drinking water for about a third of the United States. Federal authority was extended to limit pollution in large bodies of waters and smaller bodies that drain into them like streams and wetlands. Rural landowners complained about the government regulating how much pollution from chemical fertilizers and pesticides could seep into water on their property. Real estate developers and owners of golf courses attacked the water regulations too and cheered the news that Trump a fan of both real estate development and golf was delivering on a campaign promise. The protection of our water they figure shouldnt interfere with business. Not only will it soon be easier for pollution to seep into our waterways if a developer finds a wetland is in the way of a money making opportunity the habitat can be paved over altogether. Wetlands adjacent to a major body of water will warrant federal protection. The rest are fair game. Environmentalists are rightfully horrified and fearful of whats to come. Its not just clean drinking water the Trump White House has disregarded. Proposals have circulated to weaken regulations on planet warming emissions from power plants oil rigs and cars. Trump is trying to speed new drilling at the Arctic national wildlife refuge. As climate change accelerates and the planet hurdles ever closer to an existential crisis Trump went to a United Nations conference to tout the benefits katowice climate talks cop24.html of fossil fuels. The current administrator of the EPA Andrew Wheeler used to spend his time lobbying against environmental regulations on behalf of coal magnate Robert E Murray. He was chief counsel to Senator James Inhofe of Oklahoma a proud denier of climate change. Democrats hoping Trump is impeached indicted or somehow toppled before 2020 should understand even such farfetched scenarios wont change the status quo. Trump has surrounded himself with people who care far more about the sanctity of fossil fuel profits than the safety of the American people. They worship at the altar of nihilistic capitalism. Mike Pence wont save you. For 2020 and beyond climate justice will have to become the most animating issue for Democrats not because its a winning argument though it is but because the future of the planet depends on it. This is why Alexandria Ocasio Cortez occupied ocasio cortez sunrise activists nancy pelosi Nancy Pelosis office to force support for a Green New Deal. We are left with no other alternatives. The job of the next president will be to undo the damage Trump has wrought. There will be much handwringing about the shattering of democratic norms but the real work will be in doing whatever we can in the little time we have to avert a true climate catastrophe. 	False	False	False	False	False
After Florida was hit by the devastating Hurricane Michael this week Sen. Marco Rubio R FL made it clear he would rather lie about climate change whichmakes these storms worse than commit to doing anything to stop it. On Sunday mornings edition of CNNs State of the Union host Jake Tapper pressed Rubio about the recent United Nations report on climate change which predicts global catastrophe if carbon emissions are not cut dramatically in the next 12 years. Do you believe climate change is at least in part man made? Tapper asked. Rubio said that while scientists agree that human behavior is contributing to climate change Icant tell you what percentage of that is due to human activity. He also claimed that many scientists would debate the percentage of what is attributable to man versus normal fluctuations. No matter what we do with laws lets say we went to all solar panels and did all that stuff which is not realistic this trend of sea level rise would still continue Rubio said. Instead of clean energy or reducing emissions Rubio said he is focused on strategies to mitigate those factors that are going be in place no matter what happens with our energy policy. But he added Im also not going to destroy our economy. Almost every word out of Rubios mouth was either a lie or a shameful dodge. There is overwhelming scientific consensusincluding from the United States government that human activity is the main driver of climate change. There is no debate among scientists about this. Human society is overwhelmingly responsible for our warming planet. Thats why it makes no sense to quibble as Rubio does about exactly what percentage of climate change is caused by humans. No matter what the answer is most or all of it. And contrary to Rubios assertions theUnited NationsIntergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC report says that drastic reductions in carbon emissions could in fact prevent the most catastrophic effects of climate change. The report says that in order to avoid irreversible global warming Global net human caused emissions of carbon dioxide CO2 would need to fall by about 45 percent from 2010 levels by 2030 reaching net zero around 2050. Reducing our carbon emissions will also reduce the effects of climate change. Its as simple as that. But Rubio apparently wants to throw up his hands and claim that since rising seas will drown Florida no matter what all we can really do is strengthen levies or lift up roads and buildings. Rubio also seems to think that reducing carbon emissions would do more to destroy our economy than say allowing 1 million Florida homes to flood by the end of this century. Unfortunately Republicans like Rubio have joined Trump in ignoring science and doing everything they can to keep pumping as much carbon into the atmosphere as they can get away with. Americans deserve leaders who will do everything they can to prevent the catastrophic effects of climate change instead of waffling and lying about it like Rubio. Published with permission of The American Independent.	True	False	False	True	True
But the Massachusetts senators campaign is ramping up its focus on the climate crisis ahead of Thursday nights debate in Los Angeles where wildfires forced more than 40000 to flee their homes less than two months ago. Last week Warren unveiled her Blue New Deal the first comprehensive campaign proposal to revitalize coastal economies by fortifying ports spurring new markets for seafood and completely overhauling the offshore energy industry. On Wednesday she published an op ed outlining how shed target fossil fuel companies and reverse President Donald Trumps assault on environmental regulations during her first 100 days in the White House. Then on Thursday the campaign announced an endorsement from Rhiana Gunn Wright the policy researcher who helped write the Green New Deal resolution Warren co sponsored in the Senate in February. There is no dealing with climate change unless we deal with corruption Gunn Wright said in a video set to be released Thursday afternoon. Every time I read a Warren climate plan I am confident that it can take us to a Green New Deal because I see her thinking about How do we use all the levers of government? The endorsement comes as Warren is sliding in national polls which commentators have largely attributed to her apparent wobbling on Medicare for All. The loss of her brief front runner status this fall is widely seen as aiding the surge of Sen. Bernie Sanders I Vt. on her left and South Bend Indiana Mayor Pete Buttigieg on her right. Yet Warrens shift on climate could position her to be more competitive against Sanders who has made his own push on the issue over the past month and picked up major endorsements from youth activists. Warren and Sanders have taken different approaches on climate. Warren has put out more than half a dozen individual plans to spend a combined 3 trillion on solving specific issues like spurring a green manufacturing boom and transitioning the military off fossil fuels. Sanders by contrast has released a 16.3 trillion megaproposal for a Green New Deal that includes everything from creating a public option for electricity to spending nearly 15 billion to encourage worker owned grocery stores. Yet Warren trails Sanders only slightly on climate according to green groups rankings. Greenpeace graded her an A and Sanders an A. On a scale of 200 the Sunrise Movement the group that pushed the Green New Deal into the mainstream scored Warren at 168 and Sanders at 183. 350 Action gave both candidates three thumbs up. Sanders has picked up endorsements from the teen led U.S. Youth Climate Strike and 18 year old activist Jamie Margolin. Hes also backed by Reps. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. and Ilhan Omar D Minn. the star first term Democrats who proposed the first two major pieces of Green New Deal legislation last month. Sanders sponsored the Senate version of Ocasio Cortezs Green New Deal for Public Housing bill last month. But the starkest contrast on the issue is between the two progressive contenders and their moderate rivals former Vice President Joe Biden and Buttigieg. Bidens campaign is stacked with gas industry allies. Buttigiegs climate adviser David Victor has been called a fossil fuel shill for taking research funding from an oil giant and deflecting blame from the industry. Its unclear how much average voters care about a candidates green credentials when the ability to defeat Trump who is widely criticized as a climate change denier is a foremost concern for Democrats and independents who lean left. Climate was the No. 2 concern after health care for Iowa caucusgoers in a Monmouth University survey from April. In California nearly half of Democratic primary voters said climate should be the top issue for the next president according to a Los Angeles Times poll published this month. The trend bears out nationally. About 38 of registered voters favored a Green New Deal proposal that spends upward of 10 trillion slashing climate changing emissions by 2030 according to an August nationwide survey commissioned by the left leaning think tank Data for Progress. That compared to 32.5 who preferred a 1.7 trillion plan to zero out emissions by 2050 more in line with what Biden proposed.	False	False	False	False	False
Washington Democratic Gov. Jay Inslee invoked former British Prime Minister Winston Churchill in announcing a legislation aimed at fighting global warming. There is no other option than victory because without victory there is not survival Inslee said at a press conference Monday. If that sounds apocalyptic then look at the science. Churchill gave similar remarks before British Parliament in May 1940 in the early days of World War II. Inslee and his allies cited the recent National Climate Assessment to back equating future global warming to Nazi Germany sweeping across Europe. Inslee who is a 2020 presidential contender is styling himself as a leader for Democrats agitating for action on global warming. Inslee is considering making global warming a central theme of his campaign should he seek the Democratic nomination in 2020. Inslees legislative pitch comes weeks after Washington voters rejected a ballot initiative to tax carbon dioxide emissions. The Inslee backed measure was defeated in an overwhelmingly Democratic state in November. Now Inslees back with an even more urgent message Adopt policies to tackle global warming or there is not survival. RELATED Congress Debates Whether More Tax Dollars Will Go Towards Add Ons For Luxury Electric Cars Inslees legislative proposal would force utilities to use 100 percent clean energy mandate more energy efficiency in buildings require a clean fuel standard and phase down hydrofluorocarbons HFCs in refrigerators and air conditioners. Those policies would cut Washington state greenhouse gases 25 percent below 1990 levels by 2035 according to Inslee. Washingtonians are ready to see their elected leaders step up to prevent further harm to our forests our air and our communities. These are enormous steps forward in our effort to save our state and our planet Inslee said. Washington already gets most of its electricity from clean energy being the largest state producer of hydroelectricity. The state also has existing laws mandating 15 percent of its electricity come from renewables like wind and solar. However Inslees critics point out that state green policies have raised energy prices including in Seattle where electricity prices have doubled since 2013. Costs have nearly doubled since 2013 Todd Myers environmental director at the Washington Policy Center tweeted Monday. Inslee also neglected to mention the most important aspect of climate policies their projected impact on future global warming. Thats probably because anything Washington state does will have no measurable impact on projected climate change. The governor also used alarming rhetoric when announcing carbon tax legislation earlier this year. We have just 59 days to do our part to save our children from an endless cycle of crop killing droughts one year and rivers spilling their banks the next Inslee tweeted in January. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	True	False
Editors note Radley Horton is a professor at Columbia Universitys Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory where he studies climate extremes impacts and adaptation. He spoke with NewsHour economics correspondent Paul Solman for Thursdays Making Sene segment on flood insurance. The following excerpt of their interview has been edited for length and clarity. Paul Solman How certain are we or can we be that these storms and the flooding associated with them is a function of climate change? Radley Horton There are many components to these storms. And depending on what part were talking about the certainty differs. There are some aspects that are really a sure thing. For example we know that sea levels are rising. We know thats going to continue. And even if storms dont change at all just by virtue of raising that baseline raising that floor were going to see more frequent and more severe coastal flooding. But when we look at some of the really fundamental aspects of a storm itself theres more uncertainty. The balance of evidence suggests that the strongest storms will become stronger with stronger winds more storm surge as the planet warms and as the upper oceans warm. But we cant say its a sure thing. PS What about the larger cycles of the planet? Dont they override or mightnt they override the kinds of things we as human beings are doing in the short term? RH There are many things that can impact the climate for sure. But right now during this era that were living in human activities and the burning of fossil fuels is by far the most powerful influence. Just since the start of the industrial revolution weve increased the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by about 40 percent. Its already caused sea levels to rise close to a foot in many places along the U.S. coast. So thats increasing the risk of these types of storms. WATCH Less than half of Florida homeowners have flood insurance PS Cant we mitigate the effects of flooding? I mean thats what theyre doing raising houses all over the coastline in the United States and countries like Holland. RH The types of mitigation efforts youre talking about are critical. This is what we often hear referred to as resilience or adapting to a changing climate. And that has to be a key component of all strategies. We absolutely do need to strengthen that infrastructure whether its elevating buildings green infrastructure that can capture some of these excess water. We need those strategies. But you start to wonder at what point have things changed too much for us to be able to adapt to? For example if you look at parts of South Florida as sea levels rise as the water table rises no matter how much money you put into trying to build sea walls that water is just going to make its way up like Swiss cheese through some of that limestone. You cant hold the water back. PS So what would you advise somebody who lives in a floodplain? Should they just get out? Because many cant economically right? Or do they jack up their houses? Is that the best approach? RH If you live in a flood zone certainly you should be thinking about climate change. Thats one of the dimensions. But there are a lot of other factors that impact vulnerability as well. When people were assessing the risk originally and defining the flood zones they made estimates based on 10 20 years of rainfall data. Thats an insufficiently long sample to really estimate the true one in a hundred year risk. Another concern is that since that home was built there may have been changes in development in surrounding areas. If you look at what happened in Houston recently so much of the natural area had been covered up with pavement. That changes the flood risk. But when it comes to the climate change piece and if were talking about homes that are in coastal zones sea level rise is a game changer. PS When the federal government redraws a map in a place like Pequannock New Jersey and includes more and more houses hundreds more houses in the floodplain is the government potentially overreacting? RH The government is trying to update using the latest available information. More years of weather data are now available and thereve been changes in the land use in some of these regions as well that impact the path that that water takes. PS Has flood insurance basically induced people to take risks that they shouldnt be taking? RH Quite possibly. Thats why we need a much deeper discussion both about those properties that currently are insured and about uninsured properties and about properties that as the climate changes are going to be moving into newly defined flood zones. In the future we could see property values fall not because water touches or doesnt touch some of these homes but because of systemic risk the inability of insurance to cover all these assets or investors finally realizing that a lot of critical infrastructure isnt going to be fundable.	True	True	False	True	True
PARRISH Ala. AP A stinking trainload of human waste from New York City is stranded in a tiny Alabama town spreading a stench like a giant backed up toilet and the poop train is just the latest example of the South being used as a dumping ground for other states waste. In Parrish Alabama population 982 the sludge hauling train cars have sat idle near the little league ball fields for more than two months Mayor Heather Hall said. The smell is unbearable especially around dusk after the atmosphere has become heated she said. Oh my goodness its just a nightmare here she said. It smells like rotting corpses or carcasses. It smells like death. All kinds of waste have been dumped in Georgia Alabama and other Southern states in recent years including toxic coal ash from power plants around the nation. In South Carolina a plan to store radioactive nuclear waste in a rural area prompted complaints that the state was being turned into a nuclear dump. In Parrish townspeople are considering rescheduling childrens softball games or playing at fields in other communities to escape the stink. Sherleen Pike who lives about a half mile from the railroad track said she sometimes dabs peppermint oil under her nose because the smell is so bad. Would New York City like for us to send all our poop up there forever? she said. They dont want to dump it in their rivers but I think each state should take care of their own waste. Alabamas inexpensive land and permissive zoning laws and a federal ban on dumping New Yorkers excrement in the ocean got the poop train chugging experts say. Nelson Brooke of the environmental group Black Warrior Riverkeeper describes Alabama as kind of an open door rubber stamp permitting place for landfill operators. Its easy for them to zip into a rural or poor community and set up shop and start making a ton of cash he said. The poop trains cargo is bound for the Big Sky landfill about 20 miles 30 kilometers east of Parrish. The landfill has been accepting the New York sewage sludge since early 2017. Previously it was transferred from trains to trucks in nearby West Jefferson but officials there obtained an injunction to keep the sludge out of their town. The sludge smells of dead rotting animals as well as human waste West Jeffersons attorney said in a lawsuit against Big Sky Environmental LLC. It also caused the community to become infested with flies the complaint states. After West Jefferson went to court the train stopped in late January in Parrish which lacks the zoning regulations to block the train cars. Its sat there ever since. Were probably going to look at creating some simple zoning laws for the town of Parrish so we can be sure something like this does not happen again the Parrish mayor said. Hall said shes optimistic the sludge will all be trucked to the landfill soon. New York City has discontinued shipping it to Alabama for the time being said Eric Timbers a city spokesman. Its waste recovered from the sewage treatment process and often called biosolids has been sent out of state partly because the federal government in the late 1980s banned disposal in the Atlantic Ocean. In an earlier trash saga a barge laden with 3186 tons 2890 metric tons of non toxic paper and commercial garbage from Long Island and New York City wandered the ocean for months in 1987 seeking a place to dump it after plans by a private developer to turn it into methane gas in North Carolina fell through. It was turned away by North Carolina Alabama Mississippi Louisiana Texas Florida Mexico Belize and the Bahamas. Brookes Black Warrior Riverkeeper group last year opposed continued permits for the Big Sky landfill. Rural parts of Alabama are prime targets for landfills that accept out of state waste it argued meaning that Alabama was becoming a dumping ground for the rest of the nation. Big Sky officials did not return multiple email and phone messages from The Associated Press seeking comment. Nationally the waste and recycling industry generates more than 93 billion in gross revenue annually said Brandon Wright a spokesman for the National Waste Recycling Association. Wright said there are many reasons waste is sometimes transported out of state. There might not be enough landfill space nearby and the waste has to go somewhere so it gets transported out of state he said. Alabama and other Southern states have a long history accepting waste from around the U.S. A former state attorney general once described a giant west Alabama landfill as Americas Pay Toilet. It was among the nations largest hazardous waste dumps when it opened in 1977. At its peak the landfill took in nearly 800000 tons 72570 metric tons of hazardous waste annually. Plans to dump coal ash in Southern states have been particularly contentious. Each year U.S. coal plants produce about 100 million tons 90 metric tons of coal ash and other waste more than 4 million tons of it wound up in an Alabama landfill following a 2008 spill in Tennessee. In Parrish the mayor hopes the material in the train cars is removed before the weather warms up. Were moving into the summer and the summer in the South is not forgiving when it comes to stuff like this she said.	False	False	False	True	False
The death toll in cyclone hit northern Mozambique has risen to 38 officials say as aid workers struggle to reach the worst affected areas. Cyclone Kenneth struck the southern African nation last week with winds of 220kmh 140mph flattening villages and damaging thousands more homes. The storm lost strength but torrential rain was still battering the area on Monday with more expected. As a result flights have been grounded hindering the aid effort. It is predicted the weather system will dump twice as much rainfall as Cyclone Idai which struck last month leaving more than 900 dead across Mozambique Malawi and Zimbabwe. The flood risk was compounded by Kenneth hitting at the end of the rainy season when river levels were already high the UN Office for the Co ordination of Humanitarian Affairs Ocha noted. Already Pemba the regional capital of Cabo Delgado state has experienced more than 2m 6.5ft of rain and flooding. According to Mozambique's National Institute of Disaster Management INGC 38 people have been killed by Cyclone Kenneth while another 35000 homes have been destroyed or damaged. The privately owned O Pais website reported five people died after part of a rubbish dump collapsed onto homes in Pemba on Sunday evening. It is unclear if these deaths are recorded in the government total. Ocha says humanitarian needs have sky rocketed and the humanitarian response will need to rapidly scale up. Some 200000 people are in danger in Pemba alone Ocha warned. Spokesman Saviano Abreu added that the situation in the northern towns of Macomia and Quissanga was critical while there were also worries for the cut off island of Ibo. But attempts to reach those areas had not been entirely successful. We managed to send one flight with World Food Programme WFP supplies of rice and biscuits and some non food items Mr Abreu told news agency AFP. But unfortunately the weather conditions are changing too fast and threatening the operation. It's raining again and the second flight couldn't go. This satellite image shows the cyclone over northern Mozambique and Tanzania on Friday night. On Sunday a spokesman for UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said he was appealing for additional resources from the international community to fund the response in the immediate medium and longer term. Tropical cyclones in this part of the Indian Ocean are not that rare. However according to the BBC's Environment Correspondent Matt McGrath Cyclone Idai was the seventh such major storm of the Indian Ocean season when it struck back in March. That is more than double the average for the time of year. What's even more unusual however is the fact Idai and Kenneth hit in such quick succession. According to the World Meteorological Organization WMO there is no record of two storms of such intensity striking Mozambique in the same season. It is especially unusual in the context of the trend which has seen tropical cyclones in the region decrease slightly over the past seven decades. But it is far too early and too small a sample size to say whether this frequency is a direct result of climate change. Instead experts point to other elements making the storm's impact worse which they know are related to climate change. There is absolutely no doubt that when there is a tropical cyclone like this then because of climate change the rainfall intensities are higher Dr Friederike Otto from the University of Oxford told the BBC in the aftermath of Cyclone Idai. And also because of sea level rise the resulting flooding is more intense than it would be without human induced climate change. Cabo Delgado province is not as densely populated as the area hit by Cyclone Idai and there is apparently more high ground there. That in addition to warnings by authorities ahead of the storm could significantly stem losses compared with Cyclone Idai. But reports said many thousands of homes had been flattened by the winds and the area has been hit by militant Islamist violence in recent months which could complicate humanitarian operations. Thousands of people had already fled their homes to seek shelter from violence in camps for displaced people.	False	False	False	True	False
Here's the issue Pruitt told CNN in a phone interview. To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced. He continued What we need to focus on is access to clean water addressing these areas of superfund activities that may cause an attack on water these issues of access to fuel. ... Those are things so important to citizens of Florida right now and to discuss the cause and effect of these storms there's the... place and time to do that it's not now. President Donald Trump has previously called climate change a hoax and Pruitt has led a push to roll back EPA regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions. Hurricane Irma is hammering a string of northeast Caribbean islands and making its way toward a possible hit on Florida over the weekend. As the Category 5 storm heads toward the Florida coast experts have been clear about how global warming has contributed to the increased strength of hurricanes this season. Gradually warming temperatures in the Gulf of Mexico as much as 2 degrees Celsius above average could be a pressure cooker for key ingredients of a hurricane extreme winds rainfall and storm surge. Pruitt said that it's up to Congress to eventually address the issue but right now the EPA's focus is on providing assistance to those in need in Florida. Congress should address that at some point. And Congress hasn't he said. All I'm saying to you is to use time and effort to address it at this point is very very insensitive to this people in Florida. Pruitt said that the EPA is putting extra attention into monitoring 80 toxic waste sites otherwise known as superfund sites in the case that they affect the water in Florida. As waters recede in Houston attention turns to chemical facilities There's a multitude of these kinds of sites he said. We are working in advance with the owners of those sites to secure those sites ... to prevent leakage andor harm to citizens in the area. Pruitt also said that to speed up the delivery of fuel and other critical supplies he rescinded all weight and driver restrictions on its highways. Florida has also tried to improve gasoline supplies by getting an EPA waiver for certain regulations that would normally restrict the kind of fuels it can use. He added he's embedded staff in towns and cities in Florida so that they can make real time decisions for the hurricane. My focus has to be on ... these areas that I described he said. And with all respect really that's where I have to focus on. After Harvey 'we have to protect ourselves' After Harvey 'we have to protect ourselves'	True	True	True	True	False
President Trump Donald John TrumpJoe Kennedy says he's considering Senate run Biden tells supporters after flub 'I'm not going nuts' Seoul's relations with Pyongyang and Tokyo need a jolt of reality MORE on Monday touted his environmentalist credentials hours after skipping a Group of Seven G 7 summit meeting focused on climate oceans and biodiversity. At a closing press conference before departing the summit Trump was asked whether he still harbors skepticism about climate change. He did not directly answersaying heis an environmentalist but that he is unwilling to sacrifice the country's economic success to protect the environment. Im an environmentalist. A lot of people dont understand that Trump said citing his experience filing environmental impact statements for real estate developments. I think I know more about the environment than most people he added. I want clean air. I want clean water. I want a wealthy country. I want a spectacular country with jobs with pensions with so many things. And thats what were getting. At the same time its very important to me... we have to maintain this incredible place that weve all built Trump continued. The U.S. has become a much richer country. And thats a good thing not a bad thing. Because that wealth allows us to take care of people. Earlier Monday the president skipped a G 7 session focused on climate and sent another administration official in his place. The heads of government of the other six nations that comprise the G 7 were there. During the climate meeting leaders approved a 20 million aid package to help Brazil and other South American countries address fires engulfing the Amazon rainforest French President Emmanuel Macron Emmanuel Jean Michel MacronTrump says he's 'an environmentalist' after skipping G 7 climate meeting Trump says he'd meet with Iranians under 'right' circumstances Macron US France reached 'very good agreement' on digital tax MORE said. Trump has in the past characterized climate change as a hoax mocked the idea of global warming by citing winter storms and cast doubt on government reports warning about how the changing environment might adversely affect the economy. His administration has rolled backa number of environmental protections enacted by the Obama administration and Trump announced shortly after taking office that he would withdraw from the Paris climate agreement that seeks to combat global emissions. The president on Monday cited the expansion of energy exports under his administration and the opening of drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as ways he has made the country more prosperous. Im not going to lose that wealth he said. I'm not going to lose that on dreams. On windmills.	True	True	False	True	True
Conservation groups are protesting efforts to build a small offshore wind farm off the coast of Lake Erie arguing that the project poses a grave risk to the local bird population. A local energy company wants to construct a six turbine 20.7 megawatt offshore wind development eight miles from Cleveland in Lake Erie. If completed it would be the first freshwater offshore wind farm on the continent. Supporters point outthe project would create more than 500 jobs and pump millions into the local economy over the turbines 25 year lifespan. Lake Erie Energy Development Corporation the company behind the project also argues it would be a step forward for environmentally friendly energy production. However not every ecologically minded group is on board with Icebreaker the name of the project. The Black Swamp Bird Observatory and the American Bird Conservancy two different bird conservation groups are opposed to the proposal claiming the turbines would harm the local bird population and that major errors were made during an environmental assessment. RELATEDDisposal Of Wind Turbines Proving To Be A Major Environmental Concern We reject the environmental assessments claim that this wind energy facility would have little to no impact' on birds Kimberly Kaufman Black Swamp Bird Observatorys executive director said in a statement. The six turbine Icebreaker project poses a larger threat to wildlife than is now indicated in the documents Kaufman continued. But the planned expansion of offshore wind energy to over 1000 turbines will have even more major impacts to birds that breed and migrate across Lake Erie and that must be addressed. The bird conservancy groups point out that vast numbers of migratory birds and bats have been recorded just a few miles from the Great Lakes shorelines with many flying at the same level of the rotor swept area of windmills. They submitted their concerns to theU.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of Energy. A second public hearing about Icebreaker will take place Thursday atCleveland City Council. This is far from the first time bird advocates have lamented over wind turbines. Wind farms across the globe kill thousands of birds a year that inadvertently fly into their turbines. Offshore wind farms while also posing a threat to birds can also harm the local aquatic ecosystem. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	True	True
A total of 10 US national monuments are in the Trump administrations sights to be either resized or repurposed in order to allow activities such as mining logging and grazing within their borders. Environmental groups have vowed legal action to stymie any alterations to the protected areas. Here are the 10 national monuments identified for change by Ryan Zinke the secretary of the interior. Designated in December 2016 by Barack Obama Bears Ears national monument is a 1.35m acre expanse of mesas buttes and Native American archaeological sites that sprawls across south eastern Utah. Its many splendors include a series of stunning rock bridges as well as the aptly named Grand Gulch an intricate canyon system thick with thousand year old ruins. A whopping 1.9m acres south central Utahs Grand Staircase Escalante was set aside by Bill Clinton in 1996 and is the largest terrestrial national monument in the US. It contains a series of gigantic plateaus and cliffs the Grand Staircase as well as a string of deep gorges known as the Escalante River Canyons. The first national monument established solely to protect its rich biodiversity Clinton deemed the Cascade Siskiyou an ecological wonderland when he protected it at about 52000 acres in 2000. In his final week in office Obama responded to calls from local conservationists and scientists and expanded the monument adding approximately 48000 acres. Covering nearly 300000 acres of remote desert north east of Las Vegas the Gold Butte monument was created by Obama in December 2016. Its chiseled red sandstone towers canyons and mountains contain a treasure trove of rock art and are an important habitat for species such as the Mojave desert tortoise bighorn sheep and the mountain lion. Roxanne Quimby co founder of Burts Bees cosmetics and her foundation purchased tracts of land in the northern reaches of Maine with the purpose of creating a national park. When this plan was opposed by various state and federal politicians Obama stepped in to create a 87000 acre national monument dominated by mountains and lush forests. Another Obama creation the marine monument was designated in September 2016 and sits off the New England coast. The area was protected to safeguard an ecosystem of deep sea corals three species of whale and an endangered species of sea turtle the Kemps ridley. A huge monument spanning nearly 500000 acres and proclaimed in May 2014. There are several hundred known archaeological sites in this mountainous stretch of New Mexico including some of the earliest known native American settlements. In the 1960s US astronauts used the area to train for lunar missions. Declared by President George W Bush in 2009 and expanded by Obama in 2014 the monument covers 480000 square miles in marine areas to the south and west of Hawaii. The scattered reserve contains rare birds trees and grasses as well as largely untouched coral reefs. Found at an average elevation of 7000ft this New Mexico monument was created in 2013. The area is riddled with volcanic cones with the Rio Grande flowing through an 800ft gorge in the layers of volcanic basalt flows and ash. The monument has several archaeological sites and is considered a key wildlife corridor for migrating animals. The enormous 8.5m acre monument in the south Pacific was declared by Bush in January 2009. Rare petrels shearwaters and terns are found there as well as giant clams reef sharks and rose coloured corals. It is considered by the Fish Wildlife Service as the most important seabird habitat in the region.	True	True	False	True	True
As soon as Hurricanes Harvey and Irma made landfall in the U.S. scientists politicians and journalists began to discuss the role of climate change in natural disasters. Although a clear scientific consensus has emerged over the past decade that climate change influences hurricanes in the long run its effect upon any individual storm is unclear. Anyone trying to score political points after a natural disaster should take a deep breath and review the science first. As a meteorologist with access to the best weather forecast model data available I watched each hurricanes landfall with particular interest. Harvey and Irma broke the record 12 year major hurricane landfall drought on the U.S. coastline. Since Wilma in October 2005 31 major hurricanes had swirled in the North Atlantic but all failed to reach the U.S. with a Category 3 or higher intensity. Even as we worked to divine exactly where the hurricanes would land a media narrative began to form linking the devastating storms to climate change. Some found it ironic that states represented by climate deniers were being pummeled by hurricanes. Alarmists reveled in the irony that Houston home to petrochemical plants was flooded by Harvey while others gleefully reported that President Trumps Mar a Lago might be inundated by Irma. How to put these two hurricanes into proper context? An informative website from the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration synthesizes reams of research literature on the links between hurricanes and global warming. Over the next century climate models generally indicate fewer but stronger stormsbetween 2 and 11 greater average storm intensitywith substantially increased rain rates. Against the background of slow sea level rise explosive coastal population growth will overwhelmingly exacerbate any hurricanes damages. In the aggregate the global warming signal may just now be emerging out of our noisy observational records and we may not know certainly for several decades. These conclusions are hardly controversial in the climate science community. My own research cited in a recent Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report found that during the past half century tropical storms and hurricanes have not shown an upward trend in frequency or accumulated energy. Instead they remain naturally variable from year to year. The global prevalence of the most intense storms Category 4 and 5 has not shown a significant upward trend either. Historical observations of extreme cyclones in the 1980s especially in the Southern Hemisphere are in sore need of reanalysis. By focusing on whether climate change caused a hurricane journalists fail to appreciate the complexity of extreme weather events. While most details are still hazy with the best climate modeling tools the bigger issue than global warming is that more people are choosing to live in coastal areas where hurricanes certainly will be most destructive. The nascent field of attribution science attempts to explain how climate change may affect characteristics of a given hurricane using models in what if mode. Such research requires a faithful reproduction of events and predictions of the future constrained by subjective choices within computer models. This research also takes timewhich means other scientists must examine the evidence with patience and judiciousness not usually seen on Twitter or cable news. Still the scientific community already knows plenty about hurricanes and climate changeknowledge it has accumulated over two decades through peer reviewed research academic conferences and voluminous national and international assessments. Yet climate scientists all too often speculate during interviews rather than refer to IPCC reports or their cousins from the U.S. National Climate Assessment. Some climate scientists have peddled tenuous theories with no contemporaneous research evidence. Advocacy groups package these talking points for easy consumption by journalists who eagerly repeat them. The historical record books contain dozens of devastating hurricane landfalls over the past century any of which if repeated would be catastrophic regardless of additional climate change effects. To prepare for the next hurricane the U.S. needs the best weather forecasts evacuation plans and leadership. These plans should be built on sound science not speculation overselling or exaggeration. Hurricane science in this political climate already has enough spin. Mr. Maue a research meteorologist is an adjunct scholar at the Cato Institute.	True	False	False	True	True
President Donald Trump blamed bad environmental laws for making wildfires spreading across California much worse in a Sunday tweet. Trump wrote these laws arent allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized which is instead being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire spreading! Persistent heat dry condition and winds have fueled several major wildfires across California the biggest of which is the Carr Fire thats scorched more than 140000 acres and killed seven people. RELATED NYT Claims Global Greening From CO2 Is Terrible Gets Owned State officials said the Carr Fire was sparked in late July by a flat tire on a trailer scraping against the asphalt on a road near Redding California. California Gov. Jerry Brown a Democrat blamed man made global warming for the states rash of intense fires in the last couple of years however wildfire experts and conservatives tend to blame poor land management policies coupled with the expansion of human development into fire prone areas. Thats likely what Trump is referring to when he tweeted must also tree clear to stop fire spreading! Thinning of trees and removing of dead vegetation and brush can help mitigate wildfires. Whats not a clear link to wildfires however is Trumps referral to California water supplies being diverted into the ocean. Hes likely referring to the diverting of water from the Sacramento San Joaquin River Delta into the ocean to protect the delta smelt an endangered fish. Republicans and farmers have complained about management of the smelt population for years because precious water was being pumped out to sea instead of going towards other uses including agriculture. Those concerns were magnified during the recent multi year drought and recent population surveys show fresh water diversion has not been enough to keep smelt populations from declining. However its unclear how diverting water into the Pacific Ocean affects wildfires in California. Trump also lambasted policies forcing river water to be diverted during the 2016 campaign. Is there a drought? Trump said at a rally in Fresno that year. No we have plenty of water adding we shove it out to sea. Trump approved disaster declarations for the Carr Fire making it easier for state and federal officials to share resources and coordinate a response.	True	True	False	False	False
U.S. President Donald Trump displays an Executive Order on Offshore Energy Strategy at the White House in Washington U.S. April 28 2017. Photo Kevin LamarqueReuters On the eve of his 100th day in the White House President Trump signed an executive order Friday intended to let energy companies drill for oil in currently protected areas of the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans. The move was swiftly condemned by environmentalists but Trump hailed it as a victory for the economy. This is a great day for American workers and families. And today were unleashing American energy and clearing the way for thousands and thousands of high paying American energy jobs Trump said before signing the order. So far Trumps energy policies have aimed at reversing the plentiful environmental protections established by his predecessor former President Barack Obama. In the Roosevelt Room of the White House Trump said the United States is blessed with wonderful natural resources including offshore oil and natural gas reserves which can be harnessed to stimulate energy production and job growth. He said the federal government has closed off 94 percent of these offshore areas preventing potential energy production. And when they say closed they mean closed. This deprives our country of potentially thousands and thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in wealth. I pledged to take action and today I am keeping that promise he said. Trumps signing of the America First Offshore Energy Strategy comes a day before the Peoples Climate March an international protest against Trumps energy and environmental policies. The flagship march in Washington D.C. and the more than 300 affiliated marchers across the globe are expected to draw thousands. Though similar to last weeks March for Science the march on Saturday will focus on Trumps efforts to remove regulations intended to protect the environment and curb climate change rather than scientific integrity. According to Trump the new executive order begins the process of opening many offshore areas to job creating energy exploration and rescinds the Obama administrations permanent protection of the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans. A month before leaving office Obama banned offshore drilling in nearly all of the Arctic under U.S. control to protect marine life and prevent potential oil spills. He also declared portions of the Atlantic Ocean unsuitable for drilling. Obama relied upon a little known 1953 law that allows the president to ban oil and gas drilling indefinitely in U.S. waters. At the time an Obama administration official suggested that Trump would not be able to reverse the ban without an act from Congress because of its strong legal basis. On Thursday night Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke briefed the press on the contents of the executive order. He said it would direct the Interior and Commerce Departments to review offshore drilling and gas regulations in protected areas. As expected the response to Trumps executive order from the environmental community was swift and harsh. Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club released a statement saying that millions of Americans concerned about the dangers of offshore drilling will not be drowned out regardless of the oil lobbys influence over Trump. Just as he has throughout his 99 days in office Donald Trump will fail in this attempt to destroy our beaches and coastal communities. The people have been heard and will continue to be heard Brune said. Greenpeace USAs senior climate and energy campaigner Diana Best also released a statement condemning Trumps executive order. She said that renewable energy has already set the U.S. on course for energy independence and that offshore oil and gas drilling will condemn the nation to decades more of pollution. This executive order from the Trump administration is just the latest in a series of attempted rollbacks that most people in this country do not want and only come at the behest of Trumps inner circle of desperate fossil fuel executives Best said. Holing up at Mar a lago may protect Trump from an oil spill but it will not protect him and his cabinet of onepercenters from the millions of people in this country from California to North Carolina who will resist his disastrous policies.	True	False	False	True	True
WASHINGTON The Republican response to an alarming new United Nations report on looming catastrophes caused by global warming suggests that little if anything will be done by the U.S. in the near future to address the threat of rising oceans worsening droughts and raging wildfires. They might as well be calling on me to sprout wings and fly to Canada for the summer Sen. Roger Wicker R Miss. a climate change skeptic said of the actions urged by the report. Issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change the report found that the world is rapidly running out of time to scale back carbon emissions to keep planetary warming within 1.5 degrees Celsius 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit above pre industrial levels. If the flow of greenhouse gases continues to stream into the atmosphere at the current rate the IPCC determined the global mean temperature will likely rise to the 1.5 degree mark sometime between 2030 and 2052. Such a rise in global mean temperatures within that time frame would mean calamitous flooding of small islands and major coastal metropolises like New York City the report said. Warming beyond that level to 2 degrees and over would significantly exacerbate such disasters. The reports authors projected that staying at or below 1.5 degrees Celsius will require slashing the worlds greenhouse gas emissions by 45 percent from 2010 levels by 2030 and reaching net zero carbon emissions by 2050 targets that many GOP lawmakers brushed off as infeasible. Theres not enough money in the world to pay for that Kennedy said. Thats the problem with the U.N. that they come up with these policy ideas that are just La La Land. How is that new? Theyve said the same thing before Sen. Marco Rubio R Fla. said adding that his responsibility was to balance those interests raised in that report with his states broader economic and security interests. It hasnt been on my finance agenda or banking agenda Scott said referring to the Senate committees he serves on and the issues on which he focuses his attention. The IPCC recommended several steps needed to reverse carbon dioxide emissions including replacing the use of fossil fuels with renewable energy such as wind and solar as well as growing more forests which naturally recycles CO2. It also said that employing new technologies to suck carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere will be necessary to achieve the emissions target. We should be doing everything we can said Natalie Mahowald a climate scientist at Cornell University and lead author of the reports first chapter. Thats the main thing about getting to the emmissions goal is just how aggressively we have to act in every different sector of our society. Only one GOP senator approached by HuffPost signaled an openness to delving into the report Sen. Bob Corker R Tenn.. As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee he said he was looking at the possibility of holding a hearing on the matter. The Senate GOP majority likely to remain in effect after Novembers elections is dominated by lawmakers skeptical of human caused climate change such as Jim Inhofe R Okla.. He oncethrew a snowball on the Senate floor in an attempt to prove that global warming is nothing more than a hoax. Coming from a top oil producing stateInhofe has long railed against the IPCC as a biased left wing organization. On Wednesday he claimed that the panel recognized by others as the worlds leading authority on climate change had been totally discredited and dismissed its latest findings.	True	False	False	True	True
Scientists have uncovered the largest volcanic region on Earth two kilometres below the surface of the vast ice sheet that covers west Antarctica. The project by Edinburgh University researchers has revealed almost 100 volcanoes with the highest as tall as the Eiger which stands at almost 4000 metres in Switzerland. Geologists say this huge region is likely to dwarf that of east Africas volcanic ridge currently rated the densest concentration of volcanoes in the world. And the activity of this range could have worrying consequences they have warned. If one of these volcanoes were to erupt it could further destabilise west Antarcticas ice sheets said glacier expert Robert Bingham one of the papers authors. Anything that causes the melting of ice which an eruption certainly would is likely to speed up the flow of ice into the sea. The big question is how active are these volcanoes? That is something we need to determine as quickly as possible. The Edinburgh volcano survey reported in the Geological Societys special publications series involved studying the underside of the west Antarctica ice sheet for hidden peaks of basalt rock similar to those produced by the regions other volcanoes. Their tips actually lie above the ice and have been spotted by polar explorers over the past century. But how many lie below the ice? This question was originally asked by the teams youngest member Max Van Wyk de Vries an undergraduate at the universitys school of geosciences and a self confessed volcano fanatic. He set up the project with the help of Bingham. Their study involved analysing measurements made by previous surveys which involved the use of ice penetrating radar carried either by planes or land vehicles to survey strips of the west Antarctic ice. The results were then compared with satellite and database records and geological information from other aerial surveys. Essentially we were looking for evidence of volcanic cones sticking up into the ice Bingham said. After the team had collated the results it reported a staggering 91 previously unknown volcanoes adding to the 47 others that had been discovered over the previous century of exploring the region. These newly discovered volcanoes range in height from 100 to 3850 metres. All are covered in ice which sometimes lies in layers that are more than 4km thick in the region. These active peaks are concentrated in a region known as the west Antarctic rift system which stretches 3500km from Antarcticas Ross ice shelf to the Antarctic peninsula. We were amazed Bingham said. We had not expected to find anything like that number. We have almost trebled the number of volcanoes known to exist in west Antarctica. We also suspect there are even more on the bed of the sea that lies under the Ross ice shelf so that I think it is very likely this region will turn out to be the densest region of volcanoes in the world greater even than east Africa where mounts Nyiragongo Kilimanjaro Longonot and all the other active volcanoes are concentrated. The discovery is particularly important because the activity of these volcanoes could have crucial implications for the rest of the planet. If one erupts it could further destabilise some of the regions ice sheets which have already been affected by global warming. Meltwater outflows into the Antarctic ocean could trigger sea level rises. We just dont know about how active these volcanoes have been in the past Bingham said. However he pointed to one alarming trend The most volcanism that is going in the world at present is in regions that have only recently lost their glacier covering after the end of the last ice age. These places include Iceland and Alaska. Theory suggests that this is occurring because without ice sheets on top of them there is a release of pressure on the regions volcanoes and they become more active. And this could happen in west Antarctica where significant warming in the region caused by climate change has begun to affect its ice sheets. If they are reduced significantly this could release pressure on the volcanoes that lie below and lead to eruptions that could further destabilise the ice sheets and enhance sea level rises that are already affecting our oceans. It is something we will have to watch closely Bingham said.	True	False	False	True	True
Reuters U.S. presidential candidate Beto ORourke on Monday laid out one of the most detailed climate policies so far in the crowded Democratic field calling for a 5 trillion investment in clean energy technology and infrastructure over 10 years with a goal of reaching net zero emissions by 2050. ORourke the former Texas congressman made climate change the focus of his first major policy announcement unveiling the plan ahead of a campaign stop meeting with scientists at the iconic Yosemite National Park in California. The greatest threat we face which will test our country our democracy every single one of us is climate change ORourke said in a statement. The plan lays out a series of executive actions that would reverse the energy dominance policies of President Donald Trump who has been rolling back environmental regulation to increase domestic fossil fuels production. ORourkes measures include U.S. re entry into the Paris Climate Agreement ordering a reduction in methane emissions from oil and gas operations halting new drilling leases on federal land and restoring pollution standards for power plants. His plan also calls for raising taxes on the wealthy and on corporations to help fund some 5 trillion in projects to modernize infrastructure and clean energy technology over a decade. The net zero goal in ORourkes and other climate plans means reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions 100 percent or offsetting them by as much as is emitted. The bill will be funded with the revenues generated by structural changes to the tax code that ensure corporations and the wealthiest among us pay their fair share and that we finally end the tens of billions of dollars of tax breaks currently given to fossil fuel companies ORourkes legislative proposal states. The plan appears to align with some of the principles of the Green New Deal a bold set of policy goals introduced by congressional Democrats that would transform the U.S. energy economy to 100 percent renewable sources by 2030 using federal funds to invest in modern infrastructure and green job programs. Most of the Democratic presidential candidates including Bernie Sanders Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren have embraced the Green New Deal which has become a focus of attacks by the Republican party which calls it unfeasible. Other candidates have announced some specific policy measures related to climate change and the environment in recent weeks and Warren has unveiled a public lands policy that would ban new drilling and mining leases on federal lands. Environmental group the League of Conservation Voters on Monday praised ORourkes plan saying that it offered the kind of leadership we need from the next president. Still the upstart Sunrise Movement the youth led group that has pushed the Green New Deal into the spotlight said ORourkes plan fell short of what they said scientists said was necessary to fend off the worst impacts of climate change. The Green New Deal calls for achieving net zero emissions within a decade not by mid century as ORourkes plan sets out. Beto claims to support the Green New Deal but his plan is out of line with the timeline it lays out and the scale of action that scientists say is necessary to take here in the United States to give our generation a livable future said Sunrise founder Varshini Prakash.	True	False	False	True	True
California continues to pass the most ambitious laws in the world to expand clean energy and combat climate change. This summer in the midst of unprecedented chaos and dysfunction in Washington California lawmakers stepped up with a bipartisan solution to one of the most pressing challenges facing our state this nation and the world. Cap and trade is an important tool in Californias climate policy portfolio. It sends a price signal to industries to reduce their carbon pollution while generating billions of dollars in revenue for investments in clean transportation and direct pollution reduction. However its hardly the only weapon in our climate arsenal and California simply cannot meet our world leading greenhouse gas reduction goals with cap and trade alone. In fact the challenge before us is a case study in market failures to suggest that market based policies on their own will solve this existential challenge is nave at best. Thats why Californias comprehensive suite of climate policies including our mandates to generate clean energy improve energy efficiency and reduce vehicle tailpipe emissions strikes a necessary balance between market based and direct regulations. As California edges out the United Kingdom to become the fifth largest economy in the world with the state unemployment rate at historic lows sound budgeting and a robust social safety net weve proven that strong climate and clean air policies can go hand in hand with economic growth. Thanks to policies mandating clean energy development Californias electric grid is one of the least carbon intensive in the world. Weve turned clean energy into a pillar of our economy that now employs over half a million Californians ten times the number of Americans employed in the coal industry. Clean renewable energy is also now cheaper than fossil fuels on a straight dollar for dollar basis in many parts of America. Thats why red states like Texas Oklahoma and Iowa are quietly spending more on zero carbon wind energy than ever before. Clean energy isnt just good for the planet its good for consumers monthly utility bills and for the economy. Setting a target of 100 percent clean renewable energy as my Senate Bill 100 will do if signed into law means that California will continue to be the worlds clean energy superpower. Other policies promoting energy and fuel efficiency are also major tools driving both innovation and pollution reductions. Our decades long commitment to energy efficiency which began with Jerry Browns first stint as Governor has not only kept our states electricity consumption flat despite a steadily rising population it has kept Californians energy spending among the lowest in the nation. These programs create local jobs incentivize massive private sector investment and are a big reason why California remains Americas capital of innovation. Most importantly policies that directly reduce pollution are our most effective tools to improve public health and quality of life in the most disproportionately impacted communities. California is home to six of the ten most polluted cities in America for ozone and particle pollution according to the American Lung Association. The families sick from breathing dirty air surely would not consider Californias air quality regulations superfluous. We need all of these tools to be able to reduce pollution drive technological innovation create jobs and expand economic growth all while keeping costs stable for consumers and businesses. Taken together they provide a comprehensive platform for clean energy and climate policy that can serve as a golden standard and a beacon of hope for the rest of the planet until common sense returns to the White House.	False	False	False	True	True
Bill Nye took on Republican Rep. Thomas Massey who claims to be an electrical engineer but he doesnt understand climate change. And the guy that I saw the other day if I may take a moment was congressman Thomas Massey from Kentucky and he is an electrical engineer. He says on his website he claims to be an inventor and he acted as though he cannot grasp this he focused on the idea that 800000 years ago there was a higher level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere than there is today and how do we know that? By looking at the ice cores or the ancient atmospheres in the ancient ice. I presume you dont watch MSNBCA member of his staff might. Thats what Im hoping for. Im hoping for. So congressman or the congressmans staff heres the hockey stick graph that you guys love to go off thats been debunked. No it hasnt been debunked. Its a fact. If youre really an electrical engineer heres the problem. The rate of global warming if it was even detectable at this scale with about .1 degrees celsius every thousand or maybe even every 10000 years. Now its that .1 degree Celsius every decade. So congressman its like this in calculus terms. The rate of temperature getting bigger is very high. This would be dT dt where capital T is temperature and and the lower case is time or congressmans staff if out there thats the problem. This looks like an exaggerated hockey stick because it is. Its the speed. The Trump administration recently called a science a Democrat thing so no one should expect the Republican Party to get won over into believing facts again but Bill Nye laid it all out nice and easy. The temperature is rising quickly. It is a race against time and the longer that Republicans deny and delay the worse it will be for our planet our people and our future. For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	False	False	False	False	True
Virginias efforts to fight climate change got a big boost after Tuesdays election with Democrats flipping both chambers of the states General Assembly. As part of its pre election platform Virginias Democratic party unanimously endorsed two major progressive environmental resolutions They voted in favor of setting a target of net zero carbon emissions for the state by 2050 and they endorsed the Green New Deal Virginia. Like the Green New Deal resolution introduced in the US Congress Virginias version aims to move the state to 100 percent renewable energy while pursuing social welfare programs like job retraining for workers who would lose their jobs in the transition. Climate change isnt a far off issue for Virginians so its not surprising that some were thinking about it at the ballot box. Many are already starting to feel the effects of the melting ice and warming oceans that result from rising average temperatures. The Hampton Roads region for example is facing the highest rate of sea level rise on the East Coast. Rising waters are worsening the impacts of tropical storms that strike the state and will cost Virginia cities billions of dollars in losses in the coming decades. Thats why Tuesdays results are a big deal for Virginia voters who want the state to do more to limit climate change. The new Democratic legislative majority could also allow Gov. Ralph Northam to fulfill his long thwarted ambition of bringing Virginia into the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative RGGI a compact among nine East Coast states to cap and trade greenhouse gas emissions credits. Northam had failed to get the Republican led legislature on board with his climate goals but he signed an executive order in September mandating that Virginia generate 30 percent of its electricity from renewables by 2030 and generate all power from non carbon emitting sources by 2050. Joining RGGI would be a key way to finance this transition toward cleaner energy with revenue coming from auctioning off carbon credits. Virginias Democratic Party also said that it would refuse contributions from energy providers like Dominion Energy and Appalachian Power that generate power from fossil fuels. Its part of a national campaign from environmental activists to push public officials to say no to money from the coal oil and natural gas industries. Yet in many key races Democrats still out raised their Republican opponents. But the test of these election promises will be in how theyre implemented. Virginia gets 53 percent of its electricity from natural gas and 10 percent from coal so its a long uphill walk to zero emissions. Virginia is just the latest state where limiting climate change has proved to be a winning issue The election results also show yet again that Democrats can campaign and win on aggressive action on climate change. And they illustrate that despite high profile criticism from Republicans the Green New Deal is proving to be popular with many voters even in local elections. Ahead of the election polls showed that more than 60 percent of Virginians wanted their government to do more about climate change. Young Virginia voters said climate change was a top tier concern. Candidates like Joshua Cole who won the election for Virginias 28th House District campaigned on environmental action including upgrading infrastructure to make it more resilient and deploying clean energy. With Congress deadlocked and President Donald Trump pulling the United States out of the Paris climate agreement Virginias election also highlights how the biggest opportunities to curb greenhouse gases are occurring at the state level. States like Oregon New Mexico Colorado and Nevada are already locking in more stringent limits on greenhouse gases and setting higher targets for deploying clean energy. And almost every Democrat running for the White House in 2020 wants to ramp up action on climate change should any of them take office. So climate change is likely to remain a key campaign issue for Democrats in the coming elections.	True	True	False	True	True
China is helping Pakistan build up its energy sector including a 3.5 billion joint venture to extract 1.3 gigawatts worth of coal in the Thar desert. Pakistan plans to use Thar brown coal to bring electricity to the millions of people living in energy poverty or suffering through daily blackouts. The country could get 24 percent of its electricity from coal by 2020 with the help of China. Its one of many coal projects China is backing abroad while it cuts coal mining and power generation at home to fight pollution. China also promised to peak greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 as part of the Paris climate agreement. Chinas energy ministry canceled more than 100 coal fired power plants that were being planned or being built in January. The country reaffirmed its commitment to its Paris commitments after U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order rolling back global warming regulations in late March. As a responsible developing country Chinas plan determination and policy to tackle climate change is resolute Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang told the Associated Press. Chinas coal use fell nearly 5 percent last year but the country still gets 62 percent of its electricity from coal fired power plants. The countryscut in domestic coal use comes as they fund coal projects abroad including the Engro mine in the Thar desert. Another Chinese joint venture plans to build another coal project near the Engro mine in June. Another block of coal will begin production for electricity generation by 2019 reports the Salt Law Tribune. China has also backed coal fired power plants in Southeast Asian countries including Vietnam. China is involved in financing or building at least 79 coal fired power projects around the world. The total generating capacity of those projects is 52 gigawatts. Why the push abroad? It provides Chinese firms and investors with opportunities to make money off coal projects at a time when thats less politically popular in China. Coal workers also travel to these projects keeping them from losing their jobs. The Engro mine for example has 350 Chinese workers and the return on equity for Chinese investors is about 30 percent according to the Salt Lake Tribune. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	False	False	False	False	True
ROME Reuters Pope Francis implicitly criticized the United States on Monday for pulling out of the Paris agreement on climate change praising it as a means to control the devastating effects of global warming. The United States is the only country out of 195 signatories to have withdrawn from the accord which aims to cut emissions blamed for the rise in temperatures. U.S. President Donald Trump announced the decision in June shortly after visiting the pope a strong supporter of the deal. At the time a Vatican official said the move was a slap in the face for the pope and the Vatican. We see consequences of climate change every day the pope said in an address to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation FAO at its headquarters in Rome. Thanks to scientific knowledge we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods such as the Paris Accord which sadly some have abandoned he said. Under the deal United States had committed to reducing its own emissions by 26 to 28 percent compared with 2005 levels by 2025. Many world leaders have criticized Trump for deciding to pull out. In his Spanish language address to the U.N. agency Francis denounced negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet and the greed for profit. Agriculture ministers and diplomats from the Group of Seven G7 world power nations attended the gathering which marked FAOs World Food Day. We cant be satisfied by saying someone else will do it' the pope said. Ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the prerequisites for dealing with world food security Francis also said. The yoke of poverty caused by the often tragic movement of migrants can be removed by prevention consisting of development projects that create jobs and offer the capacity to respond to climactic and environmental changes he said.	False	True	False	True	False
The US will consider its interests first as it reviews its climate change policy the secretary of state says. Rex Tillerson told a meeting of the eight Arctic nations in Alaska that the US would not rush to make a decision and would consider their views. President Donald Trump has expressed doubts over the human role in climate change and has said he may pull the US out of the Paris Accord to fight it. Meanwhile other Arctic countries have called for a cut on greenhouse gases. They signed an agreement which stated there was a need for urgent global action. Climate change was the biggest issue at the biennial meeting of the Arctic Council in Fairbanks which was overshadowed by the uncertainties over Mr Trump's policy. Mr Tillerson the former chief executive of Exxon Mobil told the meeting that the administration was reviewing how it would approach climate change. We are appreciative that each of you has an important point of view and you should know that we are taking the time to understand your concerns he said. We're not going to rush to make a decision. We're going to work to make the right decision for the United States. Mr Trump is to decide whether the US will leave or reduce its commitments to the Paris agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions which was negotiated by around 200 nations and signed in 2015. An announcement is expected after a trip to Europe later this month. The joint agreement by the Arctic Council mentioned the Paris accord only in a passing reference which noted the deal's entry into force and implementation. But the text did not recommit its members to meet the pledges made. Some climate scientists here in Alaska say they are pleasantly surprised by the relatively tough language on climate change adopted by all eight Arctic Council nations including the United States. The thrust of the text argues Prof John Walsh chief scientist at the University of Alaska's International Arctic Research Center actually echoes the approach of the Obama administration. The acceptance of the urgent need to reduce greenhouse gases such as methane and carbon dioxide and pollutants like black carbon and aerosols appears significant. But a couple of things are missing. Although the logic of the statement insists that human activity is causing climate change the word human is not actually present. Nor is there a commitment to implement the landmark Paris accord an omission which is causing alarm among environmentalists. Not only that but many of the Trump administration's early policy decisions prioritised economic growth over environmental protection and Mr Tillerson continues to insist that American climate policy remains under review. So in short it is far too early to conclude that the White House has suddenly been persuaded by mainstream scientific opinion on global warming and with US politics in astonishing flux the Fairbanks Declaration may be no more than a holding statement.	True	True	True	False	False
The federal rule required vehicles to average 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025 nearly double todays standard. The new standard provided significant environmental and financial benefits if fully implemented. Under those rules oil consumption would fall by 12 billion barrels tailpipe emissions would halve and fuel efficiency would nearly double saving consumers 3200 to 5700 in gasoline costs over a vehicles lifetime. The regulation would have prevented 6 billion metric tons of planet warming gases equivalent to a years worth of pollution from 150 power plants from ever entering the atmosphere. In its 38 page finding the EPA cited lower gas prices and changes to consumer acceptance of advanced technology vehicles as reasons the original determinations no longer represent realistic assumptions. The agency also said it planned to reconsider how climate change factored in to regulation noting that the social cost of carbon and energy security valuation ... should also be updated to be consistent with the literature and empirical evidence. The memo made no mention of climate change. Automakers agreed to the rule in 2012 as part of the first major overhaul of fuel efficiency standards since the 1970s. But the policy set an April 2018 deadline to review the standards and tweak them if they proved too expensive or impossible to meet. In January 2017 the Obama administration attempted to lock the regulation in place by issuing a positive assessment of the costs and feasibility of the regulations. Despite overwhelmingly supporting the agreement seven years ago carmakers began lobbying then President elect Donald Trump to reverse the Obama ruling almost immediately after the 2016 election.Automakers missed their emissions target for the first time last year even though they achieved record fuel economy in part because the companies boosted production of gas guzzling SUVs. The decision to rewrite the rule puts the EPA at loggerheads with California regulators who agreed in 2011 as part of the rule to align their tailpipe emissions standards with the national levels. The deal guaranteed consistent mileage and emissions rules nationwide allowing automakers to save money by manufacturing vehicles to one standard. Undoing the rule threatens to upend that uniformity. Under the Clean Air Act California is allowed to set vehicle emissions standards higher than the rest of the country and with nearly 35.4 million registered vehicles the state commands powerful influence over the American auto market. A dozen other states including New York Massachusetts and Pennsylvania have historically followed Californias lead. Cooperative federalism doesnt mean that one state can dictate standards for the rest of the country Pruitt said. It is in Americas best interest to have a national standard and we look forward to partnering with all states including California as we work to finalize that standard. The decision prompted sharp criticism from former EPA administrators. Carol Browner who served as the agencys chief from 1993 to 2001 said Pruitt was wrong to cast California as wielding outsize influence over the regulations. She noted that the Golden State compromised on a number of rules including a zero emissions vehicle program. This is all just another case of this administration wanting to make good on their political rhetoric and in this case not even wanting to make good for our own automakersMcCarthy now the director of Harvard Universitys Center for Health and the Global Environmenttold HuffPost. We support increasing clean car standards through 2025 and are not asking for a rollback they wrote in a blog post on Medium. We want one set of standards nationally along with additional flexibility to help us provide more affordable options for our customers. The EPA never implemented the Clean Power Plan the signature Obama era rule to reduce emissions from the utility sector. But the law is still on the books and the EPA has yet to propose a replacement that meets the legal requirements set by a 2007 Supreme Court ruling that found the agency is obliged to regulate any type of air pollution that may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare including greenhouse gases. The EPA and the Department of the Interior moved to eliminate Obama era rules restricting methane emissions from gas drilling sites. But last July the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled against the EPAs plan to suspend the rule. In February the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California ruled that the Interior Departments plan to delay methane regulations was untethered to evidence.	False	False	False	True	True
Two of the attorneys representing various cities in climate litigation against oil companies have a history of suing and counter suing each other over personal squabbles according to documents obtained by The Daily Caller News Foundation. Environmental attorneys Vic Sher and Matt Pawa got intoa multi million dollar legal dispute in 2014 stemming from a lawsuit they both worked on against ExxonMobil. Sher who was with Sher Leff at the time allegedPawas group Pawa Law Group failed to distribute money from a settlement in the case. Pawa in turn argued in a lawsuit that Sher was the one cheating him out of millions of dollars. Sher who is now with Sher Edling eventually paid Pawa about 6 million for the retributionscourt documents show. The disagreementstems from a lawsuit New Hampshire filed in 2013 alleging Exxon negligently contaminated the states water ways with 2 billion gallons of MTBE a gas additive experts believe poisons drinking water. The intrigue comes amid growing bad blood between the two sides. The state initially sued 26 oil companies in 2003 over the contamination. New Hampshire previously collected over 130 million for MTBE cleanup from the other defendants. The jury eventually awarded the state damages of 816 million. Exxon was made to pay roughly 29 percent of market share which equaled roughly 236372664 at the time of the lawsuit. New Hampshires Supreme Courtupheld the decisionin 2015 after Exxon appealed the ruling to the top court. A dispute arose between Pawa and Sher in 2012 relating to the division of attorneys fees between them under a contract with New Hampshire which retained both to represent the state in the Exxon contamination case. A panel eventually awarded Pawa nearly 6 million for breaching the agreement. Sher Leff refused to comply with the final award including payment of the amounts awarded to Pawas law firm even while Sher Leff pocketed more than 27 million in attorneys fees from the Exxon case. Sher countersued in 2014 arguing Pawa entered into a secondary oral agreement that the legal fees associated with the case would be delivered proportionally. Shers case was dismissed. Neither Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP a California based law firm that now employs Pawa nor Sher Edling responded to TheDCNFs request for comment about how the nearly five year old lawsuit is affecting their current legal pursuits of Exxon. Both law firms Sher Edling and Hagens Berman are barnstorming the country convincing cities to sue energy companies for allegedly contributing to damage caused by climate change. The rivalry between the two attorneys heated up Nov. 26 after San Francisco and Oaklandfired Hagens Bermanand hired Sher Edling to represent the cities as they appeal a courts decision to dismiss their lawsuits against Exxon. Hagens Berman is handling King County Washingtonslawsuit againstfive major oil companies. The California based firm was also behind anow dismissed climate lawsuitbrought by New York City.RELATEDAnti Exxon Attorneys Suffer Setback Amid Rash Of Legal Defeats Hagens Bermans fee would have been 23.5 percent of any winnings from its cases with San Francisco and Oakland. Hagens Bermanstood to earn possiblybillions of dollars in contingency fees depending on the total winnings had San Francisco Oakland or New York City won their global warming suits. Sher Edling for its part ishandlingclimate lawsuits for six California cities and counties. Local governments suing fossil fuel interests argue state nuisance and trespassing laws which have sometimes been applied to pollution also apply to global warming. They also accuse energy companies of trying to downplay the harms their products allegedly cause. Hagens Berman and Sher Edlings dramacomes after New York fileda lawsuit in October against Exxon for allegedly downplaying for decades the risk the companys oil products pose on the climate. The lawsuitfollows over three years of investigationfirst orchestrated by former Attorney General Eric Schneiderman who resigned in April over abuse allegations from former romantic partners. The probe took many twists and turns and seemed to come to a halt shortly after his resignation.RELATEDSEC Investigators Decide Not To Punish Exxon For Alleged Climate Heresy Exxon engaged in a longstanding fraudulent scheme to deceive investors analysts and underwriters concerning the companys management of the risks posed to its business by climate change regulationthe lawsuit notes. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	False	False	True	True
Republican Rep. Matt Gaetz unveiled the Green Real Deal on Wednesday as a free market counterproposal to the Green New Deal being pushed by Democratsto combat climate change. The question for America is pretty simple either we want a bunch of bureaucrats in Washington telling us what we cant do or we empower American innovators to unlock things that we can do the Florida congressman said at a press conference in front of the Capitol building. AOC MOCKS CRITICS OF GREEN NEW DEAL'S ESTIMATED 93 TRILLION PRICE TAG 'THEY SOUND LIKE DR. EVIL' His plan which he is putting forward in a House resolutioninvolves a number of planks including revisitingglobal trade and intellectual property policies to create an international marketplace fair to American innovators. Gaetz's planalso aims to modernize the electric grid which he says currently functions as a wet blanket over American innovation. Gaetz claims that upgrading the grid will create an entire class of energy entrepreneurs across the country. He also wants to unlock federal lands from current regulations saying they can be an open canvas for renewable energy research testing and evaluation. The plan comes in response to the Green New Deal a once fringe policy that seeks to overhaul the nations economy and energy use to combat climate change and combat income inequality. But this year it has emerged in the Democratic mainstream with a resolution introduced in the House and support from most major 2020 Democratic presidential candidates. However a test vote on the proposal recently failed in the Senate with no senator voting to begin debate on the legislation. The proposalincludes a host of costly and controversial big government programs including a push for net zero greenhouse gas emissions universal health care andjob guarantee programs. In the press conference Gaetz made references to FAQs released by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs D N.Y. office that said the deal aims to upgrade or replace every building for energy efficiency and render air travel unnecessary while joking about getting rid of farting cows. Do we really believe that if we outlaw cars cows planes and buildings that the rest of the world will follow? he said. Of course not they will laugh at us. While Gaetzs proposal consists of free market and small government ideas of the kind Republicans have long embraced the plan is a notable shift for the party towardtackling climate change in some fashion. Traditionally Republicans have been more skeptical about mans influence on the climate. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Andrew Wheeler was asked in January at his confirmation hearing if he believed warnings from scientists about the threats of climate change. I would not call it the greatest crisis no he said. In an indication of likely conservative opposition to Gaetz'splan advocacy group FreedomWorks issued a statement calling it a sad example of Republicans thinking theyre conservatives by being slightly to the right of far left. Whats more it is presented as a collection of bold new ideas yet most of them are policies and programs that exist and arent working. This is perhaps the only thing real about the Green Real Deal' the statement said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Gaetzsaid at the press conference that he doesn't think the EPA has done a good job of combating climate change and said he wants to shift the debate among Republicans from focusing on theexistence of climate change to how to combat it. I didn't come to Congress to argue with a thermometer and I think that more of my colleagues need to realize that the science of global warming is irrefutable he said.	True	False	False	False	True
The sun dips towards the sea on Xifara beach as Stella Cervello walks along picking up handfuls of plastic waste. There are shredded plastic bags a glowstick from a rave on nearby Mykonos and even a food carton from Turkey. Look you can see all the microplastics she says pointing at a mass of coloured dots bobbing on the waves. Like many islands in Greece's Cycladic region waste production on the island of Paros explodes in summer when over 400000 tourists join a local population of just 13000. Paros is now at the centre of a drive to turn itself into the world's first island that is truly free of plastic waste. It looks like quite a challenge. In high season the white and blue painted cafes that line the picturesque streets get through 1000 plastic takeaway cups a day. Thousands of plastic bottles of water are shipped in daily because many believe the tap water is undrinkable although the water company insists that is wrong. You are really exposed to the reality of the situation when you live by the sea says campaigner Zana Kontamanoli. The Greek waste management system suffered heavy cuts during the country's financial crisis meaning recycling is often not separated and many landfill sites are not up to EU standards. A shocking 95 of waste in the Mediterranean is plastic. But within three years this may change. Paros residents Stella Cervello and Zana Kontamanoli are behind the Clean Blue Paros initiative that involves the local municipality as well as several NGOs. I was really shocked when I arrived. I could not believe how many plastic cups were flying around by the beach says Ms Cervello who began trying to make the island more sustainable when she moved here from France in 2016. And while she was starting up a Facebook group and talking to businesses about possible alternatives to plastic Jo Royle from the charity Common Seas was trying to identify a Mediterranean island that could become a model for a future free of plastic waste. Islands provide a microcosm of a system that allows us to clearly see material flows says Ms Royle. We've got one port where everything comes in and goes off so we can really evaluate whether the systems we're piloting work. Paros was chosen because its changes in population give it complexity and because she found out when she visited the island that people were already working on the issue. Other islands such as the Seychelles archipelago have banned single use plastics but this is the first time an entirely new approach is being taken to make an island completely free of plastic waste. Huge signs now greet tourists at the airport to tell them about the Paros initiative. It's what the island needs says Ms Cervello. The team's first task was to convince as many local businesses as possible to drop pointless plastics such as straws and bottled water. Out of 70 businesses we've spoken to 50 have signed up says Zana Kontamanoli. Fourteen businesses are piloting the separate collection of plastic cups and bottles which have a higher value recycle rate. The plastic will then be recycled on the mainland into something that can return to the island such as benches. Research shows that when recycling is separated people are less likely to just chuck all their waste in and contaminate it says Kontamanoli. However there are still many obstacles facing the team. Most bins on the island do not close so the strong Aegean winds blow waste into the sea. And while many residents are enthusiastic about the project there are still some that need convincing. Not serving bottled water has harmed us admits Andy Kirk owner of Nemobar the first business to sign up to the scheme. Even when we explain we have a water filter many customers don't like it. But we've stuck to our guns. Another sticking point has been convincing bakeries and pharmacies to stop using plastic bags. The team has managed to collect thousands of used hotel bed sheets which would usually be sent to landfill and are making them into tote bags. In our audit we found that on some parts of the island 60 of waste was recyclable so there needs to be more education says Kontamanoli. The team is focusing its education efforts on the island's 2500 schoolchildren. Most drink one small bottle of water a day each so they are being given refillable bottles while water filters are being installed at schools. Children are powerful drivers of change because they go home and talk to their parents about it says Zana Kontamanoli. Although they are only six months in the team are optimistic that big changes can be made as soon as the tourist season is over and residents have more time on their hands to overhaul how they do things. Plastic pollution is very complex and there's not one solution says Jo Royle. But we hope if these systems work they can be applied elsewhere too.	False	True	False	True	False
A new study published in the highly influential journal Nature suggests rising global temperatures during the 19th and 20th centuries may be linked to greater plant photosynthesis. The study conducted by researchers at the University of California at Merced estimated based on its models the sum of all plant photosynthesis on Earth grew by 30 percent over the 200 year record captured according to an article published on the UC Merced website. Photosynthesis is the process of converting carbon dioxide into carbohydrates which power plants using sunlight. According to the UC Merced article The research did not identify the cause of the increased photosynthesis but computer models have shown several processes that could together create such a large change in global plant growth. The leading candidates are rising atmospheric CO2 levels a result of emissions from human activities longer growing seasons a result of climate change caused by CO2 emissions and nitrogen pollution another result of fossil fuel combustion and agriculture the article also claims. In other words more carbon dioxide which is being produced by humans at record levels has improved plant growth which in turn improves food production for humans and animals. Campbell said the evidence shows a fundamental shift in the Earths plants and that global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race. However dont too excited Campbell warns. He says despite the researchers findings which clearly show global warming helps plantsand thus also helping humans and animalsglobal warming has many negative effects too such as causing climate change which will increase flooding of coastal cities extreme weather and ocean acidification. The researchers study in Nature provided no proof oftheclaim global warming is caused by humans or that global warming will cause the severe problemsCampbell said it will in the quotes provided by the UC Merced article. The study also offered no solutions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions without causing severe economic and social problems for billions of people. The study did however show increased carbon dioxide levels have generally helped plants and crops.	False	False	False	True	True
The news but shorter. Your daily wrap up for the day in news. Subscribe to get Vox Sentences delivered straight to your inbox. This story is part of a group of stories called Vox Sentences is your daily digest for whats happening in the world. Sign up for the Vox Sentences newsletter delivered straight to your inbox Monday through Friday or view the Vox Sentences archive for past editions. UN climate talks ended Sunday without a full agreement of world powers on how to address the imminent threat of global warming. AP News Frank Jordans and Aritz Parra While the negotiations were meant to shore up the Paris agreement and define the terms on which the signatory countries would reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. But Trump has pulled the US out of the deal unofficially since the US cant formally withdraw until November 4 2020 the day after the American presidential election. Vox Umair Irfan The US along with other major polluters blocked a nonbinding measure that set higher standards for emissions reduction across the world and left little more than a weak call to action in the final declaration of the event. New York Times Somini Sengupta Several other countries who are experiencing climate disasters of their own such as Australia and Brazil also participated in gutting the summit. Financial Times Were in a very politically difficult time right now where weve got one key world leader denying climate change so its very hard to get other countries to move forward when youve got such a critical country playing a spoiling role said Ian Fry a delegate from Tuvalu. Politico Zack Colman and Kalina Oroschakoff Future negotiations are possible with the next UN sponsored conference regarding climate change set to take place in Glasgow but the EU China summit next September in Leipzig will likely decide the outcome of future global efforts to combat climate change. BBC Matt McGrath Voxs Ezra Klein says there is still hope and time for us to fight global warming. The tools are within our reach. Vox Ezra Klein Some states are looking to shell out billions to help the 2020 census effort while others wont even pitch in a dime. New York Times Michael Wines and Jose A. Del Real Many of these costly efforts surround reaching hard to count populations within states often at the expense of those populations. NBC29 CJ Paschall Another potential issue that is concerning researchers is the obfuscation of the data due to the new policy of differential privacy that is designed to protect individual responses. While it is supposed to prevent individuals from being identified within data sets it is skewing data and producing problems in the analysis. Roll Call Michael Macagnone The Council on Foreign Relations Andrew Chatzky explains why the census really matters granting political agency dividing up federal funds and assist private companies in matching their business endeavors with receptive populations. Council on Foreign Relations Andrew Chatzky Oklahoma City and other local governments are looking to end food deserts by working with dollar stores. Wall Street Journal Talal Ansari Harvey Weinstein says he should receive thanks and recognition for helping women in Hollywood advance their careers. Page Six Rebecca Rosenberg Fox News is rebutting Trumps own claims of good polling numbers. Vox Aaron Rupar While speaking at the Doha Forum in Qatar Ivanka Trump answered questions and sent mixed signals about the Middle East plan. Buzzfeed News Otillia Steadman If a person can accomplish all of that positivity with so little imagine what they could do with a little bit of support and encouragement. Terah Lawyer program coordinator for the Homecoming Project speaking to the impact of the project Watch this What makes Delhis air so deadly How Indias air quality plummeted and why its a danger to the public. YouTube Christina Thornell and Mac Schneider How a denial of tenure at Harvard became a national controversy Healthcare.gov glitches almost ruined the end of open enrollment. Is there a better way? Mitt Romney and Michael Bennet just unveiled a basic income plan for kids The reason were talking about a government shutdown yet again briefly explained	False	True	False	True	False
We told you last week that the DNC refused to allow their 2020 Democratic candidates to debate the issue of Climate Change. They were afraid that it would end up hurting whichever candidate goes into the general election next year. Well this is the end result of that decision. CNN has announced one massive town hall on Climate Change not massive in crowd size but massive in the amount of time it will take CNN on Tuesday announced the candidate lineup for its unprecedented prime time event focused on the climate crisis. Ten Democratic presidential hopefuls will appear in New York at back to back town halls on Wednesday September 4 taking audience questions about their climate plans as scientists sound the alarm about global warming. Along with the candidates the network also announced the CNN journalists and the approximate appearance times for the presidential hopefuls during the seven hour live event. Here are the details of this marathon non debate town hall Id rather fall into a 40000 foot deep man made hole in Russia than watch Democrats tell us how were all going to die in 12 years if we dont get rid of fossil fuels.	False	False	False	True	False
A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit Friday targeting ExxonMobil on the basis that two California cities waging a legal battle could not prove the energy company was responsible for climate change in the state. District Judge William Alsup wrote that San Francisco and Oakland failed to prove that global warming would be substantially curtailed if the oil company did not operate inside California. His decision follows a ruling the judge made in June dismissing both cases on the grounds that Congress not the court system is responsible for addressing the emission of greenhouse gasses. It is manifest thatglobal warming would have continued in the absence of all California related activities of defendants Alsup wrote in his July 27 decision. Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants alleged California activities to plaintiffs harm. Cities in Colorado Rhode Island and New York have also filed similar lawsuits against energy producers over the past year. They argue that Exxon and others should pony up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change. Many of the lawsuits have already been nixed. Alsup also suggested that climate change would be no better or worse even if Exxon were not operating in California. From all that appears in the amended complaints howeverthis worldwide chain of events Exxons oil production does not depend on a particular defendants contacts with California he said. Whatever sales or events occurred in California werecausally insignificantin the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming. Trial lawyers with Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled climate lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings called a contingency fee.RELATED Trial Lawyers Handling Cities Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions Hagens Bermanstood to earn billions of dollarsin contingency fees depending on the total winnings from a favorable judgement against oil companies. The three cities claimed billions of dollars worth of damage from global warming induced by fossil fuels.	True	True	False	True	False
Washington CNN Hurricane Florence ravaged Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune in North Carolina in September leaving behind an estimated 3.6 billion worth of wreckage. But there's no mention of that in a new Pentagon report detailing the impact of climate change on the defense department. The Report on Effects of a Changing Climate to the Department of Defense does not mention Camp Lejeune the Marine Corps Hurricane Florence or even the threats posed by extreme weather events more destructive storms more intense rainfall that scientists say are more likely given climate change and global warming. Those omissions are just one reason lawmakers greeted the Congressionally mandated report with eviscerating criticism on Friday. The report didn't meet the legal requirement to list the 10 most vulnerable military installations for each service they said. And despite the global impact of climate change it didn't list a single US military installation outside the United States. Lawmakers pointing to President Donald Trump's skepticism about climate change and his administration's steady rollback of measures meant to mitigate the impacts of global warming were scathing. The report is an inadequate incomplete partisan document said Sen. Jack Reed the ranking Democratic member of the Armed Services Committee. We know that climate change is real and impacts the way our Armed Forces carry out their missions in different parts of the globe Reed said in a statement. Former Secretary James Mattis recognized and affirmed this fact. The Pentagon report follows a January study by the Government Accountability Office that found that under the Trump administration the State Department removed guidance to overseas missions on how to include climate change risks in their country strategies particularly in relation to migration. The Pentagon report notes that the department is incorporating climate resilience as a cross cutting consideration for our planning and decision making process and not as a separate program or specific set of actions. Pentagon spokesman Lt. Col. Mike Andrews said the effects of a changing climate are a national security issue with potential impacts to DOD missions operational plans and installations. But Reed noted that despite legal requirements the Pentagon report simply outlined an alphabetical list of 79 military installations. The report reads like an introductory primer and carries about as much value as a phonebook he said. And Rep. Jim Langevin a Rhode Island Democrat who sits on the House Armed Services Committee said he was deeply disappointed. Langevin noted that the the report comes after a year where the Department suffered nearly 10 billion in damage in just two extreme events at Tyndall Air Force Base and Camp Lejeunetwo installations that were not even evaluated. Pentagon spokeswoman Heather Babb said the report highlights the climate vulnerabilities of the top 79 mission assurance priority installations. By using this alternative approach we are able to highlight where there are operational risks. The Pentagon did not answer multiple questions from CNN including why it failed to meet Congress' request to list the 10 most vulnerable installations why it mentioned no military installations outside the US or why the climate factors it considered did not include extreme weather and why Camp Lejeune isn't listed among the 79 installations. Babb also declined to respond to Reed's criticism. The report acknowledges that the effects of a changing climate are a national security issue with potential impacts to Department of Defense missions operational plans and installations. It looks at the impact of recurrent flooding noting that Joint Base Langley in Virginia has seen a 14 inch sea level rise since 1930. It briefly notes military installations affected drought particularly in the southwest and by desertification. The report touches on wildfires that came close to Space Launch complexes and a southern California base as well as thawing permafrost in Alaska. Although no overseas military installations were listed the report noted the widely recognized impact climate change has on fragile regions particularly in Africa and Asia and the instability and conflict it can create. It lists a few projects the defense department has undertaken with partner countries and notes the need to consider how drought and desertification impact overseas bases and missions. The report also raised very briefly the logistical challenge weather conditions can create for intelligence collection surveillance and reconnaissance as well as recovery and casualty evacuation. And it flagged the way climate change will create new security challenges in the Arctic where melting ice means greater access but also greater international competition for the waterways.	False	False	False	True	False
LOS ANGELES Reuters One of the worst droughts in California history has officially ended Governor Jerry Brown declared but not before it strained the states farm economy and threatened water supplies for millions of residents. Months of drenching storms and melting snowpack have replenished reservoirs which began drying up in late 2011. That allowed Brown to lift most stipulations of an emergency order he implemented in January 2014 about two years after the conditions crossed the line into drought. Brown also said the need for conservation continued. Officials will still require some long term water use limits imposed last year and are developing water preservation standards for urban agencies. This drought emergency is over but the next drought could be around the corner Brown said in a statement. Conservation must remain a way of life. The drought cost the agricultural economy billions killed an estimated 100 million trees led a half million acres of farmland to be fallowed and deprived some communities of reliable sources of drinking water. In April 2015 when the states snowpack hit its lowest since 1950 at 5 percent of its historic average Brown stood on a dry mountain that was normally blanketed in snow at that time of year and ordered urban areas to reduce water use by 25 percent. As of last week the snowpack stood at 150 percent of normal. The 2015 order led environmentalists to complain that the state which leads the nation in production of fruits and vegetables did too little to force farmers to conserve water. For their part farmers said they received far less water than promised by state and federal authorities. On Friday the Democratic governor lifted the drought declaration in all counties except four mostly in the states agricultural Central Valley. Its worth taking a moment to be grateful for all the rain and snow out there Felicia Marcus chair of the State Water Resources Control Board told reporters on a conference call after the governors announcement. California officials have credited residents for doing their part to conserve water by taking shorter showers and ripping out grass lawns to install landscaping that requires minimal irrigation among other measures. Even though the drought is officially over groundwater supplies remain below normal the Natural Resources Defense Council cautioned in a statement. Year after year California continues to use more water than is made available by nature Kate Poole director of the groups water and wildlife project said in a statement.	True	False	False	True	True
White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders dismissed a major White House climate change report that some have used to criticize President Donald Trumps position on global warming. The report is not based on facts Sanders told reporters during a press conference Tuesday. She also arguedthat climate modeling of the kind researchers used in the National Climate Assessment report is never exact. We think that this is the most extreme version and its not based on facts she said. Its not data driven. Wed like to see something that is more data driven. Its based on modeling which is extremely hard to do when youre talking about the climate. The NCA report came from a team of 13 federal agencies and was cobbled together with the help of 300 scientists. They used a Representative Concentration Pathway adopted by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes IPCC fifth Assessment Report AR5 to make their conclusions. Continued use of coal and other fossil fuels will eliminate 10 percent of the GDP by 2100according to the report. The country will also be 3 to 12 degrees hotter depending on the level of greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere the report warns. It also suggests wildfires and hurricanes will increase as a result if the risk is left unchecked. The report is not without its controversies. One climate expert argues researchers used an unreliable climate model. University of Colorado Prof. Roger Pielke Jr. for instance criticized the researchers in a series of tweets Saturday for basing their modeling on a data that are likely to change dramatically over the course of the next 80 years. He says the NCAs second volume relies on the RCP8.5 one of the four possible pathways in the trajectory. RELATED A Top Line Claim In The Newest US Climate Report Relies On Research Tied To Major Democratic Donors This particular pathway is slowly being phased out of the IPCCs modeling becausescientists believethe model likely overestimates future supply of fossil fuels. Researchers used the most extreme example possible to sell the narrative that wildfires will get worse Pielke noted. He has criticized the medias handling of similar reports. NCAs dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes froma 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors. The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	True	True
Trump's EPA Plans To Ease Carbon Emissions Rule For New Coal Plants The Trump administration plans to eliminate an Obama era requirement that new coal fired power plants have expensive technology to capture carbon dioxide emissions. This latest administration effort to boost fossil fuel industries comes as leaders from nearly 200 countries are meeting in Poland to discuss how to keep greenhouse gasses out of the atmosphere. And amid reports that CO2 emissions are rising again as well as the administration's own report that climate change is causing more severe weather more frequently and could eventually hurt the U.S. economy. The Environmental Protection Agency proposal would revise its New Source Performance Standards for coal power plants allowing coal fired generators to emit more CO2 per megawatt hour of electricity generated. This would ease an Obama era rule that was a central target in critics' accusations of a war on coal. The coal industry argues the existing Obama administration requirements made it all but impossible to build new coal power plants by requiring costly technologies such as carbon capture and storage. EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler a former coal industry lobbyist echoed that argument in announcing the proposed rule change. By replacing onerous regulations with high yet achievable standards we can continue America's historic energy production keep energy prices affordable and encourage new investments in cutting edge technology that can then be exported around the world said Wheeler. Environmental groups argue that in order to reduce climate change risks the world will have to stop burning coal. They blasted the EPA's announcement. This is just one more foolhardy move by a misguided administration that will be judged harshly by future generations said David Doniger senior strategic director of the Climate Clean Energy program at the Natural Resources Defense Council. Today's proposal is nothing more than another thoughtless attempt by the Trump Administration to prop up their backwards and false narrative about reviving coal at the expense of science public safety and reality said Mary Anne Hitt senior director of Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign. In fact it's not at all clear if the change would help the ailing coal industry. In recent years it has stopped building new plants and been shutting down old ones instead. The federal Energy Information Administration reports U.S. coal consumption has declined over the last decade and this year is expected to be at its lowest level in 39 years. Even as coal use rises in China and India coal has struggled in the U.S. to compete with cheaper electricity produced from natural gas and renewable energy. But coal industry officials believe this rule change will still help. It does appear that this proposal would make it feasible for new coal plants to be a viable option in the future in the United States says Michelle Bloodworth president and CEO of the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity. This is the latest in a series of efforts the Trump administration has taken to help the coal business. Previous actions include relaxing Obama era regulations on carbon emissions and mercury emissions as well as rolling back existing regulations that govern coal ash. The EPA will collect public comments on the proposal for 60 days and plans to hold a public hearing on the proposed rule change.	True	True	False	True	True
This week President Donald Trump was to meet with senior administration officials to discuss the deal and whether the United States should withdraw from it. The meeting was postponed indefinitely and with key Trump advisers divided over the issue it is still uncertain what Trump will finally do about the accord. But advocates of greater federal regulations to address climate change are already expressing dismay about the administration's stance. It's no secret that Trump has called climate change a hoax in the past. Last month he signed an executive order rolling back Obama era climate regulations which will initiate a review of the Clean Power Plan an effort to cut carbon dioxide emissions that Obama started. And Trump's pick to run the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt has made it clear addressing climate change will not be an urgent priority for the agency under his watch declining to say after his confirmation whether he would forbid EPA scientists from studying the human connection to the issue. We have many priorities at the agency. We must focus on those he told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on The Situation Room in February rattling off other needs such as improving air quality. He declined to answer repeated questions as to whether he would allow climate change research. It's a shame for us to lose our leadership position said Christine Todd Whitman the EPA administrator during the George W. Bush administration. We are an extraordinarily innovative capable nation. We can come up with better ways to provide power to people and still keep jobs. This idea that environmental protection and economic growth are contrary are just wrong and we've proven that over the years as we have reduced the pollutants in the air increased the population increased our energy demand and watched our GDP more than double. We've seen we can do this Whitman continued. We've done it in the past we can do it again. We can't have a thriving economy if you don't have a healthy clean environment. Adam Koniuszewski project leader of the Gorbachev Climate Change Task Force a think tank that focuses on global challenges posed by climate change agreed with Whitman. President Trump has an America First policy he said. But in terms of climate leadership it is exactly the opposite. Promoting a coal or fossil fuel based economy will in reality leave America last in terms of a low carbon economy in the 21st century. China is already taking the lead when it comes to renewable energy both solar and wind power. America must look forward to and innovate for 21st century solutions. An emphasis on coal and the energy sources that propelled the industrial revolution is like returning to the Stone Age. Trump's executive order also lifts the moratorium on coal mining on federal lands something that William Becker executive director of the Presidential Climate Action Project called a cruel political stunt designed to rally the support of coal miners but which won't bring back many jobs. What we need to do is make sure the transition to clean energy which is inevitable is a just and fair transition one that helps coal dependent communities and workers make transitions into other kinds of jobs Becker said. There's plenty to do out there including environmental restoration positions he said. Coal jobs are not going to come back. There may be a little surge in them but not much. It's technology or mechanization that's cost most of the jobs this past century in the coal industry. And now of course it's coal's inability to compete with natural gas on price for power generation. The market conditions are what's causing the coal industry to decline and there's not much the President can do to reverse that trend. Trump has proposed massive cuts at the EPA which Whitman believes is going to imperil its mission going forward. The EPA can't survive with 31 cuts to the budget she said. That's going to really make it impossible for the agency to continue its mission which is to protect public health and the environment.	True	True	False	True	False
His environmental policy record in his home state is long. In 2015 he ordered Washingtons Department of Ecology to impose a cap on carbon emissions. He created a fund for clean energy and the state now has extensive solar energy infrastructure and electric buses. While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels Washington had the highest G.D.P. growth in the nation in 2018 according to the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis. Mr. Inslee also tried unsuccessfully last year to get the Washington Legislature to vote on a carbon tax which would have been the first in the nation voters rejected the proposal in November. He then proposed a different series of actions including running the states electric utilities fully on renewable power by 2045 requiring buildings to be more energy efficient promoting electric vehicles and cutting down on hydrofluorocarbons which are used in air conditioners. Hydrofluorocarbon emissions have been growing faster than any other form of greenhouse gas emissions. In an op ed in The Washington Post Mr. Inslee called for net zero carbon emissions nationwide by 2050 a longer timeline than the Green New Deals 10 years which experts say is unrealistic. Net zero could mean either eliminating carbon emissions altogether or reducing them and using offsetting technologies to cancel out the rest. He also called for a 100 percent clean energy grid and massive investments to transition buildings industries and transportation to renewable sources. While Mr. Inslee has made clear that he intends to focus overwhelmingly on climate change he is on the record supporting liberal policies in many other areas. He has been outspoken in favor of gun control and after the shooting in Parkland Fla. last year he confronted President Trump on live television denouncing Mr. Trumps suggestion to arm schoolteachers. Among other measures he wants to expand background checks and restrict some semiautomatic weapons. His advocacy on the issue goes back many years he lost his seat in Congress after voting for the 1994 assault weapons ban.	True	False	False	True	True
The study by a team of geographers and archaeologists from UCL and King's College London published in Nature Communications suggests that early pastoralists in North Africa combined detailed knowledge of the environment with newly domesticated species to deal with the long term drying trend. It is thought that early pastoralists in North Africa developed intricate ways to efficiently manage sparse vegetation and relatively dry and low fertility soils. Dr. Chris Brierley UCL Geography lead author said The possibility that humans could have had a stabilising influence on the environment has significant implications. We contest the common narrative that past human environment interactions must always be one of over exploitation and degradation. The fact that societies practising 'pastoralism' persisted in this region for so long and invested both economically and ideologically in the local landscape does not support the scenario of over exploitation. Our study shows that increasing human population and sustainable pastoralism did not accelerateand may even have delayedthe decline of the 'Green Sahara'. Around 8000 years ago the Sahara wasn't desert but instead was a vibrant ecosystem that supported hunter gatherers and fisherfolk. The 'Green Sahara' the colloquial term for the African Humid Period was the period in which North Africa became much wetter than it is today thanks to a series of monsoons. As the Earth's orbit slowly changed the rain started to reduce and the vegetation started to die back. Around 5500 years ago the ecosystem in the Sahara went into a terminal decline towards the desert we have today. Pastoralism nomadic or semi nomadic cattle herders blossomed in the Sahara from around 1000 years before that collapse. Previous studies have put the blame for the collapse of the 'Green Sahara' onto these nomads who have often been marginalised in history but this latest studies dispels that myth. The study uses a novel climate vegetation model to determine whether the end of the African Humid Period occurred earlier than expected. The model keeps track of variables such as vegetation and rainfall and other processes such as the amount of energy coming from the sun and the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. The model found that the 'Green Sahara' should have collapsed earlier than it did. This suggests that pastoralists lasted longer than expected and the techniques they used helped them to adapt to the environmental changes. Dr. Brierley added Those places where pastoralists last longer are where there are more resources. It's a good adaptation to the climate change taking place at the time. There is now work today looking at what we can learn from nomadic pastoralists such as selective grazing strategies which can be applied to sustainable adaption to desertification that we expect from future climate change. Dr. Katie Manning King's College London concluded Despite the largely inhospitable conditions of the Sahara today it is not hard to find evidence of human occupation from the last 11000 years. Thousands of rock art sites illustrate a lush environment large game hunting and livestock herding. The spread of domestic animals across the Sahara occurred at a time of increasing climatic instability and yet these pastoralist populations thrived. It is likely that strategies used by contemporary traditional herders such as seasonal movement and selective grazing were also used by these early pastoralists helping to maintain an otherwise deteriorating ecosystem. Explore further Did humans create the Sahara Desert?	False	True	False	True	True
Freshman Democrat Alexandria Ocasio Cortez has some lofty goals for herself and for America with the benefits definitelymore geared to benefit her. Meanwhile her plans for us are incredibly costly and not just because shes pushing a failed economic system for us to operate under. Ocasio Cortezs Green New Deal as Fox News highlighted on Tuesday is unprecedentedly expensive. The plan involves completely removing any and all uses of fossil fuels within America and moving to 100 percent renewable energy. The New York Democrat says the plan will take ten years. The cost of this ten year plan?7 trillion. As Ive highlighted previously the plan is beyond bad. Not onlywould it indebt us to Russia and China who hold the vast majority of the rare earth materials needed to build the tidal wave of renewable energy devices wed need to keep up with the nations energy needs but the wind farms tidal generators and solar farms have proven to be more deadly to the environment than oil spills. Hundreds of thousands of birds many of them protected species die at the hands of wind turbines yearly. Tidal generators beach whales with such frequency that if it were a Republican backed project environmental groups would be having conniptionfits and endless marches. Still Ocasio Cortez believes that if this plan gets put into action itll solve every problem under the sun including racism and bigotry. Whats more the young democratic socialist proclaims that if we dont do it then were all going to die in 12 years. When pie in the sky thinking meets end of times conspiracy theories we get something like this. A scenario where were all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed. All we have to do is give up our common sense.	False	True	False	True	False
The last time Californian climate scientist Peter Kalmus was on an airplane was in 2012 He says it made him feel physically sick and like he was stealing from his children's future and vowed never to fly again. US President Donald Trump's administration has made no secret of its disdain for climate science but that hasn't stopped some ordinary Americans from finding ways to drastically reduce their own carbon footprints hoping to persuade others through their examples. Kalmus was pursuing his post doctoral studies in 2009 when he became increasingly concerned about the prospect of climate breakdown tipping points such as the thawing of the Earth's permafrost triggering runaway global warming that wreaks havoc on weather systems. I was shaking people by the lapels posting screeds on Facebook not really getting anywhere he told AFP in an interview from his home in a Los Angeles suburb. Eventually it dawned on me that I should maybe bring my actions into alignment with my beliefs. Drawing upon his expertise as a scientist he calculated the emissions associated with various aspects of his life and was surprised to learn that electricity consumption made up a tiny portion compared to air travel. So I started focusing on flying less. I tried being a vegetarian for a month and I liked it better he said quickly realizing that rather than feeling like sacrifices the changes he made were improving his sense of wellbeing. Some people like Tarek Maassarani take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes. The bespectacled 40 year old with long blond hair does paid consulting for the United States Institute of Peace and is an adjunct professor at two Washington universities but performs the bulk of his work in the volunteer sector. Two years ago he moved out of a co housing community in a Washington suburb when his two sons shifted to Utah to live with their mother and has been living between friends' houses ever since. Apart from relying almost exclusively on his bicycle for transport including deep into winter Maassarani is focused on avoiding buying new products because of the energy intensive nature of their production. He instead depends on hand me downs and I sort of extend the life of things well past what most people would do finding ways to keep tatty decade old cell phones and laptops going. He gets much of his food from dumpster diving or from the leftovers at buffets from conferences he attends describing himself as a supply and demand vegan. What this means is I don't buy any animal products I try not to create any demand signal for animal products he said. At the same time if meat is all that is left when he rummages through garbage or approaches buffets he makes it a point to go last he will consume it. Maassarani is quick to admit that his case falls well outside what most people could envisage and is made possible only by living in what he calls a consumption excessive society. I'm aware of course that if the excesses weren't there it wouldn't work but then again the problem wouldn't be there. Others like Elizabeth Hogan lead more conventional lives but are still re orienting themselves toward more carbon neutrality. Hogan who works as a consultant on mitigating the impact of ocean plastics on marine life just outfitted solar panels on the roof of her home in Washington. She and her husband estimate these will account for 80 percent of their energy needs with the balance coming from wind power bought at a premium from their electric provider. Both of our careers are very planet oriented so it's kind of our whole lives but I am certainly not claiming to be perfect she says conceding that they both fly extensively for work. Her love of cheese means she's a vegetarian rather than a vegan but sources her dairy from a nearby local farm that cleans and re uses glass bottles returned to them. But how impactful can individual action be in the absence of systemic changes from the top? After all the United States' current climate commitments are rated by Climate Action Tracker as critically insufficient in meeting the goal of limiting long term warming to two degrees Celsius above pre industrial levels. Kalmus who has written a book on his experiences said meeting critical goals to avert disaster will require a rapid cultural transformation and acts of individual defiance help achieve that. The reason everyone's waking up is because there's been this massive grassroots shift over the last year or two he said citing the global youth movement for climate action. One of the many ways people can contribute to that movement is by telling others about steps they have personally taken then when you say 'this is really urgent' your words are backed by the truth of your actions. Vegan is the new vegetarianwhy supermarkets need to go 'plant based' to help save the planet This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research no part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is provided for information purposes only.	True	True	False	False	True
Newly released emails show senior Environmental Protection Agency officials working closely with a conservative group that dismisses climate change to rally like minded people for public hearings on science and global warming counter negative news coverage and tout Scott Pruitts stewardship of the agency. John Konkus EPAs deputy associate administrator for public affairs repeatedly reached out to senior staffers at the Heartland Institute according to the emails. If you send a list we will make sure an invitation is sent Konkus wrote to the then Heartland president Joseph Bast in May 2017 seeking suggestions on scientists and economists the EPA could invite to an annual EPA public hearing on the agencys science standards. Follow up emails show Konkus and the Heartland Institute mustering scores of potential invitees known for rejecting scientific warnings of human caused climate change including from groups such as Plants Need CO2 The Right Climate Stuff and Junk Science. The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency especially when it comes to climate changing carbon emissions. They were obtained by the Environmental Defence Fund and the Southern Environmental Law Centre which sued to enforce a Freedom of Information request. The EPA maintains close working relationships with a broad range of public and private groups and Heartland is just one of many the agency engages with to ensure the public is informed said the EPA spokesman Lincoln Ferguson. It demonstrates the agencys dedication to advancing President Trumps agenda of environmental stewardship and regulatory certainty he said. The public hearing referred to in the May 2017 email was cancelled when the EPA official who runs it fell ill the EPA said. But Bast contended in an email sent to EPA staffers and others that the official called off the hearing after learning that climate change sceptics planned to attend. The Heartland Institute calls itself a leading free market thinktank. It rejects decades of science saying fossil fuel emissions are altering the climate and says on its website that curbing use of petroleum and coal to fight climate change would squander one of Americas greatest comparative advantages among the worlds nations. Of course The Heartland Institute has been working with EPA on policy and personnel decisions Tim Huelskamp a former Kansas Republican congressman who now leads the group said in a statement. They recognised us as the pre eminent organisation opposing the radical climate alarmism agenda and instead promoting sound science and policy Huelskamp wrote. He said Heartland would continue to help Pruitt and his staff. Ferguson said Pruitt and his top officials had also met with groups known for their campaigns against climate changing emissions and pollutants from fossil fuels including the Moms Clean Air Force the American Lung Association and others. But Ben Levitan of the Environmental Defence Fund said mainstream climate change groups have received nothing like the outreach and invitations that Heartland and other hard right groups have been getting. Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a not for profit group promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform. An email last February shows Bast forwarded to followers an email with the line From the White House rallying activists to public hearings the EPA was then holding around the country on repealing an Obama era power plan meant to curb fossil fuel emissions. The email is signed by a Pruitt political appointee and gives the name of another EPA official for activists to call. Its not clear from the email however who initiated the attempt to rally conservatives for the public hearing. The Washington Post reported in September that Konkus had been scrutinising grant applications for mentions of climate change which he reportedly calls the double C word. Emails show he and former EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman repeatedly reached out to Heartland to talk over critical coverage by the Post. Lakely the Heartland spokesman responded that he had shared the article with colleagues asking them to jump to your aide sic and defend this position. And an email from Bast shared with EPA staffers and others shows the then Heartland president celebrating news that a reporter Justin Gillis was leaving the New York Times. Ding Dong the Witch is Dead. Still waiting for Chris Mooney and Juliet Eilperin at the WaPo and Seth Borenstein at AP to flame out Bast writes.	True	False	False	True	True
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke suggested that climate change may have a role in the recent wildfires that have ravaged California. When asked by CBS News reporter Weijia Jiang whether he accepted that climate change was part of the problem Zinke said of course. He also acknowledged that temperatures are rising. However Zinke also reiterated an argument that he made earlier this week blaming environmental groups for preventing dead trees from being cleared due to their opposition to the logging industry. The only endangered species happens to be a logger Zinke said. Earlier this week Zinke blamed environmental terrorist groups for California's destructive wildfires in an interview with Breitbart Radio. We have been held hostage by these environmental terrorist groups that have not allowed public access that have refused to allow the harvest of timber Zinke told Breitbart Monday. On Sunday Zinke said that the wildfires had nothing to do with climate change in an interview with local news station KCRA TV. He suggested that environmental groups had prevented timber salvage operations meaning that forests could not be cleared of flammable detritus. I've heard the climate change argument back and forth. This has nothing to do with climate change. This has to do with active forest management Zinke said. President Trump tweeted earlier in August that California wildfires were made so much worse by bad environmental laws and called for clearing trees to prevent fires. The Mendocino Complex Fire north of San Francisco is the largest wildfire in state history and has scorched over 400 square miles. More than 14000 firefighters are responding to over a dozen major blazes throughout California.	True	False	False	False	False
US crude oil and petrochemical refining capacity in Texas has been severely damaged by Hurricane Harvey releasing hazardous pollutants into the air and flood waters left in the wake of the storm. Arkema a global chemical major warned Wednesday that flooding has severely damaged their Houston plant's refrigeration systems increasing the likelihood of an explosion in the coming week and a heightened risk of yet more pollutants leaking into the ecosystem. At this time while we do not believe there is any imminent danger the potential for a chemical reaction leading to a fire andor explosion within the site confines is real Arkema said in a statement. Oil giant Exxon Mobil is among the companies to report incidents of emissions released at its refineries as a result of the hurricane which ransacked coastal parts of Texas and caused widespread flooding in the countrys fourth biggest city Houston. However the true extent of the air pollution will prove hard to determine for some time after the storm subsides as The Texas Council on Environmental Quality shut down all of its air quality monitors in the Houston area according to the Houston Press. This effectively means the affected companies can report whatever they wish without any oversight from the state regulators. Texas is also home to several so called superfund sites designated areas of extreme pollution which warrant further investigation according to the Environmental Protection Agency. As shown in the before and after maps below the vast majority of these toxic sites are now flooded in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey. On Wednesday Saudi owned Motiva shuttered its refinery in Port Arthur Texas the largest facility in the US which normally produces 600000 barrels a day. At least 13 other refineries in the area closed as a result of Harvey the US Department of Energy reported while others are operating at limited capacity. Exxon admitted there were issues at its plants in a regulatory filing to the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality. Its Baytown refinery near Houston the second largest in the country was shutdown on Sunday as Harvey moved inland. The refinery reported two controlled emission release events which included carbon monoxide nitrogen oxides sulfur dioxide and benzene being released into the atmosphere. The chemicals and pollutants released from refineries and plants in Texas petrochemical hub are known to have a damaging effect on the environment and could pose a risk of contaminating floodwaters left in the hurricanes wake. The petrochemical Benzene a carcinogen and major component in fossil fuels reduces red and white blood cell production and decreases auto immune cell function following prolonged exposure. While other emissions including sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides are particle forming air pollutants that contribute to cardiopulmonary health issues like lung cancer bronchitis and emphysema. In a third reported incident since Harvey made landfall in Texas Exxon said a floating roof over a tank in its Baytown refinery sank as a result of the rain causing unusually high levels of emissions to be released. Floating roofs are common in oil tanks and are a way to control how much oil is lost to evaporation by allowing the roof to move based on the amount of liquid in the tank. Exxon said it would conduct an assessment to determine the impact of the storm once its safe to do so the Washington Post reports. The company said it needed to make repairs on the tank which would involve first emptying it though Exxon could not confirm in what time frame. One of the companys other facilities in Beaumont east of Houston also released 1300lbs of sulphur dioxide in one hour on Sunday exceeding its allocated emissions limit by a factor of ten to one. Excess emissions occurred during an upset on the Sulfur Plant Thermal Oxidizer Exxon said in the report. The unit was stabilized. No impact to the community has been reported the company said. Actions were taken to minimize emissions and to restore the refinery to normal operations. Petrochemical giant Chevron Phillips reported an estimated 776000 pounds of combined chemicals released from its Cedar Bayou plant in Baytown as part of its plant shutdown. Kinder Morgan the largest energy infrastructure company in North America stores petroleum products for companies such as Chevron and Shell at its terminal in Pasadena Harris. It reported 394000 pounds of combined hazardous chemicals on Sunday and Monday also as a result of a malfunctioning floating roof. In this case it caused product to spill to the ground. Kinder Morgan said it will attempt to safely land roof of Tank 150 39 and remove product when conditions are safe. It added it was taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment. Almost one third of US oil refining capacity is located on the Gulf Coast. The US produces about 17.5 million barrels of oil per day. According to oil market analysts cited by CNBC about 20 percent of the countrys oil refining operations are out of service. Ships carrying crude oil from the Mexican Gulf are not able to port in the area due to swelling waters caused by Harvey resulting in a backlog of ships waiting to dock and unload their cargo. The Gulf of Mexico accounts for close to 20 percent of total US crude oil production. CNBC estimates the port closures cost roughly 350 million a day. The port hold up also affects the amount of crude oil refineries have access to once they return to full operation. Gas prices across the US have already risen to a two year high with the increase likely to hit consumers at the pump in a week. It is unknown how long the refineries will remain out of production as the extent of flood damage is not yet known. Following Hurricane Katrina in 2005 refineries in the area didnt return to normal production capacity for two months.	False	False	False	True	False
Jellyfish numbers have been increasing rapidly in the Mediterranean and one species that has long been a hazard for bathers there the mauve stinger is increasingly being seen around the British Isles. Now one marine biologist says if we can't beat them we should eat them. I'm hovering in a makeshift kitchen watching one of Italy's most eminent marine biologists gleefully playing chef. Prof Silvio Greco is focused on the bubbling contents of a large pot. Dressed up for the part in chef's whites traditional hat and red apron the sustainable conservation expert is perfect for the role. In this water I have put lemon juice and vinegar. After boiling for a few minutes I will plunge it into this ice he gestures explaining how the hot water both sterilises getting rid of bacteria and destroys the stinging poison. What for some might be food hell has got my tastebuds jumping with curious excitement we're about to eat jellyfish. For Greco it's not the first time. I love seafood he beams. Jellyfish remind me of oysters. When you eat them you experience an explosion of the sea on your tongue. They are after all 90 seawater. Today he's enlisted the professional help of restaurant chef Marco Visciola who confesses he's never cooked jellyfish before. He's going to fry it in a tempura batter made of potato wheat and rice flours mixed with sparkling water. No salt? I ask. Zero he tells me. The jellyfish already has the salty flavour of the sea so to bring out its flavour I've left the batter neutral. This isn't some perverse chef's challenge but part of a campaign that Greco is promoting at the Slow Fish festival. Held every two years at Genoa's porto antico the event encourages sustainable fishing and responsible consumption. There are at least four times as many jellyfish in the Mediterranean now as there were in 2004 with global climate change pollution and overfishing mostly to blame. And the message this cooking demo is sending out is if you can't defeat them eat them. The sea is full of them and it's a big problem for biodiversity says Silvio Greco describing jellyfish as rampant opportunistic species that immediately take over any empty space in the water. He explains how their spread is devastating marine food chains and ecosystems and how illegal fishing of natural jellyfish predators like tuna and turtles has left the coast clear for them to multiply. Now man he concludes must be the new predator of jellyfish. It's an idea the UN's Food and Agriculture Organization is encouraging too. For years fishermen have been finding their nets increasingly burdened with unwanted jellyfish that they simply throw back into the sea. Silvio Greco hopes this will change and says that sustainability aside jellyfish is actually good for you rich in protein and collagen low in calories and fat free. At Slow Fish I discover the eat it to beat it approach isn't limited to the Mediterranean. There's a Caribbean delegation of fishers researchers and marine biologists here to pool ideas on how to fight their worst invasive species the lionfish. They are trying to get it on to menus from Mexico to Honduras Costa Rica to Barbados. Its tender meat which apparently tastes like snapper certainly sounds more appetising than jellyfish. But the jellyfish cooking demo is without a doubt the biggest crowd puller of the entire festival. As the tray of fresh medusa fritta is passed around eager fingers grab the piping hot morsels. I select my piece. The tempura is exquisite cracking seductively between my teeth. I'd expected the jellyfish to be chewy like calamari but it's squidgier. It might just be because I'm hungry but I really like it. A young woman exclaims it's surprisingly nice while a Taiwanese lady tells me jellyfish is a common antipasto back home and she was curious to see what the Italians would do with it. The man beside me is unimpressed. The batter's nice but the jellyfish tastes of nothing and it's slippery he grumbles. I ask a three year old what she thinks. Yummy or yucky? Yummy! she grins at me chewing happily. She was probably hungry too. Marco Visciola has also made a boiled jellyfish salad with rice vinegar sesame oil carrot and cucumber a traditional recipe a Japanese colleague gave him. Again I'm impressed although I think jellyfish's neutral taste or lack of taste could lend itself to any decisive flavours. But Marco's sold. For me it was a new experience and there were a lot of curious people he enthuses adding that he now plans to put locally caught jellyfish on his restaurant's summer menu. It's a novelty a chef can offers diners. I think it will become popular. I'm not entirely convinced. But if you never want another seaside holiday to be ruined by a coastal jellyfish invasion perhaps it really is time to stop fretting and start frying. Join the conversation find us on Facebook Instagram Snapchat and Twitter.	True	False	False	True	True
In his five months as EPA Administrator former Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt is an aggregating impeachable offense ever giving fuller meaning to Alexander Hamiltons Federalist 65 elaboration of what constitutes high crimes and misdemeanors to wit Impeachable offenses arise from the abuse or violation of some public trust and relate chiefly to injuries done immediately to the society itself. Riding into office on the back of 14 lawsuits he filed against the EPA Pruitt took his oath of office to uphold the laws of the land and promptly proceeded to do just the opposite. Using the mantra of states rights as his corporate fig leaf and wildly accusing EPA scientists of being unscientific he has moved to undo delay or otherwise block more than 30 environmental rules according to the July 1 2017 New York Times. His tenure thus far at the EPA is the stuff of corporate wish lists meeting privately with the worst industrial perpetrators of silent violence charitably described as pollution and huddling with industry lobbyists and corporate lawyers who are eager for Pruitt to dismantle his own agency the federal manager of environmental violence to air water soil and food. Mr. Pruitt makes himself vulnerable with all the ex parte contacts and corporate advisors to many serious offenses including a violation of the procedures of the Federal Advisory Committee Act b conflict of interest rules c violation of both criminal and civil laws by the overreaching industry lobbyists who constitute Pruitts tight cadre of clenched jawed political appointees. History provides precedents of how the boundless zealotry of new wrecking crews ultimately leads to self inflicted wounds and scandals. Republicans in the House of Representatives are quite familiar with trying to impeach a civil officer. For many months prior to the November election they were hounding with baseless impeachment threats John Koskinen then director of the IRS and one of the most honorable civil servants in a generation. So fervid and ill tempered was their partisan zeal that they also took it out on the IRSs budget already lower than it was several years earlier and cut it further to the bone. This fulminating vendetta widely reported has led to millions of taxpayers waiting on the phone with the IRS to get served or not be served at all. Most ironically the Republicans assured that the woefully understaffed IRS could collect even less of the estimated 350 billion in annual unpaid taxes thereby expanding the federal deficit they so often decry for political expediency. Pruitt like most captured corporatists has ignored the objections to his policies from the 15000 employees of the EPA hoping that many will leave the agency and further weaken the environmental health and safety efforts that he abhors. He doesnt want them around because he cannot rebut their scientific arguments for retaining existing standards which would protect our environment from deadly toxins. He is also hostile to the precautionary principle which shifts the burden of proof to the progenitors of new chemical or particulate or gas into the environment. When you go through the list of health standards slated for Pruitts abolition you wonder whether there are any limits to his cold blooded corporatized agenda. So extreme is his corporate ardor that there will undoubtedly be lawless actions coming from his precipitous acts which he rightly believes will not be subject to restraint from the Trump White House or the Republican controlled Congress. Pruitts fevered mind thinks like this Climate change is a hoax. Methane gas which is 40 times more harmful to global warming than carbon dioxide should not be subject to the modest Obama era required disclosures. The industries that are most responsible for pollution should be in charge of their own enforcement. The EPAs already grossly inadequate budget should be cut further. Attempts to curb pollution in our air and waterways should be revoked. Pesticides like chlorpyrifos found to be dangerous after years of study should be pushed back for reconsideration in short to be shelved. Rules on methane leaks from drilling oil and gas wells should be obstructed through delays or revision. Pruitt had a private meeting with corporate lobbyists at Trump International Hotel which is a venue for recurring violations of the Emoluments Clause due to its Trump enriching expenditures by foreign interests. Thats when you know that the officious Pruitt doesnt even care about appearances much less the perils of lawless and secretive influence peddling that enriches President Trumps investments. Members of Congress Democratic and Republican must ensure accountability for this rogue administrator. Take close note of his non compliance with the Administrative Procedure Act and keep in mind that political ideologies will not protect your children or vulnerable relatives and friends form environmental toxins. Conservative lungs and other bodily organs are as vulnerable to pollution bred terminal ailments and the violent effects of climate change as their liberal counterparts. Lets be clear about what is at issue here. Pruitt is extinguishing life saving and disease preventing health standards that were vetted in open procedures that were open to input by the commercial interested affected which usually leads to diluting the final regulation and which have solid scientific basis to protect vulnerable populations. Consequently Pruitts rollbacks suspensions or delays if allowed to persist and expand will lead loss and deprivation of American lives including children the future of our country thereby increasing healthcare costs family anguish and other disruptions of life liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Pruitt and his cohorts are a clear and present danger to America. He will demonstrate in the coming weeks and months how deserving he is of impeachment in the House of Representatives and conviction in the U.S. Senate. That is if he doesnt resign or be forced to resign due to his own cruelty recklessness and running afoul of the law.	False	False	True	True	False
Lawsuits are a poor way to make the tradeoff between abundant energy and environmental harm. Numerous jurisdictions are suing energy companies. Not for fraud or white collar crime but for the effects of climate change. Bill de Blasio mayor of New York recently added his city to the list and also started to divest the citys pension funds from fossil fuel companies. But the phenomenon is primarily a California centric one. In an address at SXSW earlier this month even Arnold Schwarzenegger joined the fray. Presumably this will soon be a cause clbre. But it is unlikely to succeed and lawsuits are a poor way to address the environmental harms of energy production anyhow. As David Bookbinder at the Niskanen Center notes while all of the complaints are grounded in the energy companies alleged accountability for rising sea levels they fall into two essential categories. San Francisco and Oakland allege public nuisance and are suing to win compensation for that nuisance. This is the usual category for environmental harm suits the same legal theory by which localities have sued over lead pollution water pollution and the like. It was also the basis for the successful legal action taken against lead paint producers in the same area. According to Bookbinder the claim simply requires demonstrating that the defendant contributed to a condition that constitutes an unreasonable interference with public rights. The other plaintiffs namely San Mateo County Marin County and Imperial Beach are employing a much more scattershot strategy not only in the number of defendants that they name nearly 40 but in alleging design defect failure to warn negligence and trespass in addition to public nuisance. This approach gives juries multiple routes to a ruling against the energy companies but it could backfire with so many claims being made against such a wide variety of defendants that none of the blows really land. So whats the problem? The Union of Concerned Scientists the activist group that has spearheaded this push for legal action has compared energy companies behavior with that of tobacco companies decades ago. The comparison reveals two fundamental issues with the suits. First unlike smoking energy is a basic good. Some form of energy is necessary to do just about anything including to meet essential needs such as heating or cooling a home which in some places is a genuine safety issue. There is an inherent tradeoff between affordable energy and environmental harm and it makes no sense to ask judges and juries rather than elected legislators to strike the right balance. Second a key allegation against cigarette companies was that they hid and denied the harms of smoking but the parallel allegations against the energy companies are contradictory. We are expected to believe that energy companies covered up the damage done by fossil fuels and yet publicly available industry funded research is cited as evidence that the companies were aware of the harms they were causing. For instance San Mateo Countys lawsuit notes that Exxon made its climate findings public in peer reviewed science journals by 1982. Another obstacle is the fact that energy companies have government granted permits to do what they do a fact that some courts have found highly relevant. In North Carolina v. Tennessee Valley Authority the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit dismissed a common law nuisance action on the grounds that there is a distinction between an activity that is merely not illegal versus one that is explicitly granted a permit to operate in a particular fashion. The opinion further notes citing New England Legal Foundation v. Costle that courts traditionally have been reluctant to enjoin as a public nuisance activities which have been considered and specifically authorized by the government. Local lawsuits also struggle to address the global scope of the climate change problem. According to a study that is often drawn upon to make the case for liability the two largest contributors to the rise in CO2 emissions since 1980 are Saudi Aramco and Gazprom the state owned oil companies of Saudi Arabia and Russia. The initial San Mateo suit did name Statoil a company majority owned by the Norwegian government as a defendant but even this was dropped in an effort to keep the case in state as opposed to federal court. As the eminent legal scholar Richard Epstein puts it If youre going to need a system of regulation you can do that in a thousand different ways but erratic independent lawsuits in separate courts by separate people is the wrong way to go. This approach is likely to cause backlash that derails real sustainable reforms to protect the environment.	True	True	True	True	True
Environmental concerns are real but the planet still will be here in twelve years. Imagine theres a movie about a meteor heading toward Earth. It will be here in twelve years. Following Hollywood convention once you got past the part where the maverick scientist or precocious kid discovering it struggles to convince the world about the threat youd expect the president or the military to leap into action. Congress is usually left out of such plots but its not a stretch to imagine that Congress would race to authorize a plan to send astronauts into space to prevent Armageddon or a planetary deep impact. If you dont believe me I refer you to the movies Armageddon and Deep Impact. The initial rollout of the Green New Deal a sweeping proposal to overhaul the U.S. economy and taken seriously society itself was supposed to follow a script like this. The United Nations opened the bidding by announcing last year that we had twelve years to keep the pace of climate change from accelerating too fast to contain the damage. Like a high school game of telephone this quickly became a blanket statement that we have twelve years to save the planet. Climate change is a real concern but if we did absolutely nothing to stop it the planet would still be here in a dozen years. So would the human race and many other living things. In fact if America did virtually everything the Green New Dealers propose global emissions of greenhouse gases wouldnt change that much unless China India Russia and all the African nations followed suit. There are people who nonetheless believe that climate change is a world threatening calamity and that exaggeration is a necessary tool to galvanize public opinion. If you Google the phrase twelve years to save the planet youll find people who think its literally true. The problem is that weve heard these things before. In 1989 a U.N. official predicted entire nations could be wiped off the face of the Earth by rising sea levels if the global warming trend is not reversed by the year 2000. In 2008 Al Gore warned that the northern polar ice cap could be gone in five years. Melting polar ice is something to worry about but its not gone. The reasons this is a political problem for climate change warriors should be obvious. First they are their own worst enemy when it comes to maintaining credibility. By working on the theory that they have to scare the bejeebus out of the public they made it easy for people to dismiss them when their Chicken Little prophecies didnt materialize. Another problem which compounds the first is that they get greedy. Working on the premise that a crisis is a terrible thing to waste progressives have a long record of trying to throw other items on their wish list into the anti climate change shopping cart. The Green New Deal as presented by Representative Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D. N.Y. includes high quality health care for everyone guaranteed jobs paid vacations a living wage and retirement security. Indeed its worth remembering that environmentalists targeted the fossil fuel industry for early retirement long before concerns about global warming were on the agenda. The anti oil campaign began with the Santa Barbara oil spill in 1969 back when concerns about another ice age were still taken seriously. You can believe that climate change is a real problem and also be forgiven for thinking progressives are trying to pull a fast one. This is especially so when you consider that proponents of the GND also favor phasing out nuclear power which could provide vastly more electricity than wind or solar and more efficiently. Which gets me back to where I started. Imagine there was a movie about an incoming meteor that could be stopped only with a nuclear warhead and the heroes insisted that nuclear weapons are just too icky to use even to save the planet. Audiences would scratch their heads. They might also think they missed a crucial plot point if the protagonists proposed a sweeping government effort to stop the meteor and then when given the opportunity to vote for it voted present in protest. Thats similar to what happened this week. Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell brought the Green New Deal to the floor for a vote and Democrats refused to vote for it. Instead they harangued McConnell for pulling a stunt. They were right. It was a stunt. But sometimes it takes a stunt to expose an even bigger one.	True	True	True	True	False
A federal judge blocked construction on the Keystone XL pipeline on Thursday. In a 54 page decision Judge Brian Morris of the U.S. District Court in Montana granted an injunction to the Indigenous Environmental Network and Northern Plains Resource Council against the U.S. State Department the TransCanada Keystone Pipeline and the TransCanada Corporation. TransCanada is blocked from engaging in any activity in furtherance of the construction or operation of Keystone and associated facilities until the State Department can confirm that doing so would not violate the Administrative Procedure Act or the National Environmental Policy Act. Morris had ruled in August that the State Department had to reach a conclusion on the environmental impacts of the pipeline but determined Thursday that the departments analysis had left out information he considered to be crucial.He also accused the State Department of usingoutdated information about potential environmental impacts instead ofthe best scientific and commercial data available. These omissions require a remand with instructions to the Department to satisfy its obligations under NEPA Morris wrote. In its initial report the State Department had said that any climate related impacts from the pipeline would prove inconsequential. However Morris argued that the department had not given areasoned explanation for how it came to this conclusion. TransCanada has claimed that the pipeline would result in few oil spills by decreasing the amount of oil being transported by rail and lower greenhouse gas emissions by lowering the amount of oil being transported by ocean tanker. If constructed the Keystone XL Pipeline would stretch from Hardisty Alberta to Nebraska where it would connect to an existing pipeline going to the Gulf Coast. In November 2015 former President Barack Obamas administration blocked the pipelines construction citing potential environmental impact. Two days after taking office President Donald Trump signed an executive order reauthorizing the pipeline.	False	False	False	True	False
Donald Trump is threatening to derail climate change efforts with his persistent denial of global warming claim scientists. Pulling the US from the Paris Agreement has opened the flood gates as several others including Russia and Turkey follow his lead. Trump removed the US the second greatest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the world from the Paris Agreement as one of his first major presidential acts. One expert has published a study and said that the withdrawal of the US from the 2015 Paris Agreement as well as Trump's ill informed remarks on climate change could have long lasting and severe ramifications. AUnited Nations sponsored climate summit in Poland has kicked off today which brings together experts from around the world as leading figures in the UN claim our planet has reached a 'crossroads'. They say the next two years are crucial to our success if we are to successfully halt global warming. A study fromthe Institute of International and European Affairs says Trump's decision has created the 'moral and political cover for others to follow suit' in leaving the agreement. It also claims it has soured the atmosphere and damaged goodwill in the international arena. 'The Paris agreement sent a shiver down the spine of institutional investors globally and made them question if they were exposed to stranded assets and whether these political leaders were really serious about climate change' saidJoseph Curtin a senior fellow at the IIEA. 'There's absolutely no doubt that the Trump effect has created a sense of uncertainty in terms of the political commitment to achieve anything close to a 2C target.' The Paris Agreement which was first signed in 2015 is an international agreement to control and limit climate change. It hopes to hold the increase in the global average temperature to below 2C 3.6F 'and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C 2.7F' Sir David Attenborough will be in attendance in the 'people's seat' to represent the people who are affected by global warming. He gave a speech at the opening ceremony of the summit and said We are facing a man made disaster of global scale. 'Our greatest threat in thousands of years. Climate Change.' The Conference of the Parties COP comes shortly after the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC announced the intention to limitglobal temperature rise to 1.5C. This gathering has been pegged as the most influential since the 2015 ratification of the Paris Agreement. It claimed that to achieve this goal governments around the worldwould have to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 45 per cent by 2030. Four influential previous presidents of the talks called for decisive action to reach these targets. They said the planet sits at a 'crossroads' and urged action to cut emissions and reach Paris targets. Antonio Guterres UN Secretary General said this period of time is'a matter of life and death' for countries around the world. A statement from the former chiefs came a day before the summit was scheduled to begin and is a highly unusual move. It earmarked the next two years as a key opportunity to help halt climate change. It read 'What ministers and other leaders say and do in Katowice at COP24 will help determine efforts for years to come and either bring the world closer to meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement including protecting those most vulnerable to climate change or push action further down the road. 'Any delay will only make it harder and more expensive to respond to climate change.' The statement was issued by Frank Bainimarama of Fiji Salaheddine Mezouar of Morocco Laurent Fabius of France and Manuel Pulgar Vidal of Peru. In a report released ahead of the climate summit in Poland the World Meteorological Organisation WMO pointed out that the 20 warmest years on record have been in the past 22 years. It found that 2018 is on course to be the 4th warmest year on record and we're the 'last generation to be able to do something about it'. The UN agency said in its provisional report that 'the past four years 2015 2016 2017 and 2018 are also the four warmest years in the series'.	True	False	False	True	True
The Trump administration spent time last year mulling over what its public position on climate science should be and according to a report published Wednesday by The Washington Post outrightly ignoring new research was one option that officials considered. Citing an internal memo drafted in September by President Donald Trumps then top energy and environmental aide Michael Catanzaro the Post reported that White House officials had discussed whether to consider having a firm position on and a coherent fact based message about climate science specifically whether and to what extent anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases are affecting the climate system and what level of concern that warrants. Three options were reportedly presented in the memo The first was to conduct red teamblue teamdebates to highlight uncertainties in climate data the second was to review scientific studies under the Administrative Procedure Act and the final option was to simply ignore and not seek to characterize or question the science being conducted by Federal agencies and outside entities. No formal policy ever did materialize from the memo or subsequent discussions on the issue. Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt was reportedly an advocate of holding red teamblue teamdebates to publicly critique climate science but that idea wasultimately blocked by the White House reported The New York Times in March. As the Post noted the Catanzaro memo offers a glimpse into the challenges faced by the Trump administration on the issue of climate change.While White House officials continue to publicly downplay climate data and adopt policies to expand fossil fuel production in the U.S. federal agencies have continued to publish research showing that climate change is real man made and a growing threat to the U.S. On Friday for instance the National Park Service published a report that said the effects of climate change like rising sea levels and intensifying stormscould damage park sites across the country. The reports lead researcher had earlier accused the Trump administration of attempting to censor the study by removing all mentions of human caused climate change. Ignoring the overwhelming evidence only sets us back further in addressing this serious threat said Sen. Jeanne Shaheen D N.H.. Ignore distort or censor. Those are the options the Trump White House is considering to deal with the overwhelming consensus on climate change. Unacceptable and immoral. We need a vision and a plan to not willful ignorance. Senator Jeff Merkley May 24 2018	False	True	False	True	True
Last week a federal judgedismissedNew York Citys climate change lawsuit against five major oil companies. Last month another federal judgedismissedsimilar global warming claims against oil firms brought by San Francisco and Oakland. More than a dozen climate lawsuits filed during the last year by cities and counties seek billions of dollars in damages from oil and gas companies. But it appears that all of these lawsuits will eventually be thrown out. New York Citysoughtmonetary damages from BP Chevron Conoco Phillips ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell as compensation for damage caused by dangerous global warming allegedly caused by the companies. But John F. Keenan District Court judge for the Southern District of New York disagreed and dismissed the complaint. Judge Keenanruledthat it would thus be illogical to allow the City to bring state law claims when courts have found that these matters are areas of federal concern that have been delegated to the Executive Branch as they require a uniform national solutionGlobal warming and solutions thereto must be addressed by the other two branches of government. On June 25 on the west coast US District Judge William Alsupthrewout similar suits brought by the California cities of Oakland and San Francisco. Judge Alsup stated it is true that carbon dioxide released from fossil fuels has caused and will continue to cause global warming. But against that negative we must weigh this positive Our industrial revolution and the development of our modern world have literally been fueled by oil and coal. Without those fuels virtually all of our monumental progress would have been impossible. Judge Alsup concluded that the courts should defer to the legislative and executive branches. Note that Judge Alsup is not a conservative judge. Alsup was nominated by President Bill Clinton in 1999. In January he blocked Trump Administration efforts to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals DACA program. Several other climate lawsuits arependingin California. In July of last year San Mateo County Marin County and Imperial Beach filed separate suits against 37 oil and gas companies in California Superior Court. Last December Santa Cruz and Santa Cruz County also brought suits in California Superior Court against 29 companies. In January the City of Richmond California and the County of Contra Costa also filed claims against 29 companies. Other state entities alsoinitiatedlegal action this year. In April the city of Boulder Boulder County and San Miguel County filed a suit in Colorado against Exxon and Suncor. In May King County Washington the home of Seattle filed suit against five companies. Just this month the state of Rhode Island and the City of Baltimore filed separate climate change suits against oil and gas companies. But all of these suits are likely to be thrown out. The New York City and the OaklandSan Francisco suits the lawsuits with the highest profile have now been dismissed. As Judge Alsupnotedin his opinion No plaintiff has ever succeeded in bringing a nuisance claim based on global warming. All district or appellate courts are likely to eventually rule that climate change issues are to be decided by the federal government not state and local governments. Its clear that climate lawsuits do notreflectthe will of congressional representatives elected by the American people. In December of 1998 President Bill Clinton signed the Kyoto Protocol a 1997 international treaty signed by 192 nations committing to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But the US Senate passed a resolution of disapproval with a vote of 95 0 so the treaty was never submitted to the Senate for ratification. Cap and trade legislation was rejected by Congress in 2003 2005 2007 and 2009. Last week the US House of Representativespasseda resolution opposing a carbon tax. While advocates of climate common sense are pleased with the recent court decisions the acceptance that humans are causing dangerous climate change by the oil and gas defendants is very disappointing. Evidenceshowsthat natural factors not emissions from industry dominate global temperatures. Nor are the feared climate disasters happening. Evidenceshowsthat storms droughts or floods are neither more frequent nor more severe than in past decades. Oceans are rising 7 8 inches per century not the 20 feet per centurypredictedby former Vice President Al Gore and others. And the polar bears are doing just fine. A simple example is the question of snow extent. The Boulder Colorado lawsuitallegesthat warming caused by oil companies is reducing the snowpack in Colorado mountains. While some areas have received less snow satellite data from the Rutgers University Global Snow labshowsthat both North American and Northern Hemisphere snow extent has been increasing for the last 40 years. Like most efforts to fight climate change climate lawsuits are a massive waste of taxpayer money. Cities counties and states are spending millions of dollars on futile public nuisance lawsuits that are doomed to failure. SteveGorehamis a speaker on the environment business and public policy and author of thebookOutside the Green Box Rethinking Sustainable Development. The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	True	True	False	True	False
Washington CNN Since the Trump administration released its blockbuster report on the day after Thanksgiving outlining the dire environmental and economic impacts of climate change it has made a series of policy and diplomatic decisions or statements that appear to run counter to all of the warnings in the report. In fact none are designed to reduce fossil fuel emissions which the report said is needed to combat extreme climate change which otherwise will cause substantial damages to the US economy environment and human health and well being over the coming decades. President Donald Trump who previously has called climate change a hoax has rejected the report's conclusion that climate change could be devastating for the economy saying I don't believe it. Here's what the administration has said and done since Thanksgiving EPA acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler said the carbon capture technology required by the Obama era made constructing new power plants too expensive. But the decline of coal for power plants has been a long term trend regardless as the energy industry has moved to less expensive sources such as natural gas. Environmentalists worry the proposed rule suggests the EPA will set new standards that would weaken the requirements that the agency uses to regulate other types of pollution. The administration may be trying to lower the bar significantly for future new sources of pollution that the EPA tries to regulate said Mary Anne Hitt senior director of the Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign. Sides with Russia Saudi Arabia and Kuwait at climate conference Considering Trump announced the US would walk away from the Paris climate agreement which brought together the rest of the world it's no surprise the US continues to be an outlier on the international stage. Countries were asked to welcome the report put out by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change which says governments around the world must take rapid far reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society to avoid disastrous levels of global warming. The US and the three other nations sided against welcoming the measure. The United States was willing to note the report and express appreciation to the scientists who developed it but not to welcome it as that would denote endorsement of the report the State Department said in a statement. As we have made clear in the IPCC and other bodies the United States has not endorsed the findings of the report it added. At the recent G20 meeting in Argentina which came just days after the release of that dire climate report US diplomats insisted on noting that the US reaffirmed its intention to withdraw from the Paris accord. A clause in a communique signed by the member nations says the US reiterates its decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and affirms its strong commitment to economic growth and energy access and security utilizing all energy sources and technologies while protecting the environment. When the US Geological Survey last week announced a major discovery of oil and natural gas underneath Texas and New Mexico Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke called it a gift. Christmas came a few weeks early this year he said. American strength flows from American energy and as it turns out we have a lot of American energy. Zinke's position involves the dual and sometimes competing roles of overseeing leases to develop resources such as oil natural gas and minerals and preserving federal lands for wildlife and human recreational uses. The Interior Department proposed to cut protections that benefited the sage grouse a grassland bird that lives in the Great Plains and western states which could allow for expanded oil and drilling. The plan would remove protections on nearly 9 million acres of protected habitat. The oil industry says any impacts minimal because of improved technology and more limited footprint needed for exploration.	True	False	False	True	False
The Trump administration has proposed changes to the Endangered Species Act ESA a law credited with keeping hundreds of species from going extinct. The change would eliminate automatic protections for threatened plant and animal species and make it easier for species to be removed from the list. Wildlife conservation groups say the proposed change could have disastrous lasting effects on at risk species. Trump officials say the change will streamline the regulatory process. The proposed change is the latest in a series of White House efforts to remove environmental regulations designed to protect vulnerable species and their habitats as well as leave untouched some of America's most wild places. Environmentalist groups have reacted with outrage and the Center for Biological Diversity said these proposals would slam a wrecking ball into the most crucial protections for our most endangered wildlife. If these regulations had been in place in the 1970s the bald eagle and the grey whale would be extinct today. The Endangered Species Act was signed into law in 1973 by Republican President Richard Nixon and now protects more than 1200 plant and animal species. The list of species is maintained by US Fish and Wildlife and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration which oversees marine species. It has been credited with reviving bald eagle populations and bringing the Yellowstone grizzly bear back from the edge of extinction. Here are several species that could be affected by the change or may not currently exist if it was not for the landmark law. Experts agree that arctic sea ice which polar bears require for fishing and hunting is shrinking which is leading to enormous stresses on the world's largest bear species. The proposed change to the ESA includes a narrowing of the definition of foreseeable future. The US government says they want the language clarified to make it clear that it extends only as far as wildlife officials can reasonably determine that both the future threats and the species' response to those threats are probable. Environmentalists fear the new language will make it possible for government biologists to disregard the long term effects of climate change on the environment. The polar bear could be emblematic of many species being affected by climate change says Bob Dreher of the environmental group Defenders of Wildlife. Whether government biologists will recognise this slow acting but inevitable change in ecosystem because of climate change or wait until more evidence is available is unclear he tells the BBC. The ESA provides blanket protections to species which are categorised as either threatened such as the California gnatcatcher or endangered. Endangered species are those likely to go extinct while threatened species are those likely to become endangered. Under current law both are granted critical habitat protections but the Trump administration wants automatic protections for threatened species to be eliminated and in the future to be considered on a case by case basis. Protections for the California gnatcatcher have barred development across nearly 100000 acres of land in the Greater Los Angeles area according to the Los Angeles Times. If not for their current protections their native habitat would likely become part of more urban sprawl. The sage grouse has been a candidate for protection as a threatened species for nearly a decade but it is unclear if it will ever be added. They as well as the dunes sagebrush lizard have seen their territory encroached upon by human development and have seen decreasing populations in recent years. The distinctive sage grouse return to their breeding grounds known as Leks every year. Biologists believe some Leks can be hundreds of years old. If the sage grouse does achieve threatened status environmentalists fear under the new Trump proposal it would be too late for them to gain the broad protections they need. Although the proposed change would only affect future creatures joining the list Mr Dreher says that if the proposed rules had been in effect in the 1970s animals such as wolves and bald eagles may have been extinct by now. In a significant reversal the proposed change would eliminate language that precludes wildlife experts from considering economic impacts when determining when an organism should be listed. Wolves which were re introduced in the lower 48 states have faced criticism from ranchers and farmers who argue that they have impacted their livelihood by killing their livestock. Re introducing them to the continental US came at great cost and effort says Mr Dreher a former US Fish and Wildlife official. Mr Dreher says that the ESA was designed by Congress to say that the value of life on earth is priceless and that politicians should not have to decide whether it is too expensive to prevent extinction. If we made those decisions you can see under different administrations we would end up protecting nothing. Because who knows what a snail is worth? Who knows what a frog is worth?	True	True	True	True	False
Global warming activist Greta Thunberg has trolled President Trump after he told the teen to 'chill' and 'work on her anger management problems'. The 16 year old who was named Time magazine's 'Person of The Year' updated her Twitter bio on Thursday to read 'A teenager working on her anger management problem. Currently chilling and watching a good old fashioned movie with a friend.' Her bio was a verbatim echo of Trump's tweet about her earlier in the day in which he reacted to news that the publication had awarded the accolade to Thunberg instead of him. 'So ridiculous' the Commander in chief wrote. 'Greta must work on her Anger Management problem then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend! Chill Greta Chill!' Thousands of Twitter users rushed to applaud Thunberg after she changed her bio to mock the President. Many praised the teenager for outmaneuvering Trump on Twitter who is widely seen as one of the platform's most skillful and effective users. By lunchtime the hashtag was trending on the social media platform with one popular response reading 'A 16 year old with Asperger's and non native English speaker has better social and communications skills than the current President of the United States. And better Twitter game.' Another wrote 'Interesting how a leader that acts like a child is yelling at a child who acts like a leader'. It's not the first time Thunberg has used her Twitter bio to deftly turn Trump's attacks back around. In September Greta described herself as a 'very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future' after the President sarcastically said of her UN Speech 'She seems like a very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future. So nice to see.' Meanwhile the President insists he wasn't petty about losing out as Time magazine's person of the year. When asked Wednesday if the White House had a comment about the Commander in chief losing the honor to Thunberg White House Principal Deputy Press Secretary Hogan Gidley emailed DailyMail.com 'Huh?!?' Thunberg is the magazine's youngest ever Person of the Year a title that still sparks Internet curiosity one day each year despite the steep decline of magazine sales. The teen girl with Asperger's syndrome is the face of the youth climate movement drawing large crowds with her appearances at protests and conferences since last year. Her angry accusations that world leaders are failing the younger generation have made headlines including her shouts of 'How dare you?' during the UN General Assembly this year. An image of her staring at Donald Trump as he entered the UN quickly became a social media meme. Trump has said he doesn't believe global warming is mainly caused by humans. During the 2016 campaign he claimed it was a 'hoax' promoted by China in order to gain economic advantage over the United States. The president has since withdrawn the U.S. from the Paris Climate Treaty. Time editor in chief Edward Felsenthal told the Today show 'She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement.' Politicians have mostly praised Thunberg and her movement as an important voice of her generation. Former Vice President Al Gore said Wednesday 'Brilliant decision for to choose as its Person of the Year. 'Greta embodies the moral authority of the youth activist movement demanding that we act immediately to solve the climate crisis. She is an inspiration to me and to people across the world' Gore said. Felsenthal said Thunberg 'represents a broader generational shift in the culture' adding 'She embodies youth activism.' The magazine says 'In the 16 months since she has addressed heads of state at the U.N. met with the Pope sparred with the President of the United States and inspired 4 million people to join the global climate strike on September 20 2019 in what was the largest climate demonstration in human history.' 'For sounding the alarm about humanity's predatory relationship with the only home we have for bringing to a fragmented world a voice that transcends backgrounds and borders for showing us all what it might look like when a new generation leads Greta Thunberg is TIME's 2019 Person of the Year' the media franchise said Wednesday on its website.	True	False	False	False	False
The Trump administration has escalated its fight with California over environmental regulations. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Andrew Wheeler sent a letter Monday to the California Air Resources Board threatening to withdraw billions of dollars in federal highway money unless the state clears a backlog of air pollution control plans. California has the worst air quality in the United States with 82 nonattainment areas and 34 million people living in areas that do not meet National Ambient Air Quality Standards Wheeler wrote. California's population topography weather and other factors do worsen air pollution there but the state also is widely recognized as a leader in improving air quality. Under the Clean Air Act states that don't meet federal air quality standards are required to submit State Implementation Plans. Wheeler says California represents a disproportionate share of the backlog of such plans. Since the 1970s California has failed to carry out its most basic tasks under the Clean Air Act said Wheeler. He then laid out the penalties for failing to meet federal requirements which include losing federal highway dollars. California is expected to receive about 8 billion in fiscal years 2019 and 2020. The Trump administration has been picking fights with California over environmental regulations recently. Last week the administration said it will revoke a waiver that allows California to set stricter car emission standards. A senior EPA official said the two actions were not linked and that California is the focus now because it represents the largest share of backlogged plans. Even though other states have similar backlogs the administration has not sent letters to them. Gov. Gavin Newsom has been critical of President Trump's environmental record and challenged the administration in court. Newsom called Wheeler's letter a brazen political stunt. The White House has no interest in helping California comply with the Clean Air Act to improve the health and well being of Californians. This letter is a threat of pure retaliation Newsom says. Former EPA officials say they were surprised Wheeler sent the letter to California. I just think it's so ironic that the EPA is chastising California which has been so progressive in working towards cleaner air more than any other place in the country says Janet McCabe who was an EPA official during the Obama administration and now directs Indiana University's Environmental Resilience Institute. McCabe says it's unusual for the EPA to publicly criticize a state in this way. She says typically the agency would communicate with a state privately and work out differences to encourage a cooperative rather than adversarial relationship.	False	True	False	True	False
The failure of carbon tax proposals to catch on in the U.S. and around the world is prompting environmentalists to give up hope of ever implementing it. Carbon fees were once considered an obvious next step in the countrys multifaceted effort to reduce CO2 emissions. Congresswoman elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez a rising star on the left believes a carbon tax can be one part of her sweeping Green New Deal. Some conservatives have signed on to the idea believing it to be a market based approach to eliminating pollution. Even a number of major energy companies have come forward in support of charging businesses for the amount of carbon they release into the atmosphere. However carbon tax proposals have proven unsuccessful time and time again. Initiative 1631 for example was supposed to serve as a bellwether for how similar legislation could fare across the country. The bill whichcalled for a 15 fee on each metric ton of carbon emissions was put to the test in Washington state during the 2018 midterm elections. Despite the states Democratic lean and the governors public backing the measure was soundly rejectedin November. It was the second time voters in the state had rejected a carbon fee. Such a proposal being rejected in a blue state doesnt bode well for activists who hope to see it implemented nationwide. If it cant pass in Washington state right now Im not sure that says that theres much of a pathway at this moment nationally Washington Democratic Sen. Jeff Merkley said of the outcome. Events across the Atlantic have only worsened prospects for carbon tax supporters. In the face of unprecedented protests the French government has decided to suspend a planned gas tax. President Emmanuel Macros had originally proposed a slew of new carbon taxes intended to wean consumers off fossil fuels and transition to electric vehicles. The price hikes however triggered a wave of intense riots. The protests which have lasted for weeks have even become deadly. One man was caught on video over the weekend losing his hand to a grenade explosion. Theres been a predominant conversation in Washington D.C. thats been led by economists and politicos that have tried to frame a carbon tax as the only way Evan Weber a national political director for the Sunrise Movement said to Politico. Its proved time and time again to be not politically popular and we havent even priced the policy at where economists say it needs to be. The idea that a carbon fee is the way out of this mess is something we need to be pushing back on. RELATED Keep It In The Ground Activists Stormed Trump Administrations Event At UN Meeting Activists will instead focus on other causes near and dear to the environmental movement such as pushing energy standards that mandate a total transition to clean and renewable energy. While many have expressed dissolution over the prospect of a carbon tax future other green activists plan to keep charging forward with their own proposals. Supporters plan to introduce various carbon fee bills across state capitols in 2019 including Pennsylvania New York New Jersey Maryland and New England. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	True	False	True	False
Proponents of the theory humans are primarily responsible for rising global temperatures long claimed wildlife are harmed significantly by global warming and that unless mankind stops producing significant amounts of carbon dioxide emissions the worlds animals will not be able to thrive. While rising temperatures have certainly put a strain on species in some parts of the world a new study by researchers at the University of Southern Denmark suggests animals in the Arctic region are thriving as because of higher global temperatures. According to a press release touting the studys new findings warmer conditions have produced a larger number of life sustaining melt ponds in Arctic waters. Melt ponds provide more light and heat for the ice and the underlying water but now it turns out that they may also have a more direct and potentially important influence on life in the Arctic waters stated the press release. Mats of algae and bacteria can evolve in the melt ponds which can provide food for marine creatures. This is the conclusion of researchers in the periodical Polar Biology the press release said. The researchers said nutrients are able to reach sea creatures in the Arctic more easily because of the melt ponds. Climate change is accompanies by more storms and more precipitation and we must expect that more nutrients will be released from the surroundings into the melt ponds said Professor Ronnie Glud of the Department of Biology at SDU. These conditions plus the fact that the distribution of areas of melt ponds is increasing can contribute to increased productivity in plant and animal life in the Arctic seas. Recent data released by scientists at NASA and the National Snow and Ice Data Center reveals sea ice in the Arctic and Antarctic regions are at their lowest recorded point since 1979 when satellite data first started estimating sea ice. About 2 million square km of Arctic sea ice are estimated to have been lost since 1979. Current data suggest about 14.28 million square km of sea ice remain. USA Today recently declared the loss of sea ice terrifying but global warming skeptics have long suggested these claims are overblown when put into perspective. As reported by Anthony Watts on his influential climate change website Watts Up With That the president of the Royal Society in London reported in 1817 significant reductions to arctic sea ice. It will without doubt have come to your Lordships knowledge that a considerable change of climate inexplicable at present to us must have taken place in the Circumpolar Regions by which the severity of the cold that has for centuries past enclosed the seas in the high northern latitudes in an impenetrable barrier of ice has been during the last two years greatly abated. this affords ample proof that new sources of warmth have been opened and give us leave to hope that the Arctic Seas may at this time be more accessible than they have been for centuries past and that discoveries may now be made in them not only interesting to the advancement of science but also to the future intercourse of mankind and the commerce of distant nations.	False	False	False	True	False
Much of Venice was left under water this week after the highest tide in 50 years ripped through the historic Italian city AFP PhotoFilippo MONTEFORTE Venice AFP Italy on Thursday declared a state of emergency for Venice after an exceptional tide surged through churches shops and homes causing millions of euros worth of damage to the UNESCO city. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said the cabinet had approved the state of emergency and ordered the immediate release of 20 million euros 22 million in funds for the most urgent interventions in the devastated city after Tuesday's flooding. Despite the emergency tourists larked around in the flooded St Mark's Square in the sunshine snapping selfies in their neon plastic boots and taking advantage of a respite in bad weather which has driven the high tides. Sirens warning of fresh flooding rang through the canal city early Thursday but the water level remained low compared to Tuesday's tide the highest in 50 years. Conte who has called the flooding a blow to the heart of our country met Venice's mayor and emergency services before jumping in a speed boat to visit businesses and locals affected by the tide. Residents whose houses had been hit would immediately get up to 5000 euros in government aid while restaurant and shop owners could receive up to 20000 euros and apply for more later he said. Several museums remained closed to the public on Thursday. As authorities assessed the extent of the damage to Venice's cultural treasures such as St Mark's Basilica where water invaded the crypt locals were defiant. Many stopped for their habitual coffees at flooded bars drinking their espresso while standing in several inches of water. Austrian tourist Cornelia Litschauer 28 said she felt mixed emotions seeing Venice's famous square half submerged. For the tourists it's amazing it's something to see. But for the people who live here it's a real problem Litschauer said cradling her white Chihuahua Pablo. It's strange. Tourists are taking pictures but the city is suffering. The Locanda Al Leon hotel said its bookings had suffered from the international media coverage of the flood with some guests cancelling their rooms after seeing images of Venice underwater. Under the arches of the Ducal Palace a couple from Hong Kong posed for photos in the chilly morning sun. This trip was planned a long time ago so we couldn't change it groom Jay Wong 34 said. Actually this is a good experience. It's an adventure. Tuesday's acqua alta or high waters submerged around 80 percent of the city officials said. Only once since records began in 1923 has the water crept even higher reaching 1.94 metres in 1966. Former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi arrived for a private tour of the damage sustained to the basilica while rival leader of the Italian right Matteo Salvini was due to drop by for the same on Friday. French tourist Manon Gaudre 22 said seeing Venice submerged was a unique experience. The damage it's causing to monuments and the people is worrying she said wondering if climate change was to blame. Many including Venice's mayor have blamed the disaster on global warming and warned that Italy a country prone to natural disasters must wake up to the risks posed by ever more volatile seasons. We need to be resilient and adapt. We need a policy that looks at the climate through completely different eyes Environment Minister Sergio Costa said Thursday. Mayor Luigi Brugnaro has estimated the damage to Venice at hundreds of millions of euros. The Serenissima as the floating city is called is home to a mere 50000 residents but receives 36 million global visitors each year. A massive infrastructure project called MOSE has been under way since 2003 to protect the city but it has been plagued by cost overruns corruption scandals and delays. This engineering solution that will end up costing nearly six billion euros has got to work Transport Minister Paola De Micheli said. The plan involves 78 gates that can be raised to protect Venice's lagoon during high tides but a recent attempt to test part of it caused worrying vibrations and engineers discovered it had rusted.	True	True	False	True	True
Obviously if the temperature continues to go up at some point it can be harmful or even very harmful the billionaire Republican megadonor said during an interview last week on Freakonomics Radio. But the question is What do we do about it about whatever risk there is? And to me the answer is innovation. On the face of it that admission may seem like a shift coming from a man who with his brother David bankrolled a conservative movement bent on hacking away environmental regulations and helped transform the GOP into the only major political party in the developed world to deny the overwhelming evidence of manmade global warming. But to scientists Koch remains a climate pariah who has learned how to temper his message for audiences who dont buy into the view that industry players are somehow more credible than impartial researchers. Its just no longer credible to deny out of hand that climate change is happening or even that its human caused Michael Mann a climatologist at Penn State University and co author of a new book on climate change denialism told HuffPost on Monday. So the forces of denial the special interests the polluting interests have instead turned to a new talking point that they think they might be able to get away with. When you look at all the climate denial arguments theyre basically the flip of all that Its not real its not us its not bad the experts disagree or the experts are unreliable and theres no hope we cant fix it Cook told HuffPost. You expect them to be moving along that spectrum. But that reasoning which sounds measured compared to outright denial of observable phenomena has been employed for years to undermine climate science and does not represent an evolution on the issue. The spectrum of climate science denialism that argument included has not changed much over the past two decades according to a 2015 U.K. study analyzing 16000 documents from conservative think tanks. The philosophical belief that left alone the free market will produce industries and technologies to curb climate change before it becomes catastrophic is flawed. Economist Milton Friedman the so called patron saint of laissez faire capitalism who popularized the belief that corporations should pursue profit and shareholder value above all argued there is little incentive to preserve the environment without some form of government intervention. You need a price on the emission of carbon if youre going to level the playing field Mann said. Even Milton Friedman understood the existence of market externalities the fact that damage to our environment is not accounted for in the free market without placing some sort of price signal. The most popular solution among economists is putting a tax on carbon emissions. In February a group of Republican elder statesmen introduced a plan for a 40 carbon tax that would be returned to taxpayers in the form of a carbon dividend. A cadre of oil and gas giants including Exxon Mobil Corp. endorsed the proposal earlier this month. But the proposition faces dim prospects of becoming law under the Trump administration which has vowed to pump up the oil gas and coal industries. Booming U.S. oil production bolstered by advancements in hydraulic fracturing or fracking technology has helped keep oil prices low since they plummeted in mid 2014. The price per barrel now hovers just above 40. Without some incentive from policymakers to invest in zero emissions energy such as wind solar or hydropower the world is likely to warm well past 2 degrees Celsius or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit by the end of the century. That temperature rise would drastically alter the climate submerge coastal communities and could create up to 2 billion refugees. Both government policy and low carbon technological innovations are going to be critical to keeping warming within 2C James Leaton research director at the U.K. based financial think tank Carbon Tracker told HuffPost by email. Obviously policy and technology interact and cannot be seen in isolation with policy stimulating technological deployment and rapid roll out reducing the future level of policy required. Both can impact the relative financial attractiveness of future energy options. These policies that the U.S. government has others have proposed or promulgated have been just symbolic Koch said in the interview. We oppose all of these because they end up being cronyism. They end up helping certain wealthy people to the disadvantage of the less fortunate. Sometimes the pot calls the kettle black. But in this case the kettle is filled with a solution to clean up the greasy mess left behind by the pot. And the pot is a fossil fuel tycoon with a net worth roughly the size of Bulgarias gross domestic product. Its one thing to be an ignorant fool but its quite something else to allow ones malicious ignorance to potentially threaten the entire planet Mann said. That is what is so pernicious about Kochs continued denial of the threat of climate change and the extent to which they have been able to pollute our entire political discourse by using their political wealth to confuse the public and policymakers about the reality of this existential threat.	True	True	True	True	False
TIME listed Greta Thunberg a 16 year old climate change activist on its list of the 100 most influential people of 2019. Thunberg who says she has Asperger syndrome gained prominence for ditching school every Friday to protest outside Swedish parliament. The teenager warned in a high profile speech to the United Nations last year that we need to keep the fossil fuels in the ground or face catastrophe. Thousands of students in Europe and the U.S. ditched school to demand government action on climate change in February. American student activists led by the daughter of Democratic Minnesota Rep. Ilhan Omar demanded a Green New Deal the legislation sponsored by New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez. Greta Thunberg saw her power in us and we in turn see our power in her March for Our Lives co founder Emma Gonzlez wrote of Thunberg for TIME adding that Greta is inspiring steadfast students and shaming apathetic adults. Climate change is our reality and youth activists like Greta are doing everything within their power to work against it and demand a change Gonzlez wrote. Thunbergs prominence has only grown as has the alarm of her message. Thunberg even met with Pope Francis who issued an encyclical on global warming in 2015. RELATED Another Canadian Province Boots Liberals Out Of Power Over Carbon Taxes Environmentalists even some climate scientists are increasingly promoting Thunbergs actions in an effort to draw more young people into climate activism. European politicians invited Thunberg to bring her call for urgent action on global warming to lawmakers. I want you to act as if the house was on fire Thunberg said in a speech to European Parliament Tuesday. We are in the middle of the sixth mass extinction and the extinction rate is 10000 times faster than what is considered normal with up to 200 species becoming extinct every single day said a teary eyed Thunberg. Erosion of fertile topsoil deforestation of the rainforest toxic air pollution loss of insects and wildlife acidification of our oceans these are all disastrous trends said Thunberg barely able to keep her tears back. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	True	True
Environmental groups were not going to be happy with anyone President Donald Trump picked for the Supreme Court. But the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh has them especially worried. A conservative who would replace the more moderate Justice Anthony Kennedy Kavanaugh has a record of slapping back Environmental Protection Agency regulations during his 12 years as a federal appeals court judge. Kavanaugh could shift the court to the right in many areas. But Kennedy was especially pivotal on environmental cases ruling with the majority on nearly all of them over 30 years on the bench and often siding with the environmentalists in the biggest cases. Kavanaugh has a narrower view of what environmental protections the federal government can implement. That was clear from an Associated Press review of his opinions while on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit along with other writings and speeches. It threatens to take us back to the old days said Pat Gallagher the legal director at the Sierra Club recalling environmental disasters from the 1960s and '70s. The Cuyahoga River Love Canal when there was no environmental protection. Kavanaugh's backers don't see him as anti environment. His rulings in cases involving the EPA say far more about the aggressive nature of the EPA in terms of trying to stretch beyond its breaking point its mandate from Congress said John Malcolm vice president of the conservative Heritage Foundation's Institute for Constitutional Government. Republicans hope the Senate can confirm Kavanaugh by the time the court's next session begins Oct. 1. But that is in doubt because of delays in reviewing documents related to Kavanaugh's time in President George W. Bush's administration. In his opinions on environmental issues Kavanaugh has often stressed the importance of policies to protect against climate change before saying that Congress not the EPA should create those policies. One prominent example came last year in a majority opinion that found the EPA lacks the authority to regulate hydrofluorocarbons chemicals linked to global warming. Kavanaugh wrote EPA's well intentioned policy objectives with respect to climate change do not on their own authorize the agency to regulate. William Buzbee a Georgetown Law professor who teaches constitutional and environmental law said Kavanaugh often rules that either Congress didn't delegate duties clearly enough to the EPA or that the agency wasn't carrying them out correctly in contrast with a history of judges giving wide latitude to agencies to try to solve problems. It's a move that sounds like an attitude of deference and separation of power Buzbee said. The effect is to take away an agency's powers to deal with real world problems. President Barack Obama relied heavily on administrative action as Republicans controlled Congress for most of his presidency and resisted passing laws that favored environmental protections over companies. Kavanaugh addressed that in the hydrofluorocarbons case Under the Constitution congressional inaction does not license an agency to take matters into its own hands even to solve a pressing policy issue such as climate change. Kavanaugh took similar approaches in two major 2012 rulings. In one Kavanaugh dissented from the circuit wanting to grant further review in a case in which the appeals court upheld the EPA's ability to regulate greenhouse gases. In another Kavanaugh wrote the majority opinion to eliminate a 2011 EPA rule limiting emissions from power plants and other sources to reduce pollution in neighboring states. Writing for a divided panel he found that this good neighbor rule overstepped the EPA's authority. The Supreme Court overruled Kavanaugh. In a speech last year at the American Enterprise Institute Kavanaugh praised the late Justice Antonin Scalia for applying a principle laid out by Chief Justice William Rehnquist to an EPA case. The major questions doctrine he said is critical to limiting the ability of agencies to make major policy decisions that belong to Congress at least unless Congress clearly delegates that authority. Still Kavanaugh has not always ruled against environmental regulation. In 2010 he wrote the majority opinion for a divided panel when trucking groups sued the EPA over California's regulations for engines such as those that power refrigeration systems on trucks. Kavanaugh praised the agency for properly following Congress' directions in delegating that narrow area of regulation to California. In environmental cases judges often must sort out who has the legal standing to challenge regulations or push for protections. The Supreme Court now for decades has said that environmental and aesthetic interests count for standing Buzbee said. My sense is they count less for Judge Kavanaugh. In a 2014 case he wrote the unanimous opinion finding that environmental groups did not have standing to challenge an EPA decision not to tighten carbon monoxide standards. There are also cases where he found that industrial groups have standing to oppose environmental restrictions. One of those came last year when he was on a panel that unanimously found that logging interests had standing to challenge the designation of 9.5 million acresin California Oregon and Washington as a critical habitat for the northern spotted owl. He wrote that industry groups showed clearly that they would face economic harm if logging was banned in the area. There are exceptions in his record. Kavanaugh was part of a unanimous 2009 ruling that found road and transportation building groups did not have standing to challenge some EPA rules. If Kavanaugh is confirmed in time for the new court session the first case he'd hear would deal with an environmental issue. In the case the private owners of land used for logging in Louisiana object to their property's inclusion in the critical habitat for the dusky gopher frog which was added to the endangered species list in 2001 when fewer than 100 were known to be in existence all in southern Mississippi. None of the frogs has been spotted in Louisiana for more than 50 years. A federal appeals court found the land's inclusion as a critical habitat was appropriate.	False	False	False	False	True
The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel On Climate Changes IPCC newly released climate report once again found little to no evidence global warming caused many types of extreme weather events to increase. The IPCC once again reports that there is little basis for claiming that drought floods hurricanes tornadoes have increased much less increased due to greenhouse gases University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. tweetedSunday night. For example the IPCCs report noted that there is only low confidence regarding changes in global tropical cyclone numbers under global warming over the last four decades. Pielke pointed out this inconvenient data. Much like the IPCCs 2013 climate assessment the new special report confirmed what Pielke and others have said for years about the relationship between global warming and extreme weather. But dont expect to hear that from many other media outlets especially those that often cite individual weather events as evidence of man made warming. For example The Washington Posts write up of the IPCCs report focused on the mainline findings namely that the world is woefully off target to keep future global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. The New York Times highlighted the IPCCs warning of a world of worsening food shortages and wildfires and a mass die off of coral reefs as soon as 2040. Neither WaPo nor NYT mentioned the reports findings on extreme weather. The IPCCs new report is meant to sound the alarm on global warming ahead of the UN climate summit which is to be held in Poland this December. Delegates are expected to make further commitments to implement the Paris climate accord that calls for limiting future warming below 2 degrees Celsius by 2100. Aside from dire predictions however the IPCCs new report also noted that many types of extreme weather events are not getting worse. RELATED Its The Final Chance We Have To Stop Global Warming Until The Next Chance When it comes to droughts for example the IPCC admits there is low confidence in the sign of drought trends since 1950 at global scale. The report says there are likely to be trends in some regions of the world including increasing droughts in the Mediterranean and decreasing droughts in parts of North America. The IPCC also noted there is low confidence due to limited evidence however that anthropogenic climate change has affected the frequency and the magnitude of floods. The report added that streamflow trends since 1950 are non statistically significant in most of the worlds largest rivers. However the reports authors warned that future warming could exacerbate extreme weather and hurt the global economy. The reports authors also claimed extreme weather had already increased contrary to much of their own evidence. One of the key messages that comes out very strongly from this report is that we are already seeing the consequences of 1 degree Celsius of global warming through more extreme weather rising sea levels and diminishing Arctic sea ice among other changes Panmao Zhai an IPCC co chair said in a statement issued Sunday.	True	False	False	True	True
The United States of America has disproportionately contributed to the climate and ecological crises and to preventing a transition away from fossil fuels and Americans thus bear an extraordinary responsibility to solve the crises the text reads. Apparently the six million Jews massacred during the Second World War not to mention the other tens of millions of casualties do not measure up to the overarching evils of climate changeat least in the minds of the Berkeley City Council. Droughts famines and diseases produced by global warming have already killed millions of people in the Global South the document announces adding that the earth is already too hot for safety and justice. The global economys overshoot of ecological limits and increasingly climate change are driving a global fresh water scarcity crisis and the sixth mass extinction of species which could devastate much of life on earth for the next ten million years the resolution warns. To read through the text one would think that global warming has been behind every catastrophe and uprising on the planet. Climate change has been linked to the Syrian War the rise of Boko Haram in Nigeria as well as the famines water shortages and resulting conflict in Yemen Somalia and South Sudan the document pronounces. Not only present evils however but future calamities are also prophesied with astounding exactitude and certainty. The collapse of the Greenland Ice Shelf the resolution states could result in several billion climate refugees or a substantial share of the entire population of the world. Climate change population growth and growing demand for food energy and fresh water will incite violent conflict over diminishing resources by the year 2030 the document also forecasts with remarkable confidence. The antidote to the Councils doomsday predictions are to take the world back to pre industrial levels of CO2 emissions the text declares conjuring images of bearded Amish people driving about in horse drawn carriages. Humanity must restore a safe level of greenhouse gas concentrations and global average temperatures well below todays levels and back to pre industrial levels as quickly as possible it states. Despite the Councils dire warnings however it turns out that scientists themselves are far less certain that Berkeleys elite council members. For instance only 22 percent of the 1862 American Meteorological Society AMS members surveyed in 2008 believe that all or a large amount of the damage caused by global warming could be prevented by taking measures to mitigate its effects. Moreover the correlation between carbon dioxide emissions and climate warming seems anything but linear. Between 2002 and 2008 CO2 emissions increased from 24 billion tons to 29 billion. In that same period the global temperature anomaly decreased from 0.62C to 0.52C. This fuzzy correlation between CO2 emissions and increase in global temperature raises the question of just what effect a radical decrease of carbon dioxide emissions would actually have on the planet. Not content with prescribing a drastic cutback in global emissions however the Council members forge onward to make a more insidious proposal population control. The Council argues in favor of finding ways to humanely stabilize population as a means of mitigating the effects of global warming. The City of Berkeley calls on the United States of America to initiate a just national mobilization emergency effort to reverse global warming which ends national greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible and immediately initiates an effort to safely draw down carbon from the atmosphere the text boldly proposes. While one can only have pity on local residents who must live under the heavy boot of the unhinged Berkeley City Council the rest of the nation can offer a collective sigh of relief that their power extends no further.	False	False	False	True	True
Republican politicians often evoke the Bible when it suits their purposes. But they disregard some of its most important teachings when formulating policy. This includes the story of Noahs Ark.Noahs story holds powerful lessons for us today. We live in a time when it has become absolutely clear that global warming is starting to have a devastating affect on our lives. From super storms and floods like the disaster unfolding in Houston to droughts and fires of unprecedented magnitude the direct effects of climate change are now impossible to ignore. Rising sea levels will put whole swaths of coastal cities like Miami under water before the end of the century. Yet despite such ample evidence and warnings the Republican Party still chooses to ignore the reality. And sometimes I wonder whether any amount of evidence could convince you to act. After all we have a surplus of evidence. What is lacking is the political will of Republican elected officials like youto do anything about it. The catastrophe unfolding in Houston is yet another stark warning.People are losing their homes and their jobs. Some have lost their lives.Scientists expect monster storms like Hurricane Harvey to increase in number and intensify in magnitude as warmer temperatures disrupt weather systems around the world. As I write Hurricane Irma a terrifying superstorm with the highest wind speeds ever recorded in the Atlantic is cutting a destructive path through the Caribbean. Cities like Houston and New Orleans on the Gulf of Mexico face the threat of severe and life threatening impacts. We have a moral responsibility to address this urgent threat.But Republicans dont want to talk about the problem or even admit it exists. Instead the Republican strategy has consisted of aggressive denial of the facts coupled with staunch obstruction of any serious action to address the problem. Tragically no industry has done more to block crucial action to address climate change than the oil industry. In fact as Hurricane Harvey barreled towards Houston two Harvard researchers were simultaneously releasing a report that detailed how Exxon Mobil spent decades lying to the American people about climate change. Now Exxon along with other major oil corporations like Valero Shell Citgo and Phillips 66 has been forced to shut down its Houston refinery because of flooding from the storm. Port Arthur the planned terminus of the Keystone XL pipeline is completely under water. The executives of these oil companies are bearing witness to the boomerang effect of burning fossil fuels. They are glimpsing a future that millions of Americans will face as the climate crisis intensifies. Senators I hope that you will take some time to reflect. Few politicians have done more to prevent action on climate change than the two of youwhich I suspect may have something to do with the5.6 million youve taken from the oil and gas industry over the years.But with so many citizens of your state suffering the direct consequences of climate change I hope you can summon the moral courage to change course. We face an existential threat and in the face of this your specious economic arguments and lame fossil fuel endorsed excuses fall flat. We know that fighting climate change will reduce costs and create millions of jobs.We have the knowledge and technology needed to prevent future catastrophes.By doing so we will create broad prosperity cleaner air and water cheaper energy for all and most importantly we will save lives. Just as the evidence of crisis has made itself apparent in Texas so has the fact that clean energy provides a better path for all made itself evident in the Lone Star State. Texas leads the nation in wind power generation and its on the way to becoming a solar energy powerhouse. Senators its time for you to join the team that is trying to do the right thing not just in the short run but with an eye to our shared future. The people of Texas need you to get on board with the biggest economic opportunity of the 21st century clean energy technology that will save lives create jobs and protect the amazing creation we all call home. On behalf of NextGen America please know that the people of Houston are in our thoughts and prayers. We are also fully engaged in fundraising efforts to assist our fellow citizens affected by this catastrophe. Words do not suffice in a tragedy like this. This is a time for action action to care for our fellow citizens in the face of disaster and action to prevent a systemic worsening of the climate crisis by heeding the warning and doing what is right.	True	True	False	True	True
Some of us knew this already. Butyou rarely hear itsotrenchantly expressed by a former world leader as it was in London yesterday by Aussie ex Prime Minister Tony Abbott in ahard hitting must read speech for the Global Warming Policy Foundation. Abbott is one of only a handful of world leaders to have spoken out against the global warming consensus. The only other ones recently are former Czech presidentVclav Klaus and of course President Donald Trump. This gives you an idea of just how badly infected are the nations of the free world by the green virus. Even those politicians who might nurture doubts in private almost never express them in public. Abbott himself lost his job as Australias prime minister at least in part because he was found guilty of wrongthink onclimate change which he once famously described as crap.The man who replaced him as prime minister Malcolm Turnbull unfondly known as the Honourable Member for Goldman Sachs is himself a leading tentacle of the Green Blob. Abbotts speech which is causing Australias notoriously left wing media to explode like ripe watermelons struck by hollow point bullets ought to serve as a painful reminder to Australias Liberal party of the talent they lost when they decided to knife this Jesuit trained Oxford educated rock solid family man conservative in the back and replace him with the slippery Davos style globalist Turnbull. Here are some of the highlights Climate change is a product of ignorance and an anti Christian society If science was all about consensus wed still be living in caves Greens want to make life nasty brutish and short Wheres the evidence for climate catastrophe? Theres none in Australia thats for sure Contrary to the breathless assertions that climate change is behind every weather event in Australia the floods are not bigger the bushfires are not worse the droughts are not deeper or longer and the cyclones are not more severe than they were in the 1800s. Sometimes they do more damage but thats because theres more to destroy not because their intensity has increased. More than 100 years of photography at Manly Beach in my electorate does not suggest that sea levels have risen despite frequent reports from climate alarmists that this is imminent. But theres plenty of evidence that green lunacy is killing the Australian economy Renewableshave more to do with virtue signalling than with useful energy Theres a reason renewable energy is crap and its so simple even lefties and greens should be able to understand it Hydro aside renewable energy should properly be referred to as intermittent and unreliable power. When the wind doesnt blow and the sun doesnt shine the power doesnt flow. Wind and solar power are like sailing ships cheaper than powered boats to be sure but weve stopped using sail for transport because it couldnt be trusted to turn up on time. Because the weather is unpredictable you never really know when renewable power is going to work. Its marginal cost is low but so is its reliability so in the absence of industrial scale batteries it always needs matching capacity from dependable coal gas hydro or nuclear energy. This should always have been obvious. We think wererational but where green policy is concerned were little better than the Aztecs Oh and by the way the way were carrying on Western Civilization is on its way out	False	True	False	True	False
Four Christian church leaders in Montana are urging their states Republican senator to quit rejecting the widely accepted science behind man made global warming. The one Catholic priest and three Protestant clergy criticized Sen. Steve Daines R Mont. inan op edpublished by the Missoulian Thursday for failing to understand climate changes role in a widespread fish kill in Yellowstone National Park last summer. We cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment said the church leaders the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co Cathedral. The simple moral truth is that United States is by far the worlds largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it they added. The church leaders slammed Daines for having the audacity to challenge the overwhelming scientific consensus that emissions from farms and burning fossil fuels are trapping heat in the atmosphere and causing the planet to warm. Not unlike the years of public skepticism over smokings role in lung cancermany people still doubt the science behind global warming thanks to a decades long campaign to seed doubt funded by companies with money at stake. Daines who earned a bachelors degree in chemical engineering before entering politics received a paltry 3 percent lifetime score from the League of Conservation Voters which ranks lawmakers by how they vote on environmental legislation. He did however earn a 16 percent score for last year. In 2012 he told Montana Public Radio he believes the climate is changing but doubts how much humans are effecting it. We view science as a way to deepen our appreciation and wonder at the majesty of Gods creation including the complex beautiful and life sustaining planet earth.	False	True	True	False	False
Rashida Tlaib was nearly breathless. It was 130 on Tuesday afternoon and the newly elected congresswomantold me that shed been racing from one meeting to the next since she arrived in Washington for the weeklong new member orientation. But before 800 amthis morning the incoming representative from Detroit had still found time to give a pep talk to the Sunrise Movement agroup ofyouth activists who would soonstorm the office of Democratic leaderNancy Pelosi to demand that the party use its new House majority to address climate change. The night before Tlaib and Representative elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez N.Y.who made headlines today by joining the protesters at Pelosis officehad stopped by St. Stephens church to meet with the activists on the eve of the demonstration. For me those young people I saw at that church that was me 15 years ago Tlaib said in a phone interview. I was fighting back against corporate greed and this constant disregard for public health. I wanted to come and help. The move is unusual for newly elected members of Congress but not so for Tlaib and Ocasio Cortez both of whom arrived in electoral politics through activism and community organizing and identify themselves as democratic socialists. And while Congress affords them a bigger platform to advance their progressive policy agenda their decision to join with the protesters during their first days in Washington makes clear that they have no intention of abandoning the strategies and principles that paved their way to Capitol Hill. Climate change has been a key issue for both Tlaib and Ocasio Cortez. As a Michigan state legislator Tlaib fought to reduceair and water pollution in Detroit and put environmental justice at the center of her campaign. Ocasio Cortez meanwhile has proposed a new congressional committee to develop a plan to transition the US economy away from fossil fuels reduce the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and promote economic and environmental justice and equality. Tlaib views her workwith groups like the Sunrise Movement as a natural extension of the campaigns she and her fellow progressive built. I dont have to stop being an activist because Im a member of Congress she says. That movement work is critical to moving the needle. Indeed Tuesdays protests appear to have already had some success. Pelosiwho is courting support for her bid to be House speaker issued a statementreaffirming her support for reinstating a select committee to address climate change a new iteration of a House committee that met from 2007 to 2010 but was eliminated when Republicans took control of the House. That promise falls short of what Ocasio Cortez Tlaib and the Sunrise Movement protesters seeknamely the creation of a so called Green New Dealbut the attention has started a conversation between the new members and their partys longtime leader. How far these freshmen progressives can push their fellow Democrats remains uncertain. The Congressional Progressive Caucusa coalition ofliberallawmakers thatTlaib and Ocasio Cortez have joinedwill have a record 90 members in the new Congress. Theres a lot more of us now Tlaib says. Be hopeful.	True	False	False	True	True
Democratic US presidential candidate Joe Biden whose first campaign was sunk by plagiarism has been caught plagiarizing bits of his 2020 climate plan. The campaign claims it merely left out the citations. At least three passages from the climate plan Biden's campaign released on Tuesday were copied directly from environmental organizations CREDO activist Josh Nelson tweeted posting original text from the Carbon Capture Coalition and the Blue Green Alliance alongside text from Biden's campaign website. Compounding the gaffe the Carbon Capture Coalition's membership includes the country's largest fossil fuel companies not such strange bedfellows for Biden who received a D grade from Greenpeace last week largely due to his lack of environmental policy but less than ideal for a candidate trying to reinvent himself as green. Biden's campaign waited the better part of a day to address the charges as the news spread buoyed by anger at the candidate over news he'd lied about marching in the civil rights movement finally telling Business Insider that while they had inadvertently left out several citations from the final version of the document posted to the website it had been updated to include references. Biden's habit of plagiarism dates back to his first presidential campaign in 1988 when he lifted a popular speech from a UK politician that mischaracterized his own family background implyinghe was descended from coal miners and the first in his family to attend university. Caught in a pile of lies the campaign responded with a strikingly similar excuse To the degree it wasn't attributed it was an oversight or inadvertent Biden's 1988 campaign aide told the New York Times. It wasn't the only misappropriated speech Biden made before dropping out of the race he also borrowed one from Robert F. Kennedy the previous year and even plagiarized while at law school complaining when he was caught that his intent was not to deceive anyone. The candidate complained the fuss over his plagiarism was much ado about nothing and blamed rival campaigns for blowing the issue out of proportion. Like this story? Share it with a friend!	False	False	False	False	False
The Sierra Club distributed a press release on Wednesday announcing it had received the 64 million donation to support its Beyond Coal campaign and other organizations with the same ideology that would like to put all coal operations out of business and the American workers who depend on them out of work. Thepress release stated Pollution from coal fired power plants is the largest source of carbon emissions and kills 7500 Americans annually down from 13000 when the Beyond Coal campaign began expanding in 2011 through support from Bloomberg. To date Bloomberg has invested over 100 million in protecting the environment and public health through its support of the Beyond Coal campaign. Since 2011 when Bloomberg Philanthropies first partnered with the Sierra Clubs Beyond Coal Campaign nearly 50 percent of the countrys coal fired power plants have announced their retirement and deaths related to coal pollution have decreased by 42. The press release said the new funding will be used to maintain progress despite the fate of the Clean Power Plan. The Trump administration has yet to realize that the war on coal was never led by Washingtonand Washington cannot end it Bloomberg said in the press release. It was started and continues to be led by communities in both red and blue states who are tired of having their air and water poisoned when there are cleaner and cheaper alternatives available cities and states that are determined to clean their air and reduce their costs and businesses seeking to lower their energy bills while also doing their part for the climate. Without any federal regulations on carbon emissions those groups have combined with market forces to close half the nations coal fired power plants over the past six yearsand with this new grant we aim to reach 60 percent by the end of 2020 Bloomberg said. Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club boasted that his organization and other activists are responsible for the closure of scores of dirty power plants. Together we have worked with local grassroots activists and partners in the nations most vulnerable communities to secure the retirement of 259 dirty power plants and the promise of a brighter future putting at the center of our work a transition that leaves no one behind and that demands good paying family sustaining jobs for workers who depended on the fossil fuel economy Brune said. All of this and were just getting started. Our movement is growing and our momentum is unstoppable. Our clean energy future is now. President Trumpsignedan executive order in March ordering a review of the Clean Power Plan as well as other environmental regulations. Instead of Obamas stifling energy regulations the Trump administration will promote policies thatfavorAmerican energy dominance. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt who was one of the first Attorneys General to sue the EPA over the Clean Power Plan is now undertaking the repeal of the Obama era clean energy power grab.	True	False	False	True	True
President Donald Trump asserted that he had very high levels of intelligence and as such did not believe in the scientific consensus surrounding climate change in a sweeping interview with The Washington Post published Tuesday. One of the problems that a lot of people like myself we have very high levels of intelligence but were not necessarily such believers said Trump speaking to the Posts Josh Dawsey and Philip Rucker. You look at our air and our water and its right now at a record clean. ... As to whether or not its man made and whether or not the effects that youre talking about are there I dont see it not nearly like it is. Trumps statements his latest in a long history of climate change denial go against the vast majority of scientists who say the planet has rapidly warmed since the Industrial Revolution and will continue to do so unless humanity is able to dramatically scale back greenhouse gas emissions. Without such action the planet faces a slew of devastating effects including a mass die off of coral reefsan increase in the severity of natural disasters such as wildfires and a global economic hit in the trillions of dollars according to a recent United Nations study. The White House released its own sweeping National Climate Assessment on the Friday after Thanksgiving. The 1656 page reportcompiled by 13 federal agencies and more than 300 researchers painted the bleakest portrait of the future United States yet noting that the country had already warmed 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit over the past century and will warm a further 3 degrees by 2100 unless fossil fuel use is scaled back. Predictions even said that warming could approach 9 degrees or more by the end of the century. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Tuesday that the recent National Climate Assessment was not based on facts. The report was compiled by 13 federal agencies and more than 300 researchers. Among threats to health and the environment the report also warned that sweeping damage would cut off as much as 10 percent of the U.S. economy. Its not based on facts. ... Its not data driven White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said at a news briefing Tuesday. Wed like to see something that is more data driven. Its based on modeling. I wrote the climate scenarios chapter myself so I can confirm it considers ALL scenarios from those where we go carbon negative before end of century to those where carbon emissions continue to rise Katharine Hayhoe a co author of the current assessment and director of the Climate Science Center at Texas Tech University said in a tweet on Friday. The president has stayed firm on his anti climate rhetoric in recent days even after the devastating Camp fire in Northern California left at least 88 people dead. Trump toured the town of Paradise which was incinerated and said that his opinion of climate change hadnt shifted after the visit. He moved to lay blame on forest management policies during the visit instead even suggesting that raking would help stop the scourge of wildfires claims he appeared to repeat in his interview with the Post on Tuesday. The fire in California where I was if you looked at the floor the floor of the fire they have trees that were fallen they did no forest management no forest maintenance and you can light you can take a match like this and light a tree trunk when that thing is laying there for more than 14 or 15 months Trump said. You go to other places where they have denser trees its more dense where the trees are more flammable they dont have forest fires like this because they maintain.	True	False	False	False	False
After this hurricane season the GOP has a dose of reality they are going to HAVE to take climate change is real and it can and will be destructive. With what basically amounts to a humanitarian crisis going on in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria it cannot be ignored any longer. However with a Trump administration it will be if allowed. Fortunately for the country and the world there are some Democrats who will do their best to stop the Republican party from destroying the Earth with their own blatant ignorance. During a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing on Wednesday Senator Jeff Merkley D OR took EPA appointee William Wehrum to task over his inability to acknowledge that greenhouse gases do have a major impact on temperature. Merkley displayed a chart composed by NASA that showed the relationship between rising temperatures and rising greenhouse emissions. Obviously the chart showed that as greenhouse gas emissions go up so does the temperature. It was a basic question asking if the lines followed each other. A five year old could easily note that they do indeed follow each other. Wehrum tried to sleazily worm his way out of answering the simple question. Merkley interrupted Wehrum and asked him to just look at the lines. Wehrum never did answer the question. Merkley thanked him and then let him have it. He then noted NASA found no correlation between solar activity or volcanic activity however they did find a correlation between carbon dioxide and other global warming gases and the rising temperature of the planet. Merkley continued For the rest of the questioning Merkley continued to show just how woefully ignorant the officials in charge of the Environmental Protection Agency are. The truly maddening part though is that Merkley showed the American people that its not just ignorance its intentional ignorance. They refuse to see it accept being ignorant and continue their refusal to acknowledge that climate change is real and it will have and already has had devastating effects on the planet. You can watch a video of the hearing below.	True	True	True	True	False
Energy Secretary Rick Perry attended a March 29 event about the state of U.S. energy where he discussed his thoughts on energy policy with Carl Cannon the Washington bureau chief of RealClearPolitics. Here are four checks on claims from the interview. Claim 1 Solar grew by 90 percent in the last two years. So were seeing this really great growth in these renewables claimed Perry. The solar energy sector has grown dramatically in recent years. Technological innovation as well as economies of scale have made solar a viable technology. The price of crystalline silicon solar modules for example have dropped dramatically falling from 79 per watt in 1976 2018 dollars to 0.27 per watt according to BloombergNEF. In terms of electricity generation the extent of that growth depends on the type of solar panels counted and whether small scale facilities are included. Looking at photovoltaic solar panels the dominant type of solar technology the U.S. generated on net nearly 33 million megawatt hours MWh at utility scale facilities in 2016 rising 90 percent to 63 million MWh in 2018 according to the Energy Information Administration EIA. When including electricity generated from a second form of solar technology known as solar thermal the percent change drops slightly to 85 percent. These figures only represent the electricity generated at utility scale facilities which are 1 MW or larger in size. The percentage drops further to 75 percent when including net electricity generation from small scale facilities. The EIAs Monthly Energy Review for March reports an 85 percent increase for solar electricity 36.1 million net kilowatt hours kWh generated in 2016 compared to 66.6 million kWh in 2018. Claim 2 When I was governor of Texas we put more wind energy in than any other state in the nation said Perry. Perry served as governor of Texas from December 2000 to January 2015 making him the longest serving governor in Texas history. During that time the state experienced a boom in wind energy. From 2000 to 2014 the amount of net electricity generated from wind power grew from 492000 MWh a year to just over 40 million a year an 8029 percent increase according to EIA data. No other state experienced the same level of growth over this period. Iowa was the next closest generating an additional 15.8 million MWh from wind. The same can be said when measuring growth by installed wind capacity. Texas added nearly 14000 megawatts MW of capacity from 2000 to 2014 according to the Energy Departments DOE WindExchange website far more than the 5446 MW that Iowa added over the same period. Perry helped spur investment in wind energy when he signed a 2005 bill that required Texas to dramatically increase its renewable energy capacity over the following decade. He also threw his support behind a 7 billion electrical transmission project to send renewable energy to communities across the state. Claim 3 From 2005 to 2017 this country has reduced emissions by 14 percent claimed Perry. In 2017 the U.S. emitted 5.1 billion metric tons of energy related carbon dioxide according to EIA data. This represents a 1 percent decrease from the previous year and a 14 percent decrease since 2005. Weighted by global warming potential carbon dioxide emissions accounted for 82 percent of total greenhouse gas emissions in 2017 according to a report from the Environmental Protection Agency. Gross greenhouse emissions fell from 7.3 billion metric tons in 2005 to 6.5 billion in 2017 a 12 percent reduction. Claim 4 When I first met you you were running for president the Department of Energy was one of the federal agencies that you thought was maybe extraneous said Cannon. In 2011 Perry ran for president as a Republican. During one presidential debate he said that he would abolish three federal agencies if elected naming the Commerce and Education Departments but infamously forgetting the third. He later clarified that the third agency was the DOE telling reporters Everybody tomorrow will understand the Energy Department is one of those that needs to be done away with. President Donald Trump announced that he would nominate Perryto serve as energy secretary in December 2016. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	True	False	False	True	True
President Trump on Monday once again backed off his previous claim that climate change is a hoax but would not say whether or not he believed it was a man made problem. Speaking at a Red Cross center in Georgia where he was touring areas devastated by last weeks Hurricane Michael Trump said there is something there in response to a question on climate change from a reporter. There is something there man made or not the president said before deflecting to note that there have been previous storms that were much more intense and destructive than the recent slew of hurricanes to hit the Southeast. Trumps comments come a day after CBS aired an interview on 60 Minutes with the president who said he doesn't want to put the U.S. at a disadvantage in responding to climate change. I think something's happening. Something's changing and it'll change back again he said. I don't think it's a hoax. I think there's probably a difference. But I don't know that it's man made. I will say this I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars. I don't want to lose millions and millions of jobs. Trump called climate change a hoax in November 2012 when he sent a tweet stating The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non competitive. He later said he was joking about the Chinese connection but in years since has continued to call global warming a hoax. I'm not denying climate change he said in the interview. But it could very well go back. You know we're talking about over a ... millions of years. As far as the climate changing back temperature records kept by NASA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration show that the world hasn't had a cooler than average year since 1976 or a cooler than normal month since the end of 1985. Trump's comments came just days after a Nobel Prize winning Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change issued a warning that global warming would increase climate related risks to health livelihoods food security water supply human security and economic growth. The report detailed how Earth's weather health and ecosystems would be in better shape if the world's leaders could somehow limit future human caused warming. On Monday the president said that he had heard of the recent report and that hell have to take a look at it. Trump added I want crystal clear water I want the cleanest air on the planet. Citing concerns about the pact's economic impact Trump said in 2017 that the U.S. will leave the Paris climate accord. The agreement set voluntary greenhouse gas emission targets in an effort to lessen the impact of fossil fuels. Im truly an environmentalist he said on Monday in regards to leaving the Paris Agreement. But that doesnt mean we have to put one of our businesses out of business. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	True	True	False	True	False
When it comes to unraveling liberal hypocrisy Fox News host Tucker Carlson is arguably the best man for the job. And on his show Friday it took Carlson just 90 seconds to completely dismantle liberal outrage over President Donald Trumps decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement on climate change. Progressives across the country and around the world expressed outrage this week over Trumps decision to withdraw from the agreement. But many of those expressing outrage including world famous Hollywood actors and businessmen typically fly around the world in private jets that expel mind boggling amounts of carbon dioxide the exact substance climate alarmists say is the cause of climate change. Carlson explained on his show Friday that despite the fact that those upset about Trumps decision have not bothered to explain whats actually in the Paris agreement they assure us that that deal is the solution to the single most gravest threat this planet has ever faced rising levels of atmospheric CO2. Theyre dead serious about that. You can tell by the outraged looks on their faces and the purple rhetoric Carlson said. But hold on for a minute. Can we really be sure that these people take carbon emissions seriously? To answer that question Carlson said his team compared what the progressives say to how they live. They examined the lives of billionaire businessmen Richard Branson Elon Musk and Bill Gates in addition to Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Hillary Clinton. Branson says fossil fuels are dangerous and he calls Trumps decision America first Earth last. Now on the other hand Branson owes a Desault Falcon 50EX private jet and it burns more fuel on a single flight to Maui than youre gonna go through in a lifetime of trips to the shore Carlson explained. Elon Musk meanwhile is mad about global warming too. Yet he flies around in a Gulfstream G6500ER. Bill Gates says hes deeply concerned yet he still commutes in a 62 million bombardier BD700 global express. Can you imagine the gas milage that gets? Carlson continued. Leonardo DiCaprio says Trumps move threatens the livability of our planet and yet DiCaprio flew a private jet 4000 miles from Cannes France to New York to accept a climate award and then flew back privately Carlson went on to explain. Hillary Clinton tweeted that Trumps pullout was a historic mistake that leaves American workers and families behind. And yet speaking of workers and their families there probably werent a lot of those onboard last year when Hillary used a private jet to fly 20 miles from Marthas Vineyard to Nantucket for a fundraiser Carlson added. Trump announced his decision to withdraw the U.S. from the climate deal which was agreed to under former President Barack Obama on Thursday.	True	True	False	True	True
So does that mean paper bags which degrade more easily are a better option? Not necessarily. Climate change has become the biggest environmental issue of our time so its worth looking at things from an emissions standpoint. And on that score paper bags fare worse. Even though paper bags are made from trees which are in theory a renewable resource it takes significantly more energy to create pulp and manufacture a paper bag than it does to make a single use plastic bag from oil. Back in 2011 Britains Environment Agency conducted a life cycle assessment of various bag options looking at every step of the production process. The conclusion? Youd have to reuse a paper bag at least three times before its environmental impact equaled that of a high density polyethylene plastic bag used only once. And if plastic bags were reused repeatedly they looked even better. Paper bags can more easily be recycled or even composted bu t the British study found that even these actions didnt make a huge difference in the broader analysis. Unless youre reusing your paper bags a lot they look like a poorer option from a global warming standpoint. That same British analysis also looked into reusable options like heavier more durable plastic bags or cotton bags. And it found that these are only sustainable options if you use them very frequently. Making a cotton shopping bag is hardly cost free. Growing cotton requires a fair bit of energy land fertilizer and pesticides which can have all sorts of environmental effects from greenhouse gas emissions to nitrogen pollution in waterways.	True	True	False	True	True
WASHINGTON AP An agency ethics official at the Environmental Protection Agency says Administrator Scott Pruitts lease of a Capitol Hill condo tied to a prominent fossil fuels lobbyist didnt violate federal ethics rules. A memo signed by Kevin Minoli contends that Pruitts 50 a night rental payments constitute a fair market rate. The memo was dated March 30 the day after ABC News first reported Pruitt lived last year in condo co owned by the wife of Steven Hart a registered lobbyist whose firm pushed EPA to relax pollution regulations. Pruitts college aged daughter stayed in the second bedroom while interning at the White House last summer. Minolis memo says the 50 a night rate would total 1500 for 30 nights a month which he deemed to be a fair price. Pruitts lease however required him to pay just for nights he occupied in the unit. Pruitt actually paid a total of 6100 over the six month period he leased the property an average of about 1000 a month. But current rental listings for two bedroom apartments in the neighborhood show they typically go for far more than what Pruitt paid. A two bedroom townhome on the same block as the one leased by Pruitt was advertised for rent on Monday at 3750 a month. Another two bedroom unit on the next block was advertised as available for 4740 a month. The lease authorized use by the administrator and his immediate family specifically including his spouse and children and consistent with that provision of the lease his immediate family did stay there when they were in Washington D.C. Minoli wrote. The lease did not require payment when the property was not utilized. Neither of these two provisions render the rental cost under the lease as something other than market value. EPA did not provide a copy of Pruitts lease and did not respond to questions about how Minoli determined what he considered to be the fair market rate for the neighborhood. Also left unanswered was how Pruitt came to rent a property tied to a lobbyist with business interests involving his agency. The unusual arrangement has attracted attention in Washington where Pruitt has been under increasing scrutiny for this frequent taxpayer funded travel which has included first class airline tickets. Though federal regulations typically require federal officials to fly in coach the EPA chief has said he needed to sit in premium seats due to security concerns. Walter Shaub who ran the U.S. Office of Government Ethics until last year rated EPAs legal justification of Pruitts living arrangements as Total Baloney. He jokingly tweeted on Friday that he would like to rent the Harts prime location condo for 50 a night. Ill only pay for nights I use it but need it held vacant all other nights wrote Shaub who has become a frequent critic of what he sees as ethical lapses in the Trump administration. has certified that these are standard terms at market rate so it shouldnt matter to you that I dont run EPA. A Republican who previously served as the state attorney general of Oklahoma Pruitt has long been a champion of the oil and gas industry. In the year he has served as the Trump administrations top environmental official Pruitt has moved to scrap gut or replace numerous environmental regulations opposed by the industry while boosting the continued burning of fossil fuels which is the primary cause of climate change. In a statement to The Associated Press last week Steven Hart described Pruitt is a casual friend from Oklahoma with whom he had only occasional contact. Records show the powerhouse lobbying firm where Hart serves as chairman and CEO Williams and Jensen PLLC represents companies that include Exxon Mobil and Cheniere Energy Inc. In December Pruitt and members of his staff spent about 40000 in taxpayer funds to fly to Morocco to help encourage the North African kingdom to import liquefied natural gas from the United States. Cheniere is currently the only exporter of liquefied natural gas from the continental United States. The firm also represents OGE Energy Corp. an electricity company serving Oklahoma and Arkansas. Copies of Pruitts daily calendar obtained by the AP through a public records request show that Pruitt meet in his EPA office with two top OGE executives and a registered lobbyist from Harts firm in March 2017 when he was living at the condo. In October EPA announced it would rewrite the Clean Power Plan an Obama era regulation that sought to limit planet warming carbon emissions from coal fired power plants like those operated by OGE which paid Harts firm 400000 in lobbying fees in 2017.	True	False	False	True	True
A mega blaze raging across a 60km 37 mile front north of the Australian city of Sydney cannot currently be put out fire officials have warned. The blaze across 300000 hectares 1150 sq m is just an hour's drive from the nation's most populous city. People who cannot defend their property from approaching fires have been told they should leave immediately. Since October bushfires have killed six people and destroyed more than 700 homes across Australia. The severity of the blazes so early in the fire season has caused alarm and prompted calls for greater action to tackle climate change. How are animals faring in the fires? Fires have also raged across Queensland Victoria South Australia Western Australia and Tasmania. What's the latest on the ground? Several fires have combined to form the mega blaze north of Sydney although more than a dozen locations are affected across New South Wales. At one point on Friday nine fires had been raised to emergency level warnings although these had decreased markedly amid a brief respite in conditions later in the day. The north Sydney blazes were sending black fumes across the city causing a rise in medical problems. New South Wales Rural Fire Service RFS deputy commissioner Rob Rogers told ABC We cannot stop these fires they will just keep burning until conditions ease and then we'll try to do what we can to contain them. He said the 60km stretch from Hawkesbury to Singleton was just fire that whole way. The RFS website listed five fires roughly in a line from Nullo Mountain to Wollombi as out of control at 0500 local time on Saturday 1800 GMT Friday with another out of control at Green Wattle Creek south west of Sydney. Video footage from the Orangeville area showed firefighters running from a wall of fire and the Walkabout Wildlife Park has evacuated hundreds of animals. The Bureau of Meteorology BOM also said that some fires were too big to put out. Fire officials in Ingleburn warned If your property is not prepared for the bushfire season and you're not sure you are able or capable of defending your property if a fire approaches you need to leave straight away. Firefighters from Canada were briefed in Sydney on Friday and will be deployed across New South Wales over the weekend to be joined by teams from the US. There appears to be little respite. RFS founder and former commissioner Phil Koperberg told the Sydney Morning Herald People are nervous and they have a right to be... the worst is yet to come. Tuesday is the next big concern with temperatures inland of Sydney likely to reach 40C plus. Some firefighters have expressed concern that volunteer numbers might not be enough and that there are inadequate water supplies. One said the fires were all ticking time bombs without rain those fires won't be put out. Sydney may be blanketed in smoke for weeks if not months RFS Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons said. Is this fire season particularly bad? It hasn't come close to the fatalities of 2009 when nearly 200 people died but the scale of the damage has been huge. How bad is bushfire smoke for health? More than 1.6 million hectares of land have burned in New South Wales alone. The season has hit earlier than normal and has been exacerbated by drought conditions. Mr Fitzsimmons said There is an absolute lack of moisture in the soil a lack of moisture in the vegetation... you are seeing fires started very easily and they are spreading extremely quickly and they are burning ridiculously intensely. The BOM says that climate change has led to an increase in extreme heat events and raised the severity of other natural disasters such as drought. Last week the bureau noted that NSW had endured its driest spring season on record. It also warned that Australia's coming summer was predicted to bring similar conditions to last year's the nation's hottest summer on record. Australia may see 50C days 'in decades' The government has been criticised over its efforts to address climate change. PM Scott Morrison has dismissed accusations linking the crisis to his government's policies. What could be wiped out by temperature rise Hundreds of bushfire survivors and farmers converged on the nation's capital Canberra this week in protest. One woman displayed the charred remains of her home outside Parliament on which she had written Morrison your climate crisis destroyed my home.	False	False	False	True	True
This story was originally published bytheGuardian. It appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration. When I was a ranger at Crater Lake national park in the 1980s the average snowfall at headquarters was 500 inches a year and snow could accumulate at 2 inches an hour. One of my jobs as ranger was to shovel out the fire hydrants every day so that if there was a fire in the hotel headquarters or housing wed be able to fight it. Our maintenance staff plowed roads for safe visitor access and rangers patrolled on skis regularly performing rescues. This was all part of ensuring that in accordance with the National Park Services founding charter the parks are unimpaired for the enjoyment of future generations. Leaving the parks open without these essential staff is equivalent to leaving the Smithsonian museums open without any staff to protect the priceless artifacts. Yet as a result of the government shutdown which furloughed most park staff this is what has happened. It is a violation of the stewardship mandate motivated only by politics. While the majority of the public will be respectful there will always be a few who take advantage of the opportunity to do lasting damage. In 2016 the NPS hosted 320 million visitors more than all of the Disney parks major league baseball football basketball soccer and Nascar combined. Many of our national parks operate much like a small city with the National Park Service employees providing all the same services trash collection police and fire response water and sewer systems electrical power bus service and parking management. The national parks differ from a city in that they are also designed to protect some of the United States most precious resources such as the Merced River of Yosemite Valley the elk and bison of Yellowstone and the iconic Lincoln Memorial. When Congress and the executive branches of government failed to appropriate funding in 1998 and 2013 the government shut down for extended periods and the national parks were closed to the public. The logic was that if the employees were furloughed and could not perform their stewardship and safety responsibilities then the only way to meet the requirements of unimpaired was to close the parks. During the 16 day shutdown of 2013 the closure of the national parks became the public face of the shutdown with thousands of articles in the press and recurring images of gates and park closure signs. There was enormous political pressure to reopen the parks culminating in a Republican House joint hearing where I as the NPS director was grilled for five hours over the decision to close the parks during the shutdown. Though unintended the closure of the national parks became a rallying cry for the public to force Congress to finally pass appropriation legislation and reopen the federal government. This time surely to avoid the public outcry theTrump administration decided to keep the national parks open while still furloughing the majority of the NPS staff. As the shutdown extends and the parks are left open we will begin to see the ugly consequences. Trash is already accumulating in parks such as Yosemite and will attract wildlife. This could result in tragic humanbear encounters or habituate bears to human food meaning the animals will have to be relocated or euthanized in the future. Civil war battlefield parks are seeing increases in artifact theft by people with metal detectors. Human waste has overwhelmed toilets at Joshua Tree and Point Reyes and has proliferated along trails rivers and streams potentially affecting water quality and certainly the visitor experience. Roads normally open in Mt. Rainier and Crater Lake national parks are accumulating so much snow that they will have to be bulldozed to reopenat a much higher expense and with prolonged delays. Visitor centers are closed across the parks depriving visitors of information on hazardous conditions trail closures and wildlife activity. Wildlife normally fully protected will be subject to poaching or threats such as the recent break in at the endangered Devils Hole pupfish enclosure in Nevada. Visitors to parks are reporting dogs off leash drone activity off highway vehicles and the public walking on or near fragile resources such as the hot pools and thermal features of Yellowstone. There are other consequences of a shutdown that are less visible but very consequential. The control of the spread of invasive species into national parks stops allowing some to gain a foothold that will be much harder to control. Long term monitoring sites that measure snow depth rainfall air quality water quality or pollution will go unmaintained. Research scientists working on complex issues that only occur during this period such as pronghorn migration may miss their window. These disruptions of data collection make the results less reliable for understanding ecosystem dynamics or climate change. Author Wallace Stegner once said that National parks are the best idea we ever had. Absolutely American absolutely democratic they reflect us at our best rather than our worst. Now left unattended and gathering trash and human waste the Trump administration has let them reflect us at our worst. Jonathan BJarvis was the 18thdirector of the National Park Service. He is now the executive director for the Institute for Parks People and Biodiversity at the University of California Berkeley.	False	False	False	False	False
5 Major Crops In The Crosshairs Of Climate Change Climate change is coming like a freight train or a rising tide. And our food so dependent on rain and suitable temperatures sits right in its path. The plants that nourish us won't disappear entirely. But they may have to move to higher and cooler latitudes or farther up a mountainside. Some places may find it harder to grow anything at all because there's not enough water. Here are five foods and food growing places that will see the impact. Wheat source of bread and a foundation of life in much of the world will suffer from hotter temperatures and the country where the impact may be greatest also is among least well equipped to cope with a shortfall. India is likely to see a large drop in wheat production due to heat stress about 8 percent if average global temperatures rise by 1 degree Celsius according to one recent study. Temperatures are expected to rise more than that according to a recent report from the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change limiting climate change to 1.5 degrees Celsius will require heroic and dramatic action. It will take significant cuts in greenhouse gas emissions within 15 years plus efforts to recapture some of the carbon that's already been emitted perhaps by planting new forests. Globally though wheat may not be in short supply in a warmer world. Russia which is already a major wheat exporter may be able to expand the amount of land devoted to this crop. Despite Georgia's claim to be the Peach State California is the country's biggest peach producer. Farmers there grow about half of the country's fresh peaches and almost all of the fruit that's canned and processed in other ways. Many fruit trees including peaches have a peculiar requirement. If they don't experience enough chill during wintertime they get confused and don't bloom properly. No bloom no harvest. The peach trees currently grown in California's Central Valley require about 700 chilling hours during the winter. But scientists are predicting that by the end of the century only 10 percent of the valley will reliably see that much chilling. And even if plant breeders create peach varieties that need less chilling there's another problem Peach trees also yield less fruit when it gets too hot in summertime. Coffee can't take freezing temperatures but it doesn't like extreme heat either at least the highly prized Arabica type doesn't. So it's mainly grown on relatively cool mountainsides in the tropics. Brazil is the biggest coffee producer in the world by far but as the globe warms up most of its main coffee growing regions probably won't be suitable for growing this crop anymore due to heat as well as more frequent rainstorms. Coffee could move to cooler parts of the country but researchers don't think those new growing areas will make up for what's lost. Meanwhile rising temperatures could threaten native coffee trees that grow wild in the forests of Ethiopia and central Africa. The wild trees represent an irreplaceable storehouse of coffee's original genetic diversity. The world's commercial coffee trees are genetically very similar to each other and those genetically diverse wild trees could be the source of genetic traits that plant breeders may need in order to create commercial trees that can thrive in tomorrow's climate. Some of the wild trees however are preserved in gene banks in Ethiopia and Latin America. Nothing says Iowa quite like fields of corn. Climate models though see a different future. They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes most of them bad for growing corn. Rain will come less often and when it comes the storms will be more intense neither of which is helpful for a crop that demands frequent rains but doesn't do a good job of preventing soil erosion. In addition corn suffers when it gets too hot especially when it's too hot at night. Add it all up and one study estimates that corn yields in Iowa will fall substantially anywhere from 15 percent to an astounding 50 percent. By 2100 the Corn Belt is going to be in Canada not in the United States says Jason Clay senior vice president for food and markets at the World Wildlife Fund. So what will replace corn on Iowa's fertile land? According to one study by the end of the century this part of the Midwest will be more suited for growing cotton soybeans grass and forests. California the biggest single source of America's fresh vegetables and nuts and the primary source of almonds for the entire world is a dramatic illustration of how subtle shifts in climate can have huge effects. California's farms rely heavily on snow that piles up in the Sierra Nevada mountains during the winter and then slowly melts during the summer delivering a vital flow of water to the state's irrigation canals. As the climate warms though winter precipitation will arrive more often as rain and the snow that does fall will melt much more quickly leaving farmers scrambling for water to keep crops alive in late summer. Also there will be more variation from year to year wet years will be wetter and dry years will be even dryer. Both trends increase the chances that from time to time farmers will face catastrophic shortages of water. And that's especially bad for tree crops of which almonds are the biggest because losing an orchard is much more devastating than losing a single crop of say tomatoes. California's farmers may be forced to reduce the amount of land devoted to orchards since there there's a chance that they will not survive a major drought.	True	True	False	True	True
Thousands of European activists plan to blockade a large German lignite mine this week the latest protest of a growing climate civil disobedience movement. While school students have held Fridays for Future rallies for months protesters of the Extinction Rebellion group launched in Britain have risked arrest with more confrontational protests. From next Thursday to Monday Europe's veteran Ende Gelaende EG anti coal activists will hold their sixth large scale blockade of an open pit coal mine and power plants run by German energy giant RWE. The group's online action consensus says In view of the urgency of the climate crisis we consider it necessary and appropriate to go one step further from public protest to civil disobedience. Here is a look at this growing form of environmental activism. Tadzio Mueller a German organiser of the movement argues that massively breaking the rules ... is the only thing that works to prevent the status quo in the face of climate chaos. Azna Lecuyer of the French branch of Ende Gelaende agrees that we feel a passion for actions of civil disobedience especially among young people. This is reflected in demand for training courses everywhere and by the very rapid rise in skills of new activists. Lecuyer stresses that non violence is part of our action consensus it is forbidden to harm the security forces site employees or to damage the equipment. During past protests at the nearby Hambacher Forest police and RWE company staff have accused the most militant protesters of having hurled rocks or molotov cocktails. The Ende Gelaende movement has distanced itself from those environmental militants and any acts of violence. The EG activistsdressed in trademark white overalls symbolising the toxicity of fossil fuelsplan to march from their protest camp to the Garzweiler mine about 10 kilometres six miles away. They hope to evade police roadblocks and enter the vast open pit mining area to occupy strategic locations and technical infrastructure such as rails access roads and excavators. Meanwhile they plan to organise in so called affinity groups of up to 10 people of similar physical fitnessand a willingness to be arrested for trespassing and other offences. Before the protest activists attend training workshops to learn non violent resistance techniques such as locking their arms and legs in formation with names such as the little train or the turtle. What risks do protesters take? Occupying an industrial site is illegal under German law and volunteer legal advisers are on hand to support activists before and after they are arrested. They advise them to say as little as possible while in custody. Other risks lurk at the Garzweiler site. A vast moonscape like terrain where the surface can be unstable after rain or drought it is criss crossed by high power cables and dug up by building sized excavators. When breaking up protesters' blockades German police have in the past employed high powered water jets and pepper spray. Lecuyer says that some activists experience a form of trauma ... due to the high emotions from stress and excitement and the physical effort because you have to walk for miles in groups to the target pass police roadblocks sometimes under water cannon or pepper spray and then hold the blockade.	True	False	False	True	False
Using an approach described by experts as not scientifically sound the Trump administration will soon change the way it evaluates the harm from coal plants spewing more pollution into the air according to a Monday New York Times report. Trump's Environmental Protection Agency EPA is planning to release a new rule to measure the impact of air pollution on health risks. The rules will be favorable to dirty energy producers like the coal industry an industry that Trump's EPA chief Andrew Wheeler used to lobby for. And to allow that to happen experts told the Times the EPA's new rule will simply ignore decades of high quality research and use unfounded medical assumptions to claim that air pollution does less harm to people than peer reviewed scientific data indicates. One result of the new scientifically unsound method would be to magically decrease the 1400 premature deaths that Trump's changes to environmental rules were previously projected to cause. Trump's ultimate goal is to roll back improvements President Obama made that limit the pollution coal plants produce. Obama's rules would have reduced the amount of dangerous particulate matter in the air by gradually moving energy production to cleaner forms of energy and shutting down older dirtier coal plants. Particulate matter is extremely harmful and it leads to a large number of premature deaths Richard Revesz an environmental law expert at New York University told the Times. Trump wants to toss out the Obama era rules with ones that allow older coal plants to stay in business longer and continue risking lives by spewing particulates into the air. The person in charge of air quality at the EPA William Wehrum was a lawyer and lobbyist for the fossil fuel industry before joining the EPA. He admitted to the Times that the new method would allow the Trump administration to claim its other changes would cause fewer deaths. Trump has a long record of anti environment and anti science positions and so do his political appointees. Now those officials are preparing to discard sound scientific methods to pretend that their actions will be less deadly than they really are. Published with permission of The American Independent.	True	True	False	True	False
The Trump administration will repeal the Clean Power Plan the centerpiece of President Barack Obamas effort to fight climate change and will ask the public to recommend ways it could be replaced according to an internal Environmental Protection Agency document. The draft proposal represents the administrations first substantive step toward rolling back the plan which was designed to curb greenhouse gas emissions from the power sector after months of presidential tweets and condemnations of Mr. Obamas efforts to reduce climate warming pollution. But it also lays the groundwork for new presumably weaker regulations by asking for the public and industry to offer ideas for a replacement. In 2016 when it launched the plan at Obamas behest the EPA declared that theClean Power Plan was a vital cost effective way of combating climate change which would ultimately benefit the U.S. consumer. However an independent study by the Manhattan Institute showed this to be nonsense. The EPAs cost benefit analysis wasfallacious it had drastically underestimated the costs which it claimed would be 9 billion a year but which the Manhattan Institute showed would be closer to 40 billion and it would make no measurable difference to climate change. Hence Trumps election trail promise and executive orderin March this yearrequesting EPA chief Scott Pruitt to rescind the CPP. This was part ofa wider war on the Green Blob which has also involved withdrawing from the UNs Paris climate accord. Had it been implemented the CPP would have required U.S. power plants to lower their carbon emissions by 2030 to 32 percent below 2005 levels. Since carbon dioxide is a natural by product of almost every industrial process the knock on damage to the U.S economy in the form of lost jobs and higher energy prices would have been huge. Note though that the CPP is not being scrapped altogether but rather being delayed indefinitely through judicial fudge. Janet McCabe who headed the EPAs Office of Air and Radiation under Obama said an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking could take years meaning the replacement for CPP could be a long way off. It certainly will draw the process out she said. Some conservative groups have urged the EPA to scrap the CPP without replacing it effectively ending U.S. regulation of carbon emissions. But some industry groups want a replacement to give utilities regulatory certainty and avoid possible lawsuits by environmental groups. So while its good news that the CPP will probably never be implemented the bad news is how difficult it is even for a determinedly skeptical president like Trump to unravel environmental regulation. Even within his own cabinet there are numerous siren voices Javanka Secretary of State Tillerson Economics advisor Gary Cohn urging Trump to maintain his predecessors disastrous green policies. This fudge isnt perfect and it still doesnt solve the problem of the EPAs Obama era Endangerment Finding on carbon dioxide which ludicrously treats a harmless life enhancing trace gas as an existential threat. But at least its a step in the right direction the green blob just lost another of its tentacles.	True	False	False	False	False
California's reign as the U.S. state with the worst air pollution continuesas Los Angeles is again the nation's smoggiest metro area according to a report released Wednesday. LAisn't alone when it comes to smog chokedcities in California seven of the nation's top 10 smoggiest cities are in the Golden State including other sprawling cities such as San Francisco San Diego and Sacramento. Los Angeles has had the worst smog for 19 years of the 20 year history of the report. The bad news came fromthe American Lung Association's annual State of the Air report which covers the years 2015 2017. Smog forms on warm sunny days and is made worse by chemicals that exit vehicle tailpipes and power plant and industrial smokestacks. Warmer temperatures make ozone more likely to form. The report covers the two main types of air pollution that plague the USA smog also known as ground level ozone and soot technically known as particulate matter. Want news from USA TODAY on WhatsApp?Click this link on your mobile device to get started The news isn't any good in California when it comes to soot eitherFresno has the nation's highest levels of that form of air pollution and sixof the nation's 10 sootiest cities are again in California. Soot pollution is deadlier and more of a health hazard than smog causingmore premature deaths and lung cancer the lung association said. California's air quality is worsening despite having the strongest environmental regulations in the nation said John Balmes of the University of California San Francisco at a news conference Tuesday. California's soaring population and topography allow air pollution to overcome the state's strict environmental laws the lung association said. The boom in people brings an increase in cars and trucks on the roads and many of those people live in valleys and basins right where pollution tends to settle. Nearly year round sunny skies don't help Those picture perfect days are a major factor in high levels of ozone pollution. The state would be much worse off without its strict laws on tailpipe pollution and eliminating coal fired power plants. The bad news about air pollutionspread nationwide in thereport Smog and soot choked air is worsening amid heat waves and bigger wildfires as environmental protections are rolled back. Many cities increased the number of days when sootsoared to record breaking levels the report says andmore cities suffered from higher numbers of days when smogreached unhealthy levels. About 141 million Americans live with unhealthful levels of air pollution the report says placing them at risk for premature death lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm. This is a higher number than either of the reports from 2017 and 2018. On the other end of the scale only six metro areas recorded no days when smog or short term soot pollution reached unhealthy levels according to the report Bangor Maine Burlington Vermont Honolulu Lincoln Nebraska Wilmington North Carolina and the Melbourne Florida metro area.	True	False	True	False	True
Governor Jerry Brown has expressed an interest in barring the sale of vehicles powered by internal combustion engines Mary Nichols chairman of theCalifornia Air Resources Board said in an interview Friday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.The earliest such a ban is at least a decade away she said. Brown one of the most outspoken elected official in the U.S. about the need for policies to combat climate change would be replicating similar moves by China France and the U.K. Ive gotten messages from the governor asking Why havent we done something already? Nichols said referring to Chinas planned phase out of fossil fuel vehicle sales. The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California. To reach the ambitious levels of reduction in greenhouse gas emissions we have to pretty much replace all combustion with some form of renewable energy by 2040 or 2050 Nichols said. Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward. Instituting such a policy in California would affect the entire car industry globally due to the massive size of Californias car market. Over2 million new passenger vehicles were sold and registered in the nations most populous state last year more thanthan the entire nations of Spain France and Italy. California has had the right to write its own pollution rules since the 1970s underwaivers granted by the EPA. But its unlikelythe Trump administration wouldapprove such a plan forcing California to take a different legal route. According to Motor Trendmagazine Nichols saysCalifornia is consideringregulating the types of cars that can be registered in the state or have access to highways. We certainly wouldnt expect to get a waiver for that from the EPA she toldBloomberg. I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get that result. China plans to endsales of combustion enginevehicles in 2030. Other countries like France and the U.K. plan to follow suit a decade later. California has not yet specified a date to copy Chinas policy. Tim Donnellyis a former California State Assemblyman and Author currently on a book tour for his new bookPatriot Not Politician Win or Go Homeless. He also ran for governor in 2014.	False	False	False	False	True
We cannot live in a world that is burning one young woman said that is melting. Climate change is already affecting millions of people another young woman claimed. This could lead to mass extinction. We are not here to guilt individuals that forgot to recycle a cup last week another young woman said. We are here to hold cowardice sic politicians accountable who have caused this damage by turning their heads in fear. Those 12 years left to stop carbon emissions a young woman yelled. Is now down to 10 years and five months. One young woman said she wanted to acknowledge Hurricane Dorian a storm that is still in the Atlantic Ocean and is not expected to make landfall somewhere in Florida until early next week. It is ravaging the coast of Florida the girl said. It is not a coincidence. It isa direct impact of the climate crisis. The youths held signs that read Greed Kills Help My Home is on Fire and 527 Years of Indigenous Resistance and chanted in between speeches phrases such as What do we want? Climate Justice. When do we want it? Now. No more coal no more oil keep your carbon in the soil and Waters are rising people are dying. A speaker said that the protest was not the goal of the movement by a catalyst for action including a planned global climate strike on September 20 just three days ahead of a U.N. climate summit that is expected to draw leaders from around the world and where Thunberg will be a special guest and speaker. The speaker listed the groups demands which will be presented at the U.N. summit A just and livable world where fossil fuels are left out of every decision around the world 100 percent renewable energy around the globe and holding polluters accountable for causing the climate crisis. The publicist for the New York City protest refused to speak with Breitbart News when an inquiry was made about Thunbergs appearance and about Alexandria Villaseor a 14 year old who claims she has been protesting every Friday at the United Nations for 38 weeks. Reporters on the scene were kept from interviewing Thunberg during the protest. Thunberg gained international attention when she cut school a year ago to appear before the Swedish parliament where she called on young people around the world to cut school every Friday to protest climate change. It is not clear how many students in New York are still on summer break or skipped classes but Thunbergs publicity team announced that the 16 year old is taking a sabbatical from her high school studies to concentrate on her activism. After attending the U.N. summit Thunberg and her father will travel in the United States Canada and Mexico before attending a second U.N. climate change summit in Chile in December. Thunberg has said she is not sure how she will get back to Sweden and no details have been released on how she will travel around the North and South American continents without the help of fossil fuel powered transportation.	False	False	False	True	False
Low lying Pacific atolls United Nations officials warn are on the front line of climate change due to rising sea levels are on the whole stable or increasing in sizeaccording to a study. The study published in the journal WIREs Climate Change in September adds to the growing evidence that small island nations in the Pacific and Indian Oceans are proving resilient to rising seas in the face of predictions they may eventually become uninhabitable. In total 88.6 of islands were either stable or increased in size author Virginie K. E. Duvat of the University of La Rochelle wrote in thestudy. Importantly islands located in ocean regions affected by rapid sea level rise showed neither contraction nor marked shoreline retreat which indicates that they may not be affected yet by the presumably negative that is erosive impact of sea level rise Duvat wrote. That may come as a shock in light of reports that Pacific Islanders in places like Kiribati are becoming climate refugees because of rising sea levels which many scientists blame on greenhouse gas emissions. When the United Nations met in 2015 to hash out the Paris climate accord Kiribati joined other island nations in calling for an international agreement to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. Its a matter of survival former Kiribati President Anote Tong said after meeting with former U.S. President Barack Obama that year. Nearly 200 countries eventually signed onto the Paris climate accord. A 2017 CBS News feature on Kiribatis plight claimed that scientists predict the island nation could be uninhabitable within decades and that high tides that inundate their homes already contaminate their water and kill their crops. However Duvats study found Kiribatis North Tarawa island chain was stable with most islands gaining land and that the South Tarawa chain actually increased in size showing the most growth of any atoll studied. In another case one Maldives official predicted rising sea levels would completely cover this Indian Ocean nation of 1196 small islands within the next 30 years. That warning was made in 1988 amid heightened urgency about global warming. Instead Duvatfound that more than 70 percent of the Maldives Huvadhoo islands were stable and that 6 percent had increased in size and only 23 percent decreased in size. The reanalyzed global data reveal that atolls did not lose land area and that 73.1 of islands were stable in land area including most settled islands while 15.5 of islands increased and 11.4 decreased in size Duvat wrote. Scientists worry that future warming could pose problems for low lying islands many of which are no more than a few feet above the water but other human interventions ocean currents and storms likely exert an even bigger role than climate changes. For example Duvat found that land reclamation and causeway construction caused major changes in island land area and configuration not only in urban but also in rural atolls. Also the removal and the clearing of the native vegetation respectively caused marked changes in island configuration and shoreline destabilization on some islands Duvat wrote. Studies have increasingly shown theres been no widespread disappearance of low lying atolls and coral islands have despite rising sea levels. RELATED North Carolina Gov Roy Cooper Says New Green Policies Will Lessen The Impact Of Hurricanes The United Nations latest reportin October noted that models and other evidence indicate that unconstrained Pacific atolls have kept pace with sea level rise with little reduction in size or experienced a net gain in land. Indeed a February study by New Zealand researcher Paul Kench found eight of Tuvalus nine atolls and three quarters of its reef islands grew over the last four decades. The study findings may seem counter intuitive given that sea level has been rising in the region over the past half century but the dominant mode of change over that time on Tuvalu has been expansion not erosionKench said in February. The U.N. report however also warns that with continued warming Small islands are projected to be at risk and very sensitive to coastal climate change and other stressors. Duvat found only instability on islands smaller than 25 acres but even then only a small number actually decreased in size.	True	False	False	True	False
The shift in government policy likely will force Musk and his investors to revamp his sprawling business empire which relies on government subsidies and on preferencesfor solar energy over natural fuels. For examplethe Los Angeles Times reported in 2015 thatMusks battery factory in Reno Nevada is reported to have enjoyed roughly 1.3 billion in state subsidies and his SolarCity companyhas gotten 1.5 billion from federal solar regulations. In California the state legislature allowed his Tesla Motors to sell more than 500 million worth of government granted carbon energy credits said the Los Angeles Times and the states anti pollution agency allows theowners of battery operated cars to use low traffic high occupancy lanes in gridlocked Los Angeles. Musks solar energy company in New York state has reportedly gained 1 billion in near term and short term investment from Democratic politicians said the newspaper. However those financial gains for Musk depend on higher energy taxes for the nations established manufacturing sectors especially in Midweststates.Breitbart described the economic impact of the climate agreement Unsurprisingly Musk is a strong advocate for growing carbon taxes on natural fuels. In a January 2017 interview with Gizmodo Musk declared CO2 carbon diooxide isnt exactly pollution but it does cause warming and slight acidification of water if very large quantities are dug from deep underground and added to the surface cycle. The problem is the age old tragedy of the commons. The common good being consumed is atmospheric and oceanic carbon capacity which currently has a price of zero. This results in an error in market signals and far more CO2 is generated than should be. We wont ever go to zero CO2 but the rate over time should be dropped far below what it is today. Start low and increase it until the desired outcome is achieved. This can be offset by a reduction in other taxes like sales tax which is quite regressive. This is analogous to taxing cigarettes and alcohol more than fruits and vegetables which everybody agrees makes sense. We should have higher taxes on the things that science says are probably bad for us than those that are probably good for us. New York investors including Goldman Sachs have made big bets on the preservation of the Paris deal according to The HuffingtonPost.	True	False	False	True	True
The Democratic candidates sounded the alarm on climate change in the first presidential debates but the discussion in June was so limited that they never really got into the details of how theyd solve the crisis. It was a different story this time around. It took more than an hour to get there Tuesday night but during the 12 minutes of discussion of global warming policy two of the frontrunnersElizabeth Warren and Bernie Sandersbecame the first candidates to substantively embrace versions of a Green New Deal in the debates. The concept of a Green New Dealpushed by lawmakers like Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y.has become a favorite idea for progressives. It outlines a vision for economic infrastructure and clean energy investment while aggressively ramping down to net zero emissions as soon as possible. Elizabeth Warren didnt actually use the words Green Neal Deal or tout AOCs specific resolution Tuesday night but she did capture its ethos by touting her plan for investing 2 trillion over 10 years in green manufacturing. The climate crisis is the existential crisis for our world she said. I have a plan for a green industrial policy that takes advantage of the fact that we do what we do best and that is innovate and create. She promised that her plan would produce roughly 1.2 million manufacturing jobs. This could revitalize huge cities across this country she added. Bernie Sanders also embraced the Green New Deal on stage albeit briefly. The Green New Deal is a bold idea he said. We can create millions of good paying jobs. We can rebuild communities in rural America that have been devastated. As he often does Sanders pledged to fight back againstthe fossil fuel industry noting that it continues to receive tax breaks and subsidies adding up to hundreds of billions of dollars globally. I get a little bit tired of Democrats afraid of big ideas. Republicans are not afraid of big ideas he said. Please dont tell me that we cannot take on the fossil fuel industry. Other candidates on stage were far more critical of Green New Deal policies. Former Maryland Rep. John Delaney pointed to his plan for a carbon price and investing in technology to capture carbon from the air. But he argued a Green New Deal would tie progress on climate to other things that are completely unrelated to climate like universal health care and guaranteed jobs. Former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooperwho has advocated working collaboratively with the oil and gas industry to address climate changecalled Green New Deal proposals a disaster at the ballot box. You might as well FedEx the election to Donald Trump Hickenlooper said. Montana Gov. Steve Bullock expressed doubt that such an ambitious program could make it through Congress. Lets not just talk about plans that are written for press releases that will go nowhere else if we cant even get a Republican to acknowledge that the climate is changing he said. Nearly every Democratic presidential candidate has now released a climate change plan or at least part of a plan. Climate change has consistently ranked as one of the top concerns among Democratic primary votersand polls suggest that Trumps climate denial is deeply unpopular. The relatively brief segment devoted to climate change Tuesday is unlikely to satisfy environmental activists. They have pressed for an official DNC climate change debate because they argue its needed to finally allot candidates the time to debate their plans in depthand to highlight the fact that President Donald Trump has no answers himself. Frankly I dont think we see an indicator that candidates arent willing to talk about solutions Greenpeaces US climate campaigns director Janet Redman told me after the last debate in June. But I think they need more time to state the case.	False	False	False	False	False
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd our email newsletter. WASHINGTON The Trump administration has completed its plan to roll back major offshore drilling safety regulations that were put in place after the Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster in 2010 that killed 11 people and caused the worst oil spill in American history. The Interior Departments Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement which was established after the spill in the Gulf of Mexico and regulates offshore oil and gas drilling has finalized a proposal for loosening the regulations as part of President Trumps efforts to ease restrictions on fossil fuel companies and encourage domestic energy production. The rules created potentially unduly burdensome requirements for oil and natural gas production operators on the Outer Continental Shelf without meaningfully increasing safety of the workers or protection of the environment says the new 176 page rule which is scheduled in the coming days to be published in the Federal Register before becoming the administrations final policy. This rule supports the administrations objective of facilitating energy dominance by encouraging increased domestic oil and gas production and reducing unnecessary burdens on stakeholders while ensuring safety and environmental protection the new rule says.	True	False	False	False	True
President Trump Donald John TrumpSunday shows preview Shutdown negotiations continue after White House immigration proposal Rove warns Senate GOP Don't put only focus on base Ann Coulter blasts Trump shutdown compromise We voted for Trump and got Jeb! MOREin an early morning tweet on Sunday suggested global warming could be helpful as a massive snowstorm dropped several inches of snow and sent temperatures plunging across the Midwest and swaths of the Northeast United States. Be careful and try staying in your house Trump advised. Large parts of the Country are suffering from tremendous amounts of snow and near record setting cold. Amazing how big this system is. Wouldnt be bad to have a little of that good old fashioned Global Warming right now! The president who hasrepeatedly cast doubt on the existence and effects of climate change has regularly cited significant winter storms to mock the concept of global warming. He sent similar tweets in 2017 and 2011. The current winter storm prompted the governor of Kansas to declare a state of emergency canceled thousands of flights and dumped more than a foot of snow across most of upstate New York. Falling temperatures were expected to create icy surfaces further increasing the risk of travel. Trump and others who deny climate change have cited cold temperatures and winter storms to dismiss global warming but experts have noted there is a difference between the climate and weather. A government report issued late last yearconcluded that climate change could cost the United States billions of dollars annually within decades if greenhouse gases arent dramatically reduced and could worsen environmental disasters like wildfires and flooding. Its findings aligned with those of the broader scientific community. The study mandated to be released every four years under the National Climate Assessment from the multiagency Global Change Research Program was conducted by hundreds of government and external scientists. Trump dismissedthe report saying he did not believe its findings and disputing that climate change is man made.	True	True	True	True	False
India's southern state of Tamil Nadu is poised to become a global leader in wind power according to a new report. But first the state must overcome its addiction to coal writes Nityanand Jayaraman. The report by the US based Institute of Energy Economics and Financial Analysis predicts that by 2027 more than half of Tamil Nadu's power will be generated by zero emissions technologies notably solar and wind. The state's current capacity to generate wind power 7.85 gigawatts GW is already impressive considering it is higher than that of Denmark or Sweden. But the report estimates that it could double over the next decade and that solar installations too could increase six fold to reach 13.5GW. If that happens clean renewable energy would account for 67 of Tamil Nadu's capacity which could revive the state's debt ridden utility. But in order to harvest that potential Tamil Nadu needs to transform its power sector. Tamil Nadu's population is three times that of Australia and its per capita GDP is on a par with Sri Lanka and Ukraine. It could prove to be an example of how emerging economies can grow while slashing their carbon emissions. Assuming Tamil Nadu's GDP will grow at an annual rate of 7 the report suggests that much of this growth can be driven by renewables. Installation and operating costs for wind and solar power have dropped low enough to compete with established but dirty sources of power such as coal. But that is where reality tempers the possibilities. The report argues that not only does Tamil Nadu not need coal or nuclear power but that these projects are financially fraught. Electricity from new coal power plants is likely to be twice as expensive as solar or wind power. But despite the bleak financial prospects Tamil Nadu currently has 22.5GW of coal power plants in the pipeline. Pursuing these ventures will weaken the state utility's finances and its ability to invest in smarter cleaner alternatives. There are other challenges too. Wind power can be generated only from May to October. Even during those months production cannot reach its peak because the state does not have a large enough grid to convey excess electricity to other states. So they will have to slow down generation from other sources. This also means the state is unable to import cheap power from other states during the remaining seven months when wind power is not feasible. Work is afoot to change this but its not guaranteed that the improvements will ensure that the grid can cope with the predicted generation. Integrating power from seasonal sources like wind requires a smart grid one with a sophisticated system of supply and management that can adjust to variations in demand. On this count too Tamil Nadu has a long way to go. But the biggest limiting factor for the state is likely to be water. Between climate change and reckless exploitation and pollution of rivers streams and lakes Tamil Nadu is staring at a bleak water future. At least 60 of groundwater resources in the state are assessed as over exploited critical or semi critical according to India's Central Ground Water Board. In April 2017 Tamil Nadu farmers camped out in India's capital Delhi staging dramatic protests stuffing dead rats in their mouths stripping themselves naked in front of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home and drinking their own urine to underscore the intensity of the drought back home. In June 2017 villagers in Tamil Nadu's parched Ramanathapuram district were protesting against a solar power plant they alleged that more than 200000 litres of scarce water was being extracted illegally from bore wells to clean the 250000 solar modules daily. Utility scale solar farms massive projects that supply power to the gird such as the one in Ramanathapuram need to be re evaluated especially if they are to run in areas where water is scarce. The report predicts that Tamil Nadu will have 10.3GW of utility scale solar installations by the end of this decade and only about 2GW of rooftop installations. Given that both the availability of sunlight and the demand for electricity are decentralised it makes sense to maximise rooftop solar installations rather than to invest in large solar parks. The overall direction if not the magnitude and rate of change laid out in the report is not just possible but essential both financially and environmentally. A healthy and environmentally sustainable future requires more than just switching from dirty coal to wind or solar power. But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	False	True	False	True	False
As Hurricane Michael pummeled the Gulf coast a less deadly but equally ferocious media storm formed around Florida Governor Rick Scott whose alleged climate change denial has been blamed for putting Floridians in harm's way. Viral videos New York Times op eds and Guardian contributors all highlighted Rick Scott's backward stance on climate change after Michael a powerful typhoon made landfall along the Florida Panhandle. According to these media reports and commentaries Scott's science denial has endangered Florida residents. In other words if Scott were more vocal about man made climate change Florida would have been better prepared for or perhaps could have even prevented the devastating hurricane. Florida is the state most endangered by climate change declares a video published by Now This. But Gov. Scott's strategy for dealing with it is denial. The New York Times' Nicholas Kristof also took Scott to task for his stance on climate change writing that alas denying climate change doesn't actually prevent it. He added Some folks will say this isn't the moment for politics. But don't we have a responsibility to mitigate the next disaster? It's true that Scott who is currently running for the Senate has shown little interest in highlighting or combating the alleged dangers of climate change. In 2015 after the governor took office the Florida Department of Environment was reportedly banned from using the terms climate change and global warming. Two years later Scott signed a bill that critics dubbed the anti science law which allows residents to file complaints about instructional materials used in public schools. Scott has a section on his website dedicated to environmental issues but it is curiously absent of any direct mentions of climate change. However his website does note that Scott fought to protect Florida's coastline by getting Florida removed from consideration for offshore oil drilling and securing millions of dollars in state funding to help local governments with coastal resilience projects and sea level rise planning. On the campaign trail Scott has dodged questions about climate change resorting to responses such as I'm not a scientist to avoid weighing in on the subject. The motive behind Scott's alleged science denial has also received media attention. Last year the Tampa Bay Times alleged that Scott's personal business ties to the energy industry may be the reason for the state's legislative inaction on climate change. The paper claimed that Scott had hefty investments in petroleum companies that oppose restrictions on greenhouse gases and other environmental regulations. READ MOREHurricane Michael shuts in 40 off Gulf of Mexico oil production The Florida governor hasn't been the only one singled out by the media for his backward views however. According to The Guardian anyone who isn't a fervent believer in man made climate change is to blame for Hurricane Michael even the hurricane's victims. Victims of Hurricane Michael voted for climate deniersreads the headline an op ed published in The Guardian on Thursday. Elections have consequences. Denying science has consequences. And we are reaping what we sow the subhead states matter of factly. The headline was later amended to Victims of Hurricane Michael are represented by climate deniers. Climate deniers are making these storms worse by stopping action on climate change. What the hell do we expect to happen when the deniers are writing the laws? the commentary penned by John Abraham a professor of thermal sciences asks rhetorically. Social media users appeared to largely line up behind the allegations hurled at Scott although some seemed unconvinced that the governor was at fault. Rick Scott can ban the term all he wants in FLORIDA. Climate change is real one Twitter user wrote. He's bought and paid for claimed another. Others were less accusatory. It's not our words that are negatively affecting the atmosphere. It's the damage we are doing to the planet one Twitter user noted in response to the Now This video. Lol. Like the weather would give a crap if he went mute a netizen observed. At least six people have been killed as a result of Hurricane Michael the third most powerful storm ever to hit the US mainland according to officials. The hurricane made landfall as a Category 4 storm but later weakened to a Category 1 on Wednesday night. As Hurricane Michael gradually loses strength however it appears that the media storm over the consequences of climate change denial is only growing. Will the devastation wrought by Michael and all future hurricanes be laid at the feet of science deniers? Like this story? Share it with a friend!	True	False	False	True	False
Mark Miller of Pacific Legal Foundation an anti regulation law group that has won 10 out of 12 Supreme Court cases it has pursued told BuzzFeed News it is too soon to tell exactly how a replacement for Kennedy would change environmental law. You couldnt predict how Justice Kennedy was going to decide things over his thirty some years. Reliably hard to predict Kennedy was more interested in nuanced and scientific arguments than some of the more conservative judges with a stricter anti regulation outlook David Doniger of the Natural Resources Defense Council told BuzzFeed News. Clearly over the years he has been in a different spot from the other judges. Trump has said he will choose Kennedys replacement from a short list of 25 candidates . If that holds true the new court will likely be harder to convince of the importance of environmental laws. He was a gettable fifth vote on decisions Bookbinder said. Things are more daunting without him. He will be missed David Bookbinder of the Niskanen Center who was the Sierra Clubs chief climate counsel in the 2007 Massachusetts v. EPA decision that designated greenhouse gasses as pollution under the Clean Air Act. But during his 30 year tenure Kennedy was also the key vote on fundamental environmental decisions. Environmental lawyers are worried about tough times ahead for new laws restricting pollution and protecting wildlife. Kennedy announced his retirement Wednesday prompting an immediate political scramble over his successor and opening the door for new legal fights on hot button social issues such as abortion and gay marriage. Miller suggested that the Endangered Species Act would be the first environmental issue to take the stage on a Kennedy less court A dispute over the endangered dusky gopher frog Weyerhaeuser v. US Fish and Wildlife Service FWS is now on the courts docket in the fall. That fight is over 1500 acres of forest in Louisiana that the FWS designated as critical habitat for the survival of the species even though the frogs dont live on it. The owners of the forest are challenging the government agencys ability to declare property as critical habitat when a species doesnt live on it as well as the government not taking economic costs into account in making such designations. Further down the road experts expect a fight over which of the nations waterways are actually protected under the Clean Water Act to return to the Supreme Court which sent lawsuits on this issue to district courts in January. Those lawsuits are challenging the Environmental Protection Agencys protection of some streams and waterways under rules narrowly written to conform to a 414 Rapanos v. United States decision made in 2006 where the 1 was Kennedy. The conservative wing of the court wanted to limit EPAs oversight to only big navigable waterways in that case and the liberal justices wanted essentially all small wetlands and streams protected too but Kennedy ended up creating middle ground. He said the government should only be able to regulate smaller waterways that have a significant nexus with major ones. So there was no majority opinion. Because all spaces protected under Kennedys one vote opinion also would be protected under the four liberal justices view however his opinion is the one that effectively controlled decisions going forward. In this case his lone opinion became the law Bookbinder said. Thats how pivotal he was. More lawsuits are expected on this in response to Trumps EPA drafting its own controversial water rule. One area legal experts are split on is whether the 2007 decision that greenhouse gases are pollutants will be reconsidered. Theres a been a lot of focus on whether that case will be reversed by a new majority Joseph Goffman executive director of Harvards Environmental Law Program told BuzzFeed News. While he doesnt dismiss this possibility out of hand hes more concerned by the court incrementally chipping away at the governments authority to regulate climate pollution in other ways. NRDCs Doniger pointed out the landmark decision has been twice reaffirmed by the court. At the same time it had already started to chip away at EPAs power to regulate greenhouse gasses in 2016 by halting enforcement of the Obama administrations Clean Power Plan aimed at curbing emissions from power plants. The Trump administration has since said it was pulling back that plan. Chief Justice John Roberts over the years has not been consistently opposed to environmental regulation or plain readings of pollution laws Doniger added suggesting that environmental plaintiffs in cases may turn their strategy to garnering his vote. And while there were many close cases involving the environment that came to the court during Kennedys 30 years there environmental advocates noted that not all of those cases were close. Its not like every environmental case was decided 54 Doniger said. There are plenty of 63 or 72 cases where environmentally sound decisions in our view were made. So you really cant say the sky is falling.	False	False	False	True	False
In his Message for the World Day of Prayer for the Care of Creation the pope adopted the apocalyptic language encouraged by climate alarmists to frighten people into taking action. Too many of us act like tyrants with regard to creation he declared. Let us make an effort to change and to adopt more simple and respectful lifestyles! Now is the time to abandon our dependence on fossil fuels and move quickly and decisively towards forms of clean energy and a sustainable and circular economy. Let us also learn to listen to indigenous peoples whose age old wisdom can teach us how to live in a better relationship with the environment he said. Recent studies have shown that the language of climate change and global warming do not stir up an emotional reaction in people and so climate alarmists have issued an appeal for the use of more powerful expressions to provoke people to action. Last April a team of advertising consultants from SPARK Neuro released the results of astudysuggesting that worn out expressions such as climate change do not frighten people enough whereas stronger vocabulary such as climate crisis and environmental collapse produced a significantly stronger emotional response. The expression climate crisis for instance got a 60 percent greater emotional response from listeners than climate change the study found. In its research SPARK Neuro measured physiological data such as brain activity and palm sweat to quantify peoples emotional reactions to stimuli. Of six different options global warming and climate change performed the worst beaten handily by climate crisis environmental destruction weather destabilization and environmental collapse. The pope has apparently joined the climate alarmists in employing more incendiary language dropping his former references to climate change to speak of a climate emergency and an environmental crisis in Sundays message. He also underscored the forthcoming United Nations Climate Action Summit as of particular importance while proposing that governments will have the responsibility there of showing the political will to take drastic measures to achieve as quickly as possible zero net greenhouse gas emissions. Referring specifically to fires in the Amazon region Francis called on everyone to take up these opportunities to respond to the cry of the poor and of our earth! Egoism and self interest have turned creation a place of encounter and sharing into an arena of competition and conflict he said. In this way the environment itself is endangered something good in Gods eyes has become something to be exploited in human hands. Deterioration has increased in recent decades constant pollution the continued use of fossil fuels intensive agricultural exploitation and deforestation are causing global temperatures to rise above safe levels he said. The pontiff went on to enumerate the effects of climate change an increase in the intensity and frequency of extreme weather phenomena the desertification of the soil melting of glaciers scarcity of water neglect of water basins and the considerable presence of plastic and microplastics in the oceans. All of these testify to the urgent need for interventions that can no longer be postponed he warned.	True	True	True	True	True
Environmentalists in California are willing to let the state dictate how they cook in their own kitchens in an attempt to save the planet. Thirteen cities and one county in California have put in place zoning codes encouraging or requiring all electric new construction virtually banning builders from running natural gas lines into homes and apartments to fuel appliances including stoves and ovens. USA Today reported that people believe the move is necessary to fight climate change with an eye toward creating fewer legacy gas hookups as the nation shifts to carbon neutral energy sources. For natural gas companies its a threat to their existence. And for some cooks who love to prepare food with flame its an unthinkable loss. Natural gas is a fossil fuel mostly methane and produces 33 of U.S. carbon dioxide emissions from electricity generation according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Carbon dioxide is the primary greenhouse gas causing climate change. Theres no pathway to stabilizing the climate without phasing gas out of our homes and buildings Rachel Golden of the Sierra Clubs building electrification campaign said. This is a must do for the climate and a livable planet. But the page linked to on the U.S. Energy Information Administration EIA website is referring ironically to CO2 emissions from the U.S. electric power sector by source for 2018. The new codes call for replacing gas with electricity. The federal website reports on the benefits of using natural gas as an energy source Burning natural gas for energy results in fewer emissions of nearly all types of air pollutants and carbon dioxide CO2 than burning coal or petroleum products to produce an equal amount of energy. About 117 pounds of carbon dioxide are produced per million British thermal units MMBtu equivalent of natural gas compared with more than 200 pounds of CO2 per MMBtu of coal and more than 160 pounds per MMBtu of distillate fuel oil. The clean burning properties of natural gas have contributed to increased natural gas use for electricity generation and as a transportation fuel for fleet vehicles in the United States. Probably the biggest stumbling block for most pondering an all electric home is the prospect of not having a gas stove USA Today reported. Its the only thing that people ever ask about Bruce Nilles who directs the building electrification program of the Rocky Mountain Institute a Colorado based think tank that focuses on energy and resource efficiency said in the USA Today report. According to a 2017 kitchen study by the NPD Group 35 percent of U.S. households have a gas stove while 55 percent have electric. But the number of natural gas customers is also rising USA Today reported. The American Gas Association which represents more than 200 local energy companies says an average of one new customer is added every minute. Thats exactly the wrong direction Nilles said. The idea that denying access to natural gas in new homes is necessary to meet emissions reduction goals is false American Gas Association President and CEO Karen Harbert. In fact denying access to natural gas could make meeting emissions goals harder and more expensive. They also say its more expensive to run an all electric home USA Today reported. A study by AGA released last year suggested that all electric homes would pay 750 to 910 a year more for energy related costs as well as amortized appliance and upgrade costs. USA Today also pointed out that California is not the only place where people want more government regulation. New York Hawaii Colorado and Maine have carbon neutrality goals and as many as 140 U.S. cities have similar plans.	False	False	False	False	False
A geophysics professor from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology says that hes run the numbers on humanity facing a mass extinction event and the numbers are not good. According to Digital Trends a mass extinction eventis an event in which a large number of species become extinct at once as was the case with the death of thedinosaurs65 million years ago. Daniel Rothman told the publication that we are approaching a threshold of catastrophe in the carbon cycle similar to that of the five previous periods of mass extinction over the last 540 million years. The study identifies two thresholds for major carbon cycle changeRothmansaid. One is a critical rate of change corresponding to the rate at which CO2 is added to the oceanatmosphere system. The other a critical size or mass corresponds to the total carbon added to the oceans. Exceeding the critical rate at slow time scales much greater than about 10000 years or exceeding the critical size at fast time scales much less than about 10000 years is associated with mass extinction he explained. The MIT research paper predicts that the critical mass about 300 gigatons of carbon he concluded will likely be exceeded sometime this century. If so following the papers logic the marine carbon cycle would proceed to follow a trajectory which could excite a mass extinction over a period of about 10000 years. Rothman goes on to explain that the tipping point of unknown territory wont take that long he predicts it will come as soon as 2100 or sooner. Rothman says thatdecreasing carbon emissions would be the best way to try to avoid the catastrophe. Those who point to discrepancies in the global warming narrative have also noted that many of the solutions offered by climate change advocates do very little to actually stop carbon emissions and turn back the clock. They also cite previous doomsday scenarios offered by alarmist scientists that didnt come to fruition including acid rain and global cooling.	False	True	False	True	False
In an effort to suppress federal climate research the Trump administration newstrump administration will direct state agencies to no longer consider worst case scenarios of global warming. Climate modelers working for federal agencies will only be permitted to forecast to 2040 decades before the as much as 8C degrees of global warming that could take place by 2100 if we continue on our current path. William Happer most recently famous for complaining trump science advisor compares climate science 1793497686 that the demonization of carbon dioxide really differs little from the Nazi persecution of the Jews will lead a team charged with reviewing the science produced by government researchers no doubt hunting for references to the disastrous sea level rise crop failures and health impacts continued warming stands to create. The irony in all of this is that Trump Happer and company may have a firmer grasp on the epic scope of these climate projections than many Democrats. As Naomi Klein argues even the rights fervent conspiracy theorists tend to understand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are for business as usual which has distributed its profits among elites of both parties. Members of Trumps cabinet Klein has written donald trump tax cuts climate change republican ideology capitalism with their desperate need to deny the reality of global warming or belittle its implications nonetheless understand something that is fundamentally true. To avert climate chaos we need to challenge the free market fundamentalism that has conquered the world since the 1980s. For all their bluster and junk science Republican decision makers have a clear sense for their own self interest and just how much is at stake for them and the rest of the 1. Consider Happer himself a retired physicist who has spent his post academy days hopping between various climate denying thinktanks a good many of them funded by the fossil fuel industry. In 2015 Greenpeace activists duped Happer into agreeing to write a report on the benefits of carbon dioxide for a fictional oil company. The real coal company Peabody Energy has paid him to deliver testimony at a state hearing in Minnesota and Happer has joined hands with groups like the Heritage Foundation the Cato Institute and the Competitive Enterprise Institute all recipients of ample industry funding to bolster Trumps agenda and cast doubt on the scientific consensus. As the New York Times reported in its article on the White Houses new climate plans both Happer and John Bolton who tapped him for the administration have received generous support from the Mercers the rightwing family credited with both spreading climate denial and helping fuel the opioid epidemic. We cant know whether Happer genuinely believes the nonsense hes spouting or is just being paid well enough to sound like he does. The answer doesnt really matter. Any clear eyed assessment of what the science is telling us spells out who the winners and losers of rapid decarbonization would be. To cap warming at around 2C a threshold many already dealing with climate impacts argue is too high about three quarters of known fossil fuel reserves will need to be kept underground a reality that if realized as public policy would crater the stock price of energy companies. Climate scientist Kevin Anderson has estimated that if the top 10 of greenhouse gas emitters were to live like the average European an improvement even for many of us in the United States global emissions could decline by a third. It is possible climate change new ipcc report wxcindex.html with the laws of chemistry and physics according to IPCC scientists to limit warming to the boldly ambitious target of 1.5C. The problem is our politics and how much of a stranglehold the fossil fuel executives with the most to lose from decarbonization have over them. Establishment Democrats meanwhile are asleep at the wheel. The pitch for taking on the climate challenge is a compelling one for reasons well beyond the fact that it could prevent runaway catastrophe. The Green New Deal promises a well paid job for everyone who wants one a real mass transit system clean and affordable energy and universal healthcare a necessity as people leave their jobs to find new work in the transition away from fossil fuels. While several Democratic primary contenders have embraced the Green New Deal and begun proposing their own plans the frontrunner in that race Joe Biden and the Democrats congressional leadership have been cooler toward it offering neither a decarbonization plan nor a compelling reason for voters to get behind them come 2020. Thats a dead end for the planet but also for the partys political prospects. With Donald Trump at their helm Republicans will keep denying climate change because it represents a dire threat to their fossil fuel donors bottom lines. Democratic leadership would do well to follow the lead of their partys insurgent progressive wing and take the climate threat as seriously. 	True	False	False	False	False
At a Tuesday afternoon event rolling out the new policy Administrator Scott Pruitt invoked a biblical tale from the book of Joshua in which the pagans are instructed to choose this day whom you will serve either God or the gods of your fathers. As it relates to grants from this agency youre going to have to choose said Pruitt who described the new rule as a way of ensuring theres integrity in the process and that the scientists that are advising us are doing so without any kind of appearance of conflict. Pruitt described scientists who received as much as 77 million in grants from the agency while also serving on advisory boards as damaging the perception of independent rule making. Pruitt signed an order cementing the new rules into policy during the 28 minute event with Sen. Jim Inhofe R Okla. and Rep. Lamar Smith R Texas two of the most ardent climate change deniers in Congress at his side. Administrator Pruitt is purging expert scientists from his science boards and replacing them with mouthpieces for big polluters Sen. Tom Udall D N.M. said in a statement. Now instead of independent science guiding the way hired guns for industry will be steering EPA policy on central issues affecting clean air clean water and public health. Pruitt said nothing of industry funded science which has long been used to kneecap regulations. For many scientists working in a time of limited research budgets funding from the EPA or other government agencies is one of the few sources available other than industry money. Wholly unaddressed by the directive is any counterpart prohibition on scientists funded by industries with conflicts of interest from serving as EPA advisors Richard Denison a lead senior scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund wrote in a blog post. When it comes to advice the agency receives the core concern over the need to avoid conflicts of interest is this Is advice tainted because the entity employing and paying the advisor stands to gain or lose financially from the agency decision that is under advisement? The advisory boards which Congress created as a check on EPA policies and regulations include the EPA Science Advisory Board the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee CASAC and the Board of Scientific Counselors. Pruitt said he plans to announce new members of the boards next week after scientists began quitting the councils in protest earlier this year. While Pruitts new order rejects anyone who receives funding from the agency he has named industry allies to those same boards. As part of the announcement he tapped Michael Honeycutt the head of the Texas Commission on Environmental Qualitys toxicology division to serve as the head of the Science Advisory Board. Honeycutt once suggested the health risks linked to smog were overstated described ozone standards as alarmism that made no biological sense because most people are indoors for 90 percent of the time and blasted the EPA for relying on epidemiological studies that he considered not scientifically rigorous. In 2010 the Texas Observer called him a crony of then Gov. Rick Perry R and accused him of abusing science.Honeycutt relied heavily on research produced by Michael Dourson whose consultancy Toxicology Excellence for Risk Assessment was described in 2014 by InsideClimate News as the one stop science shop favored by the chemical and tobacco industries. Pruitt picked Dourson to lead the agencys chemical safety division last month. Pruitt also tapped Tony Cox who runs the private consultancy Cox Associates and produces research for major industry groups to lead the CASAC. He has done research on lung disease issues for the American Chemistry Council a trade group for the chemical industry and research on health effects associated with fine particulate matter and ozone for the American Petroleum Institute the oil industrys main lobbying group according to The Intercept. In 2015 he railed against the EPAs plans to tighten rules on ozone emissions. Pruitt appointed Paul Gilman as the head of the Board of Scientific Counselors.Gilman currently serves as the chief sustainability officer at the waste management and incinerator company Covanta.He has been a leading advocate for incinerating trash as a source of fuel for electricity. The trash incinerator industry provides only a tiny fraction of U.S. power but wields outsize influence in some cities and hasattempted to sabotage the U.S. Conference of Mayors effort to push for 100 percent renewable energy. Scott Pruitt doesnt want to listen to a word from anyone who isnt in the pocket of corporate polluters Sierra Club Executive Director Michael Brune said in a statement. For Pruitt anything that helps corporate polluters make money is good and science and facts are just roadblocks he wants to tear down.	True	False	False	True	False
AnOregon climate change bill that prompted 12 Republican lawmakers to flee the Statehouse in Salem last weekhas hit yet another snagSenate President Peter Courtney a Democrat announced Tuesday that the chamber did not have enough votes to pass the legislation. The cap and trade program intended to rein in industrial carbon emissions lost traction even with the state's Democratic senators according to Courtney sparking protesters who were initially demanding that Republicans return to the floor for a vote to begin chantingPeter Courtney's got to go. I've done as much as I can and I'll continue to tryCourtney said. RUNAWAY OREGON REPUBLICAN SAYS LAWMAKERS WON'T RETURN TO STATE UNTIL 'EXPENSIVE' CARBON TAX BILL SCRAPPED Gov. Kate Brown also a Democratauthorized the state police to round up the 12 Republicans who walked out of the Statehousein protest of the bill Thursday and bring them back to the Senate floor for a vote but to no avail. If passed the measure would make Oregon the second state in the nation after California to implement such a program. Republicans fled the Senate some even claiming to the leave the state refusing to sign off on a bill that wouldlimit emissions and establishpollution permitsor allowances for each ton of carbon an industry plans to emit. Speaking to Fox Friends from an undisclosed location Tuesday Republican state Sen.Tim Knopp criticizedthe bill and insistedthat he and his GOP colleagues would continue to stymie the state legislative process which requires20 members in the Senate in order to constitute as a quorum in order to proceed unless the carbon tax is scrapped and a bipartisan solution is reached. The bill would limit greenhouse gas emissions and auction pollution allowances for carbon that businesses want to emit with a lowering cap. The bill would reduce emissions to 45 percent below 1990 levels by 2035 and 80 percent by 2050. Critics say it would hurt the business community and exacerbate a divide between liberalurban areas and conservative rural parts of the state. All we're saying is it shouldn't cost thousands of manufacturing jobs raise the gas tax by 20 cents a gallon to start out with and raise natural gas prices for people who heat their home by almost 50 percent. We think there's a better way to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and so were holding out Knopp said. And the only way we could do that and stop this vote is by not providing a quorum for Democrats to roll over us.. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Protesters in support of the climate bill were disappointed Tuesday after Courtney's announcement despite assurances by Democratic lawmakers who insisted they would find a path forward for the bill. The walkout going on six days also leaves several other pieces of legislation including the state budget up in the air. Thosematters need to be resolved before the Legislative session ends at the end of the week.	False	True	True	True	False
On Thursday President Donald J. Trump rejected failed former President Obamasdisastrous Paris global warmingdeal that sought to burden our economy with heavy regulations and taxes all to push the lefts global warming hysteria. In a Rose Garden speech President Trump said he rejected the global warming agreement because I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh not Paris words that the global warming alarmists cannot comprehend. Now a new report sheds some more light into why President Trump rejected the globalist scam and its incrediblespecifically he wanted to stick it to holier than thou elites in America specifically leftists who flyaround in private jets drive SUVs and live in massive mansions yet lecture Americans about their environmental impact. This is religion for the political left and our supporters are constantly being asked to change their behavior a top White House official told Axios who added that snarky comments from European leaders also encouraged Trump to withdraw. The White House official said Trump resented the corporate critics who ride in fossil fuel guzzling planes and SUVs then act holier than thou according to Axios. Trump announced he would withdraw the U.S. from the Paris agreement which the Obama administration joined in 2016 after years of negotiating with United Nations member countries. Some 147 countries have ratified the Paris agreement. Trump said the Paris agreement was poorly negotiated and would harm the U.S. economy. Trump said the deal transferred wealth from the U.S. to economic rivals like China and India. I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh not Paris Trump said. Its also important to note that the Obama administration didnt have the authority to commit the United States to a treaty without being ratified by the Senate a crucial point that the liberal media deliberately ignores in order to attack President Trump. Its been rumored that Trumps liberal son in law Jared Kushner as well as his daughter Ivanka and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson pushed the President to remain in the global warming deal but the President chose the American people instead. For years liberals like Al Gore and Leonardo DiCaprio have lectured the American public on global warming yet these hypocrites have bigger carbon footprints than millions of poorer peoplecombined traveling around the world in private jets accompanied by a fleet of SUVs. Throughout much of the 2016 campaign then candidate Donald Trump railed against corporate and global elitists who want to dictate their liberal agenda onto the American public with no understanding of how such liberal policies would harm our economy and the Americanpeople. President Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal is a giant middle finger to elitists all around the world who want America to suffer simply to promote their global warming alarmism. Are you glad President Trump rejected the Paris deal? Share your thoughts below!	True	False	False	True	True
For conservatives seeking a major victory a great place to start would be to fix the mess of energy subsidies and regulations that have accumulated over the past eight years. In the years since Barack Obama took office there were 548 billion in energy and environment regulations finalized and the projected budget currently estimates at least 250 billion in federal energy subsidies. Attempts to eliminate these regulations and subsidies have been hampered by conservatives lack of an overarching vision for energy policy. While the Left is happy to use regulation to promote specific forms of energy they find ideologically appealing the response from conservatives all too often has been to weakly offer the all of the above catchphrase as a counterweight. Even worse conservatives sometimes have played the Lefts game in reverse using government to promote their own favored forms of energy rather than to promote competition and markets. For example while criticizing the tax credits for wind and solar power conservatives have embraced subsidies for carbon capture and sequestration and government regulation on nuclear insurance. Conservative principles uphold free markets competition and the rule of law yet too many conservatives are content to get their electricity from regulated monopolies or build infrastructure under outdated regulatory approval processes that take on average 70 months to complete. While conservatives can be bellicose about ending the war on coal they have placed far less emphasis on the benefits of policies to improve liquidity in natural gas markets. Responding to challenges in the energy sphere one issue at a time results in many conservatives missing the forest for the trees and not talking enough about what pro market energy policy looks like. Unwittingly in conservatives quest for equal treatment of different energy sources they have adopted policies that reinforce governments role in dictating energy outcomes. Even when Republicans showed budget discipline in 2015 by finally putting a sunset on several production and investment tax credits they did so without ending all subsidies for wind and solar. The result is entrenched government preference for already mature wind and solar technologies and stymied competition from emerging technologies such as fuel cells and geothermal that would benefit the most from the tax credits. Conservatives sorely need to define an energy narrative rooted in market principles. It should be one that centers on quality institutions and policies that leverage competition and consumer choice. Markets not mandates or subsidies will drive cost reductions innovations and deployment of clean technologies. An incrementalistic approach one that seeks to level the subsidy playing field or merely to pare back Obamas regulatory legacy will do little to foster the conditions needed for the sorts of innovation that both the Right and Left seek. Progressives who favor heavy regulation and energy subsidies had a field day during Obamas presidency. However regulators likely overstated the net benefits of regulations and the Clean Power Plan would have accomplished little at high cost while proving legally vulnerable and politically unstable. An analysis of President Obamas environmental legacy by the American Action Forum found the negative effect of regulations on economic growth led to forgone environmental benefits richer economies tend to value clean air more and emit less relative to production and led to regulations that were about half as effective as claimed on paper. Subsidies also have been inefficient. The National Academy of Sciences found that production and investment tax credits for wind and solar reduced carbon dioxide emissions at a cost of a whopping 250 per ton. A 2015 Congressional Budget Office report acknowledged that tax credits are less effective at achieving policy goals than alternative market driven policies. An AAF analysis of tax credits for renewables found the costs to taxpayers rose at a faster rate than the renewable energy output indicating declining performance of the subsidies. The Lefts focus on energy policy has been costly with poor outcomes. The Democratic party has an official policy to cut pollution from energy use through regulation and subsidies yet another AAF analysis revealed no pathway exists to achieve those stated objectives via regulation. Even assuming the targets were achievable at costs similar to past regulations the economic costs of the regulatory burden would exceed 7 trillion. Conservatives should seek opportunities to shed regulations and subsidies in favor of market oriented policies. This means a plan to phase out distortionary tax preferences completely. Expanding full cost expensing in the tax code would boost RD fairly and efficiently. Additional RD benefits would come from shifting Department of Energy priorities from applied research toward basic research. Opportunities to cut red tape abound from hydroelectric and advanced nuclear licensing to modernizing the Clean Air Act. Removing regulatory barriers to entry for unconventional technologies such as energy storage in wholesale electricity markets would help level the playing field. Rethinking counterproductive energy efficiency regulations which reduce incentives for innovation and risk taking with new technologies should also be a part of the equation. Conservatives should also protect and enhance competitive energy markets. A report from the R Street Institute found that competitive electricity markets cut costs while boosting innovation and environmental quality. Strengthening these markets while minimizing political interventions like power plant bailouts is crucial to the performance of the electricity industry. Improving rules that affect price formation in electricity markets will also help stimulate efficient investments. Conservatives have an opportunity to retake the energy narrative with a platform that favors competition and choice. It would be a return to conservative basics where industries and technologies excel on their merits not political popularity. In so doing conservatives will advance the American economy and their political interests well into the future. Philip Rossetti is a data analyst at the American Action Forum Devin Hartman is electricity policy manager and senior fellow with the R Street Institute.	False	True	True	True	False
In January Californias Jerry Brown became the first governor in the states history to declare a state of emergency for a drought and a flood simultaneously. On Friday Brown lifted the drought emergency in all but four counties Fresno Kings Tulare and Tuolumne counties. But rather than lift the burdensome water regulations implemented to cope with the drought he announced that many of those regulations would remain intact even though the flood emergency remains. Browns latest plan Making Water Conservation a California Way of Life allows the state to oversee conservation goals it sets in urban water management agencies as well as to permanently prohibit activities it deems wasteful of the water supply. It also creates more stringent standards for establishing these water use goals. Brown has indicated that he hopes to expand the states water supply with new sources of water but his focus on making conservation a way of life in a time when Californias streets are flooding suggests otherwise. Certainly Californians and everyone else ought to find ways to responsibly use natural resources such as water. Mandating conservation however is drastically different from incentivizing it. Even though there is no longer a drought state of emergency in their state Californians will be fined if they wash their automobiles with hoses not equipped with a shut off nozzle water lawns in a way that results in water run off or hose off sidewalks. The plan also gives urban government agencies until 2025 to comply with their conservation targets limiting the water usage of Californians. But water conservation can only go so far. California ought to begin expanding its water supply rather than incessantly regulate how citizens use water especially now that the governor doesnt retain the broad powers spelled out under the drought state of emergency Browns flood state of emergency doesnt give him the same power to regulate water use. John Woodling of the Sacramento Regional Water Authority told the Sacramento Bee that Browns assertion of state power in this area will give it permanent unchecked control over local water management decisions. And as Browns plan begins to drive water consumption down Woodling said it could hurt the economy. Governor Brown has pushed two contradictory agendas for months. Now even he has concluded that California is no longer in a drought. Its time for these conservation regulations to be lifted and for the state to do what it should have done a long time ago look to expand its water supply.	True	True	False	False	True
Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson the former chief executive of Exxon Mobil has also spoken in favor of keeping a seat at the table in the climate pact and in recent days major corporations have stepped forward to embrace that position. While no decision has been made experts tracking it say that view is gaining traction. We do not currently believe the Trump administration plans to withdraw from either Paris agreement wrote Kevin Book an analyst at ClearView Energy Partners a Washington firm in a memo to clients on Monday. While Mr. Trump does not have the power to undo a multilateral United Nations accord he could withdraw the worlds largest economy from the pact weakening it substantially. Such a move would win cheers from the nations most powerful conservative political advocates and give Mr. Trump bragging rights in coal country. But withdrawing from the landmark accord that committed nearly every nation to take action against planet warming emissions could create diplomatic blowback while weakening American leadership in arenas far afield from energy and the environment. Besides keeping the United States name on the accord does not obligate the Trump administration to abide by the ambitious emissions control pledges of Mr. Trumps predecessor Barack Obama. At least one senior White House climate policy adviser George David Banks has advocated staying in the agreement while replacing the Obama plan with a weaker more industry friendly pledge. Over recent weeks Mr. Banks has asked top officials at several major corporations including Exxon Mobil who have similar views to submit letters to the White House confirming their support of staying in the Paris deal even if in a modified form. In response Peter Trelenberg the manager of environmental policy and planning at Exxon Mobil wrote to Mr. Banks Exxon Mobil supports the Paris agreement as an effective framework for addressing the risks of climate change. Royal Dutch Shell and BP European companies with significant investments in the United States have also endorsed the accord. Last month Representative Kevin Cramer a Republican from oil gas and coal rich North Dakota wrote The U.S. should present a new pledge that does no harm to our economy. Mr. Cramer an early supporter of Donald J. Trump advised Mr. Trump on energy issues during his presidential campaign. Colin Marshall the chief executive of Cloud Peak a major coal producer in Wyoming the nations largest coal mining state also wrote to Mr. Trump By remaining in the Paris agreement albeit with a much different pledge on emissions you can help shape a more rational international approach to climate policy. Regardless of his decision Mr. Trump has already undermined the United States ability to meet its Paris pledge. Mr. Obama declared that the United States would reduce its planet warming carbon pollution about 26 percent from 2005 levels by 2025. Its primary policy for meeting that target would be the Clean Power Plan a set of Environmental Protection Agency regulations designed to shutter hundreds of heavily polluting coal fired power plants the nations chief source of greenhouse emissions. Last month Mr. Trump directed Scott Pruitt the head of the Environmental Protection Agency to begin the legal process of dismantling the Clean Power Plan. Whether or not the United States remains in the Paris pact it almost certainly will not be able to meet its pledged pollution reduction targets. Mr. Pruitt has emerged as a leading voice for withdrawal from the Paris deal. Last week he told Fox News Its something we need to exit. That reflects the views of powerful conservative political advocacy groups such as Americans for Prosperity which is funded by the influential libertarian brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch. What we say to the White House is that its clearly a terrible agreement for the American people said Tim Phillips the president of Americans for Prosperity. That view is also backed by economists at the Heritage Foundation the conservative think tank that has supplied the Trump administration with many of its policy proposals. Harold G. Hamm the chief executive of Continental Resources and a Trump campaign adviser has also condemned the pact. Cancel the Paris climate treaty and any other agreements entered into unilaterally and without the consent of Congress Mr. Hamm wrote in a letter to Mr. Trump before his inauguration. Bob Murray the chief executive of the coal company Murray Energy who is personally close with the president has also strongly criticized the deal. Mr. Book the analyst noted that the risks of withdrawing from the Paris deal include not only diplomatic ill will but also the possibility of trade reprisals. Countries that tax emissions of carbon dioxide pollution could place a carbon tariff on imports of American made goods. The European Union currently charges polluters fees for carbon emissions while China Mexico and Canada are in the process of carrying out such programs. If the U.S. were to pull out it would do so in the context that would invite trade reprisals Mr. Book said. It could lead to a carbon tariff trade war. Daniel M. Bodansky an expert in international environmental agreements at Arizona State University said that remaining in the Paris deal but weakening the United States commitment could still have the effect of generating some ill will but without the repercussions of trade sanctions. They could just submit a new plan he said. People internationally would not be happy but theyd be a lot less unhappy than if the U.S. actually pulled out.	True	True	False	True	True
NASA robotic missions to Mars have revealed a world with an amazingly complex history including periods in which it was much warmer with oceans volcanoes and was habitable for many types of simple Earth life. Even now Mars still has abundant subsurface water and organic compounds. NASA is planning a human mission to Mars for the early to mid 2030s and if our history of space exploration is any guide Mars will have many interesting surprises in store for the first humans to set foot there. A human mission to Mars will be complex expensive and very dangerous.Sending humans to Mars and returning them safely to the Earth will be among the most difficult projects ever undertaken. But what should happen after that first step? The most obvious first task in developing an extended presence on Mars is reconnaissance probably carried out with extensive use of miniature drones. It will be essential that we map and evaluate all possible resources that could be useful. These resources will include water whether ice in the top few meters below the surface or liquid water that would exist deeper. Naturally occurring materials such as metals can be used in construction of habitats tools fuel etc. NASAs Mars Curiosity scientists recently announced the discovery of complex organics in the soil. These organic compounds would be essential for hydroponics as Mark Whatley did in wonderful and reasonable accurate movie The Martian. As a side product of growing green planets is that photosynthesis will provide a source of oxygen for breathing. The early Mars colonists will be intently focused upon building safe resilient and sustainable habitats. Whenever humans leave the Earth they must take along a bubble of Earths environment which includes breathable air. Mars has an atmosphere but it is only about 1 percent of the air pressure that exists at sea level on Earth. Furthermore the atmosphere on Mars is almost entirely carbon dioxide CO2. There is only a very tiny amount of oxygen the most important gas that humans need. Fortunately it is relatively straightforward to make oxygen from water and we now know that Mars has abundant water present as a permafrost layer underneath much of the surface. There are several dangers that would face the colonists. These include micrometeorites which burn up in Earths upper atmosphere and ultraviolet radiation from the sun that is blocked by our stratospheric ozone layer on Earth. Mars does not have such an ozone layer. So habitats must be shielded and perhaps built in naturally occurring caves and lava tubes. Imagine an opportunity of building an entirely new world from scratch! As long as the colony is safe and resilient and as long as the resources are available almost anything could be possible. Mars could provide a venue for experimenting with new types of government education societal structures or even recreation. Ultimately once colonies are stable Mars itself could be used as a base for further exploration of the outer solar system. As the early colonists develop a more robust presence they will then be able to devote more effort to establishing further goals. These might include the development of profitable industries for trade with Earth or experimenting with new technologies that might have applications for life on Earth. They could search for life underneath the surface of Martian as has been suggested by the methane plumes that are emitted seasonally from the underground or in the nearby asteroid belt or the moons of Jupiter. Imagine the new types of recreation that might be possible on Mars. Imagine skiing down the slopes of Olumpus Mons the largest extinct volcano in the solar system where the ski slopes are hundreds of miles long. Imagine hang gliding from cliffs six miles high! On Mars the intrepid explorer might delve into caves ancient lava tubes that are hundreds of meters across. Perhaps the most exciting recreation will be exploring that new world. Who knows what we will find there! Michael Summers is a professor of planetary science and astronomy at George Mason University. The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	True	False	False	False	False
A little over a year agoI wrote that President Trump saved the planetwhen he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate agreement. The decision I argued enabled the free market to do exactly what liberals want Empower individuals to better the environment without government intervention. As individuals we are taking steps to protect the environment by choice not by mandate and going green is paying off. According to the Energy Information Administrations EIA latest monthly energy report U.S. carbon dioxide emissions are at their lowest point since 1992. Per capita carbon emissions are the lowest theyve been since 1950. Were also outpacing our allies many of whom criticized President Trumps decision to put America first. In the last year alone U.S. carbon emissions fell more than 0.5 percent while European emissionsrose 1.5 percent. Its the height of irony given Europes virtue signaling last year. After President Trump shredded his predecessors unconstitutional treaty the globalist leaders of France Germany and Italyclaimedit cannot be renegotiated. They referred to the irreversible agreement as a vital instrument for our planet societies and economies. The globalist decree would have left us spending trillions of dollars a year to mitigate a rise in global temperatures without really mitigating it at all. The Paris climate agreement was expected to drop temperatures byone fifth of a degreeover the next century. Apparently it wasnt such a vital instrument after all. Europe is failing to pull its weight as Americanscut pollution to historic lows. The decline in U.S. carbon emissions is a testament to the free markets enduring power. There is nothing more vital for environmental protection than our freedom to protect the environment as individuals without Big Government and its endless red tape. Anti Trump liberals and conservatives alike are investing in renewable energy choosing hybrid vehicles over gas guzzlers and encouraging their neighbors to do the same. Were cutting down on waste like never before. Were reusing more than ever. And were recycling recycling recycling. This year the environmental industry is expected togrow five percent to 407 billion without the Paris agreement. By 2020 the waste management segment alone is projected to surpass 70 billion in economic activity with an average annual growth rate of 3.6 percent. Corporate America is doing its part. Tesla is working on theworlds largest battery farmin the California desert reaffirming its commitment to electric vehicles and an energy grid powered by renewable options. The new power plant will be capable of producing up to 1.1 GWh of electricity enough energy for millions of homes. Tesla isnt alone. Last year 19 companiesannounced deals with energy providersto build 2.78 gigawatts worth of solar and wind generating capacity. At least 22 companies in the Fortune 500 have committed to buying enough renewable energy to match 100 percent of their electricity use moving forward. Earlier this year oil and gas companies such as ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shellmet with Pope Francisto discuss climate change and put concrete solutions on the table. Theyrebacking up their words ExxonMobil is developing renewable oils from genetically engineered algae while Royal Dutch Shell vows to become a leading supplier of renewable electricity. Going green is creating new jobs and new industries to boot. As always free market forces outperform the unfunded mandates and taxpayer funded job killing enforcement bureaucracies of Big Government. Even as the Left demands more environmental regulations President Trump is wise to side with the free market. When individuals are free to choose when and how to adjust their daily lives to protect the environment without government compulsion requiring it the environment reaps the benefits. When private enterprise is free to experiment and innovate we see a stronger economy and a real commitment to environmental action. President Trump understands environmental protection is impossible without individual action and private innovation. Its because of free enterprise the environmental industry is as large as it is todayand growing. By protecting individual freedom from government regulation President Trump is saving our jobs and the environment to boot. DanBackeris a veteran campaign counsel who has worked for more than 100 candidates PACs and political organizations including Great America PAC and the Committee to Defend the President. He is founding attorney of political.law a campaign finance and political law firm. The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	False	False	False	True	True
Speaking at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow slammed the progressive proposal that was recently introduced by Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez of New York and Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts. Kudlow said the deal will knock out energy transportation airlines jobs businesses. We'll probably lose 10 to 15 of our GDP. It's remarkable. The package of legislation is aimed at among other things addressing climate change. It would phase out fossil fuel use and calls for the elimination of greenhouse gas emissions and pollution in agriculture transportation manufacturing and construction. The deal describes a 10 year economic mobilization that would overhaul the nation's infrastructure and build new layers into the existing social safety net. It calls for the creation of millions of new high wage jobs to help wipe out poverty. The resolution co sponsored by several Democrats running for President in 2020 has been heavily criticized by those on the right. Kudlow likened the deal to socialism and called for the American people to put socialism on trial and convict it. The resolution proposes providing all people of the United States with i high quality health care ii affordable safe and adequate housing iii economic security and iv access to clean water clean air healthy and affordable food and nature. The deal proposes guaranteeing a job with a family sustaining wage adequate family and medical leave paid vacations and retirement security to all people of the United States. Kudlow said universal health care and ending private insurance were also crazy ideas citing high costs. He said guaranteed jobs free to those who don't want to work probably cost 45 trillion. Earlier this week Ivanka Trump a senior White House adviser and the President's daughter was asked about the Green New Deal proposal and what she would say to people who are enticed by the proposal's job guarantee. In response Ivanka Trump said I don't think most Americans in their heart want to be given something adding People want to work for what they get so I think this idea of a guaranteed minimum is not something most people want. Ocasio Cortez fired back on Twitter and said A living wage isn't a gift it's a right. Workers are often paid far less than the value they create.	True	False	False	False	False
During an interview with CBC the new US ambassador to Canada Kelly Craft claimed she believes both sides of climate science. Asked Do you believe in climate change? Craft responded I believe there are scientists on both sides that are accurate. Do you believe there is science that proves that man is not causing climate change? the interviewer followed up. Well I think that both sides have you know their own results from their studies and I appreciate and respect both sides of the science Craft said. Though several members of the Trump administration including President Trump himself continue to cast doubt on humans role in the changing climate without providing any evidence its simply not a matter on which scientists disagree at all. The latest National Climate Assessment written by more than 300 scientists at 13 US federal agencies including the Department of Defense and NASA for instance opens with the statement Earths climate is now changing faster than at any point in the history of modern civilization primarily as a result of human activities. The report goes on to detail the toll climate change has already taken on health quality of life and the economy of the US and how those impacts will mount if emissions are not dramatically reduced in the coming years. With continued growth in emissions at historic rates annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century more than the current gross domestic product GDP of many U.S. states according to the assessment. The Trump administration released the report ahead of schedule on the Friday after Thanksgiving a move many interpreted as an attempt to bury the findings. The facts of climate science and the urgency of the climate threat to the US are a nuisance to an administration that has consistently prioritized the demands of the fossil fuel industry to roll back federal policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. And Trump has appointed a number of officials like Craft whose allegiance to industry is clear. In 2016 Craft reportedly donated 265400 toward Trumps election and 17000 to the Republican National Committee. Crafts husband Joseph Craft is a billionaire coal magnate. A Global News report from 2017 provides some details about him While the Crafts have a personal financial stake in pushing climate denialism other prominent Republicans have tried to tamp down on the conclusions of the Climate Assessment by citing concerns about the impact curbing greenhouse gas emissions would have on industry and jobs. But as Voxs David Roberts has detailed there is no consistent evidence that environmental regulations cause long term changes in overall employment.	True	True	False	True	True
Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs newly released Green New Deal resolution has gotten a lot of attention for its 100 percent renewable energy goal but the bill also vaguely references another source of emissions. The resolution calls for aWorld War II style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations. If thats the case that means any subsequent Green New Deal legislation would have to deal with a major source of methane emissions cow flatulence and burps. We set a goal to get to net zero rather than zero emissions in 10 years because we arent sure that well be able to fully get rid of farting cows and airplanes that fast reads the initial version of the resolutions fact sheet. However Ocasio Cortez staffers have since removed farting from fact sheet. Methane makes up 10 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for global warming. Enteric fermentation the digestive process in cows and other ruminant animals is the largest source of U.S. methane emissions according to Environmental Protection Agency EPA data. EPA says cattle account for the majority of methane emissions in the United States for this source category referring to emissions from enteric fermentation.Most methane from cows comes from their burps not farts.RELATED Alexandria Ocasio Cortez Green New Deal Is About Social Justice Being a non binding resolution the Green New Deal doesnt offer any specifics on how livestock emissions would be phased down or eliminated. The question then becomes How do you eliminate emissions from cows sheep and other animals? Certainly environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of peoples diets in the name of the climate but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health. Some scientists have looked into reducing flatulence from ruminant animals. The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others. The Obama administration released a plan to clamp down on methane emissions in 2014 which included programs to cut emissions from dairy operations. Republican lawmakers worried the Obama era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers. Methane is a more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide but makes up a much smaller slice of Americas emissions profile. Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	False	True	True	False
Julin Castro is a Texan an attorney a former mayor of San Antonio juliC3A1n and former cabinet secretary Housing and Urban Development in the Obama administration juliC3A1n castro. He has an identical twin walking the halls of Congress a mother who is a civil rights activist castro unlikely journey.html and two young children boy hud secr julian castro wife welcome second child n276251. Castro a third generation Mexican American worked as an intern for one president Bill Clinton t.html?r2pagewantedall and delivered the keynote address transcript julian castros dnc keynote address at the Democratic national convention for another Barack Obama. He doesnt drink alcohol castro likes Jay Z and Billy Joel feature7340848 julian castro hud secretary interview music stars making difference presidential election donald trump hillary clinton and grew up a Philadelphia Eagles fan n castro talks wendy davis football rivalries and more. Now hes a presidential candidate too. Here is where Castro stands on some of the key issues of the 2020 election cycle. Climate change and energy Rejoin the Paris Climate Treaty. Work with businesses. Castro has criticized President Donald Trump span.orgvideo?440838 1julian castro delivers speech rally hampshire for withdrawing from the Paris climate change accord. Castros overall approach in public office was to try to convince businesses to increase their reliance on renewable energy voluntarily. While he was mayor of San Antonio the local utility committed to close a coal plant castro is obamas newest climate denizen452793 and embrace a 20 percent renewables goal. It is not clear if Castro supports a carbon tax or cap and trade policy to reduce carbon emissions. Education Establish universal pre K education. Provide two free years of higher education. As mayor of San Antonio Castro convinced voters to raise taxes one eighth of a cent to create the citys pre kindergarten program antonio pre k program mayor julian castro 215497 for four year olds. He supports universal pre kindergarten nationally transcript 19 rep adam smith rep lizstory?id60183722 and would like to make the first two years of higher education free. He has not yet offered specifics on his plans. Gun control Require universal background checks ban assault weapons. A longtime gun control advocate Castro has pushed for renewing the assault weapons ban joaqun castro call discussion gun lawsstory?id18007281 limiting high capacity magazines and requiring background checks at gun shows Health care Create a universal health care system Medicare for all. Castro has called for universal health care span.orgvideo?440838 1julian castro delivers speech rally hampshire also referring to it as Medicare for all transcript 19 rep adam smith rep lizstory?id60183722. He indicated he would consider paying for such a system by raising taxes on corporations and on the wealthiest 0.05 0.5 or 1 percent of Americans. Immigration ICE and the border Allow a path to citizenship house committee spars with san antonio mayor.html for most undocumented immigrants. Reconstitute U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE. Castro supports comprehensive immigration reform including a path to citizenship for most of the estimated 11 million undocumented people in the United States. Castro opposes Trumps border wall plan castro hopes us mexico partnership continues under trump and instead has proposed securing the border by using technology and a more efficient legal immigration process. When asked if he thinks ICE should be abolished as some Democrats argued in the run up to the 2018 midterms Castro told Bustle he thinks the agency needs to change its culture and be reconstituted. Social issues Abortion should remain legal after 20 weeks. Gay marriage is a protected right. Transgender Americans should be able to serve in the military. Castro is a Roman Catholic who supports legal abortion access and gay rights. He vigorously opposed a Texas law Davis Juli n Castro rally abortion rights 4660994.php to ban abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy and limit facilities and access to abortions in general. Castro has long supported same sex marriage serving as Grand Marshal parade.html of the 2009 San Antonio Gay Pride parade. In 2017 he tweeted that the military should allow Americans of all gender identities to serve in the military. Syria Withdraw U.S. presence over a planned period of time. In an appearance on NBCs Meet The Press last month Castro said it was time for us to pull out of Syria the press meet press december 23 2018 n951396 but insisted it must be on a planned timeline. He criticized Trumps sudden announcement of a potential withdrawal as not the way it should be done. Trade Renegotiate NAFTA. As mayor of San Antonio Castro strongly supported NAFTA policy facts about dnc keynote speaker julian castro?utmterm.b3d077e12f8a and expanding the trade deal. He has said span.orgvideo?445578 4 washington journal julian castro discusses federal housing policyplayEvent that he believes the agreement should be renegotiated to strengthen worker and environmental protections. 	False	True	True	True	False
An aerial view ofthe Antarctic Peninsulas Larsen C ice shelf. According to NASA IceBridge scientists measured the Larsen C fracture to be about 70 miles long more than 300 feet wide and about a third of a mile deep. Photo John SonntagNASA via AP In the six days before President Trump announced his decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change an enormous crack in an Antarctic ice shelf grew 11 miles according to a report by British Antarctic research group Project MIDAS. The crack which is located in Larson Shelf C leaves only eight miles of ice connecting what could be one of the worlds largest recorded icebergs to Antarctica. When it eventually breaks free from the continent the resulting iceberg will measure 31000 square miles represent 10 percent of the ice shelfs original mass and be larger than the state of Rhode Island. The growth spurt between May 25 and May 31 was the largest they have observed since January Project MIDAS says and the inevitable splintering of Ice Shelf C will drastically alter the landscape of the continent and will make the ice that remains less stable. The group states that although this specific crack was not likely caused by climate change the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves contributes to rising sea levels that threaten coastal cities. When ice shelves disappear ice can flow faster from the land to the ocean and contribute more quickly to sea level rise Adrian Luckman and Martin OLeary of Project MIDAS wrote in February. Rising sea levels endanger heavily populated cities such as New York San Francisco New Orleans and Miami and are predicted to cause 13.1 million Americans to relocate from coastal areas by 2100. Concern about rising sea levels was one of many factors that inspired the Paris Agreements goal of limiting the rise of global temperatures. Project MIDAS expects the ice shelf to mimic the break up of Larson Ice Shelf B which shattered over a period of two weeks in 2002. The calving event will probably be slow and graceful the scientists of Project MIDAS wrote. The ice is already floating so when the fracture breaks all the way through it will simply start to drift away. The group is unsure exactly when the rapidly growing crack will cause Ice Shelf C to break free from Antarctica but believes that the rift has now reached a region of soft ice and that there is very little holding the ice shelf together. We are watching with bated breath the teamwrote.	False	False	False	True	True
The actions of mankind could lead to the extinction of half of African birds and mammals by the end of 2100 a UN backed study has said. The report conducted by 550 experts from around the world said reduced biodiversity could affect people's quality of life. It also found 42 of land based animal and plant species in Europe and Central Asia have declined in the last decade. The findings come after the death of the last male northern white rhino. Despite the bleak findings the study also pointed to some successes in reversing declines in wildlife. The study by the Intergovernmental Science Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services IPBES showed forest cover in China and other parts of north east Asia had risen by more than 20 between 1990 and 2015. It also found that animals such as the amur leopard which were once on the verge of the extinction had grown in population. Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have. Fortunately the evidence also shows that we know how to protect and partially restore our vital natural assets. Academic volunteers looked through some 10000 scientific publications for what is said to be the most extensive biodiversity survey since 2005. Among the list of the biggest threats to food and water security were pollution climate change and deforestation. Scientists say governments businesses and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming fishing forestry mining or infrastructure development.	True	True	False	False	False
Over 250000 Americans and 500 organizations submitted comments rejecting the US Department of Agricultures USDA proposal to approve genetically engineered eucalyptus trees for planting. If approved the trees would be planted in seven southern states. Public comments on the USDAs draft environmental impact statement dEIS closed on Wednesday. The agency will now evaluate the comments for a final review on whether to approve the GE trees. Activists from the South Pacific Islands Southern Asia and North and South America weighed in rejecting all genetically engineered trees including field trials. Critics of the dEIS said the USDA downplayed the risks posed by the GE trees. The agency predicts GE eucalyptus plantations would cover over 1 million across seven states from coastal South Carolina to eastern Texas. The GE eucalyptus trees developed by biotech companies such as FuturaGene and ArborGen are designed to tolerate freezing temperatures and to help feed demand for pulp and paper production biomass pellets for electricity and fuel for cars. Anne Petermann executive director at the Global Justice Ecology Project said the tradition has been for the government to rubberstamp genetically engineered organisms but this would be the first time they are approving a genetically engineered forest tree. She said ArborGen asked for approval to legalize the trees six years ago. They USDA are really taking their time with it becuase they know there is overwhelming public opposition to the plan Petermann told RT. Petermann said there is a lack of independent research on the long term or even short term consequences of putting genetically engineered trees out into the environment and that the risks could be significant. We are talking about forest ecosystems that have evolved over millions of years Petermann said. Planting eucalyptus trees with mutations in their genomes how are these organisms going to interact with the forest? How are they going to interact with soil micro organisms? Those studies have not been done and that is one of the major points in the comments. Petermann said if the studies were to be done they would have to be carried out over the full life of the tree between 50 to 100 years. As that is not likely to happen she said there is no way to know the full scope of the risks. Eucalyptus trees are the number one industrial tree plantation used in Latin America Africa and Asia traditionally in tropical areas where commerce appreciates their fast growth and versatility. The forest products industry is worth 400 billion a year. This technology is worth billions of dollars a year. If you can increase yields by 40 percent you can greatly reduce prices. Eucalyptus today are harvested at seven years in Brazil we are looking to produce the same sized trees in five and a half years Stanley Hirsch chief executive of the Israeli biotech company FuturaGene told the Guardian in 2012 over its plans to plant GM eucalyptus in Brazil. Documented as an invasive species around the world the trees have escaped the limits of their plantations in South Africa and shown up in native grasslands and in Chile where they are showing up in the forests. In the US the trees only grow in Southern Florida and California hence the need for a genetically engineered variety to withstand temperature variations in other states. Petermann said another red flag is wildfires. She points to the massive wildlife that hit Portugal last month that left 60 people dead and one that happened in Chile in January. Both were fed by eucalyptus plantations. Eucalyptus is extremely flammable said Petermann. Combine that with dry conditions which these trees exacerbate because they drink so much you end with these incredible firestorms. The US southeast is already experiencing repeated droughts it is already experiencing heatwaves it is the last place to plant a eucalyptus plantation. Among other commentators was former NASA scientist Kate Cato who lives in the US south and has mapped parts of Mars. She said it was clear that the planet once had rivers and great amounts of water and possibly an atmosphere similar to ours but a global catastrophe had happened. She said the effects of invasive species such as kudzu lionfish and Australian pines have already caused chaos in the southern states where they lack predators and displace native plants and animals and already cost the states millions of dollars in losses and eradication.	False	False	False	True	False
As India's north continues to struggle with extreme pollution levels the story has put a fresh spotlight on air quality in cities across Asia. Beijing has long been notorious for its smog but statistics show that India Pakistan and Bangladesh have worse air by far. So why is South Asia so much more polluted? Of the world's most polluted 30 cities 22 are in India according to research by IQ AirVisual a Swiss based group that gathers air quality data globally and Greenpeace. The remaining eight cities are all in Pakistan Bangladesh and China but the list doesn't include Beijing which comes in at number 122. Just looking at global capitals it's also Asian cities that top the ranking. Looking at overall countries it's Bangladesh that has the worst air followed by Pakistan and then India. All these rankings are based on average air quality per year. As these countries have very different densities of measuring stations and transparency of data the statistics have to be read with a degree of caution. But they certainly indicate an overall trend. The fight against air pollution in three global cities Why is India worse off than China? Pollution in urban areas is usually a mix of different factors mostly traffic fossil fuel burning power plants and heavy industries. What differentiates China from India is that in the latter there is still a lot of burning of agricultural stubble when farmers want to clear their fields. The burning usually takes place in autumn. In this episode the big problem really seems to have been the agricultural burning assistant professor Thomas Smith of the London School of Economics told the BBC. That's one thing that China has tackled. All agricultural burning has been banned full stop. A global overview for fires and thermal abnormalities is made available by Nasa and allows users to track developments over past days and weeks. The area north west of Delhi shows a highly unusual concentration of fires Prof Smith points out. And you can't underestimate how important agricultural burning is even though people often think only of cars and heavy industry as the causes. In the wake of the pollution spike India's Supreme Court ordered a stop to stubble burning in the states around Delhi. But the city's situation is made worse by the colder winter air which is more stagnant trapping the pollutants in place. Prof Smith also points out that while India is largely reactive Beijing tends to be more proactive and preventative to try to stop the problems from happening in the first place. What does pollution feel like? Pollution levels are categorised by measuring the levels of dangerous particles in the air. The result is then classified on a scale from good to hazardous. The effect of pollution is different for every person explains Dr Christine Cowie of the University of New South Wales. Some people complain about irritation to the eyes to the throat exacerbations of wheeze and asthma symptoms. Coughing is certainly also a very common symptom even in non asthmatic people. And of course it's the elderly who suffer the very young and people with pre existing respiratory illnesses like or heart problems. She explains that even a short exposure to the unhealthy or worse pollution levels can trigger an asthma attack or increase the risk of a stroke. The longer the exposure the greater the risks. And the ways to protect oneself are limited. There's the advice to stay indoors to reduce physical exercise and to wear a mask but in many poorer parts of the world none of these options really work for regular people. It is toxic air says David Taylor professor of tropical environmental change at the National University of Singapore. It must be very uncomfortable especially if you're having to work outside and if you're having to do jobs that require quite a lot of energy. You feel like it's hard to breathe agrees Prof Smith. It's like doing hardcore exercise when you just take a walk outside. And depending on the kind of pollution you can of course also smell it in the air. How does it compare to Europe or the US? Today pollution levels in Europe Australia and the US are significantly lower than the extreme readings that India has experienced in the past few days. But it's not always been like that. London for instance was notorious for its pollution during much of the 19th and early 20th centuries. As late as 1952 the so called Great Smog covered London with a thick toxic layer of pollution bringing the city almost to a standstill for days not unlike the situation in Delhi now. It's thought to have resulted in thousands of deaths. While London experienced a different mix of pollutants it probably wasn't far off what's currently happening in Delhi says Mr Taylor. Back then power stations along the Thames were major polluters of the British capital. In fact much of what we know today about the health impact of air pollution dates back to the experiences of the London smog during those years.	False	True	False	True	False
A fifth generation coal miner from Virginia has spoken out against President Donald Trump's rhetoric surrounding the coal mining industry saying the President is making false promises that are only going to line the pockets of coal executives. In a New York Times op ed video published Tuesday Nick Mullins a ninth generation Appalachian from Virginia said that if Trump wants to help the Appalachian mining communities that support him lowering emission standards is not the way to do it. At this year's State of the Union address Trump talked about ending the war on beautiful clean coal. Mullins says coal cannot be clean and that miners know firsthand. We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue he said. They're a matter of life or death. On Tuesday the newly proposed Affordable Clean Energy Rule was announced which would allow states to set their own emission standards for coal fueled power plants. Throughout his campaign and presidency Trump has lauded his plan to replace the Obama administration's climate change policies with rules and regulations that would be more friendly toward the coal industry. The Obama administration's Clean Power Plan made greenhouse gas emissions federally regulated for the first time.	True	False	False	True	True
The executive order titled Promoting Domestic Manufacturing and Job Creation Policies and Procedures Relating to Implementation of Air Quality Standards reverses an Obama era decision. The 2015 decision allowed the EPA to intervene in states that fail to meet National Ambient Air Quality Standards forcing them to adopt federal regulatory plans to reduce ozone emissions that generally come from power plants refineries and cement factories. It opens the door to drastic changes in how science is used to set clean air rules disqualifying huge amounts of peer reviewed public health research in favor of industry backed studies in a move that builds on steps EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has already taken. The order requires the EPA to speed up reviews of state plans to reduce air pollution setting a strict 18 month deadline and complete reviews of all pre construction permits for industry within a year. Construction permitting is primarily a state level issuethe language in the order critics say appears to be a dog whistle to polluters suggesting the EPA would pull back on any oversight. The purpose is that if states make determinations that are somewhat less than the rigor of what might be expected EPA wont second guess it Stan Meiburg a former acting deputy EPA administrator who spent 39 years at the agency told HuffPost by phone. Its a go ahead for industry that if they take their best shot at states the EPA wont be getting in the way. The orderinstructs the EPA to consider what countries that dont border the United States are doing to reduce pollution allowing the agency to compare U.S. regulations to those in developing nations like China and India. It also directs Pruitt to allow states to trade pollution permits a move environmentalists warn could make offsets nearly impossible to track and police. In what could be the most controversial part the order requires the EPAs science advisers to consider the downside of cleaner air rulessomething for which industry groups have clamored for years. They argue the policies could raise electricity costs and make things like air conditioning more expensive. That directive is likely to prompt watchdog groups to sue. The Supreme Court ruled unanimously in 2001 in a decision written by late Justice Antonin Scalia that the EPA cannot consider the costs of implementation when setting air quality standards. It marks the latest assault on clean air rules putting poor people and communities of color particularly at risk. People living below the poverty line were exposed to 1.35 times more particulate matter than those living above it according to a landmark EPA study released in February. People of color breathe in 1.2 times more particulate matter pollution and black people in particular are on average exposed to 1.54 times more particulate matter pollution than the general pollution. The National Association of the Advancement of Colored People released a report in February that found black people are exposed to air that is 38 percent more polluted than white people on average and they are 75 percent more likely to live in communities abutting industrial sites. People who are most affected by air pollution are the most vulnerable and these policy changes would mean even less protection for those people Janet McCabewho served as the assistant administrator for the EPAs Office of Air and Radiation until 2017 told HuffPost by phone. It could mean yet more pollution in their neighborhoods. The new order could put the administration at loggerheads with California regulators again. But the quiet rollout of the memorandum avoided swift criticisms. The California Air Resources Board told HuffPost the agency had not yet reviewed the ordered by Thursday afternoon. This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters its nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science gut our clean air protections and put polluter profits ahead of our health Sara Jordan a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters said in a statement.	True	False	False	True	True
Joe Biden has been roundly mocked on Twitter after making the unlikely claim to a young activist appealing for a presidential debate on climate change that he kicked off the whole global warming movement back in the late 1980s. A young activist from US Youth Climate Strike asked Biden if he would support a presidential climate policy forum organized by the group. Biden interrupted the girl before she was finished asking By the way did you know Im the guy who did all this? Read Real Clear Politics it will tell you about how I started this whole thing back in 1987 climate change. Social media users were quick to criticize Bidens response with some mocking him for saying he had started climate change and others pointing out that his 1987 effort didnt really work out so well. Biden has repeatedly boasted of his 80s climate change concern telling voters he was the first to introduce a climate bill. In 1987 Biden delivered a Senate speech warning of the dangers of global warming and his Global Climate Protection Act called for setting up a task force to plan to tackle the issue. While he is the first to have a climate bill passed he certainly isnt the first politician to raise the alarm about climate change let alone have started the whole thing. Congressman Al Gore held House hearings on climate change in 1976 and as a senator introduced a resolution calling for a research program into greenhouse gas emissions in 1985. The following year Republican Senator John Chafee held Senate climate hearings warning of the serious problem and featuring an expert explaining that significant warming could happen within 5 15 years. Biden has been criticized for reportedly planning a middle ground approach to climate policy that is accused of lacking urgency and not going far enough. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	True	True	False	True	True
Teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg has already caused a sensation on her trip to North America tearing into world leaders yesterday in an emotional speech at the United Nations and giving a death stare to Donald Trump. What is not yet clear is how the 16 year old will get back to Sweden because she refuses to travel on fuel guzzling planes and the 60ft racing boat she travelled on is already back in Europe. Two crew members have flown to the U.S. to sail the Malizia II back across the Atlantic and it is not yet clear exactly when Thunberg will be going home. When she set off from Britain last month she admitted 'I don't know yet how I will get home'. Non stop flights from London to New York City take between eight to ten hours for a 3470 mile journey. It equates to about 183910 pounds of emissions per flight between the two cities and Thunberg refuses to add to the environmental cost. She has also persuaded her parents to stop flying hampering her mother's career as an international opera singer. 'My generation wont be able to fly other than for emergencies in a foreseeable future if we are to be the least bit serious' about limiting global warming she has previously said. Thunberg also refuses to travel aboard a cruise ship as they are also notoriously big polluters. The Malizia II is now back in France after sailing back from New York without Thunberg. Unless the Malizia II returns to North America she will have to find a different mode of transport back across the Atlantic when she eventually leaves. In the meantime she plans to promote her climate agenda across North America. This week she will travel from New York to Montreal to join a school climate strike in Canada on what is expected to be a day of global protests. She also hopes to visit Mexico and is due in Chile for a climate summit in December travelling across the Americasby bus and train. The 16 year old is taking a year out of school to lobby for climate action after starting the school strike movement in Sweden last August. She skipped school for the first three weeks after term began and then took Fridays off to spend the day outside Sweden's parliament with a sign labelled 'School strike for climate'. Her protests have inspired wealthy donors to contribute to a Climate Emergency Fund to support the protests and the simultaneous Extinction Rebellion movement. Its donors include heiress Aileen Getty American philanthropist Trevor Neilson and filmmaker Rory Kennedy a member of the political Kennedy clan. The Swedish teenager named this week's UN Climate Action Summit and the Chile conference in December as her main reasons for crossing the Atlantic. She said last year she had beeninvited to speak around the world but refused to make the necessary flights. But in June she said 'it looks like a large part of our future will probably be decided in New York and Santiago' and agreed to travel to North America on the yacht. Pierre Casiraghi the grandson of Monaco's late Prince Rainier III and American actress Grace Kelly and fellow yachtsman Boris Herrmann offered her passage on the Malizia II. She arrived last month after a two week journey aboard the racing yacht. Thunberg documented parts of her journey on Twitter where she included videos of choppy weather conditions photos of herself and the crew and commentaries about climate change. Last week she joined a school strike in New York City where school officials allowed pupils the day off to attend the protest. In her impassioned address yesterday she said 'This is all wrong. I shouldn't be up here.I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean. 'Yet you have come to us young people for hope. How dare you?'You have stolen my dreams my childhood with your empty words. 'Yet I'm one of the lucky ones. People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth. How dare you?' 'The eyes of future generations are on you and if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you. We will not let you get away with this.' Trump sent a mocking tweet saying 'She seems like a very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future. So nice to see!' Fewer than half the 136 heads of government or state in New York this week to attend the UN General Assembly attended on Monday. Ahead of the conference the United Nations issued a release saying 66 countries vowed to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 along with 10 regions 102 cities and scores of businesses.	True	True	False	True	False
Trump regularly brags about making Americas air cleaner but evidence from his own Environmental Protection Agency EPA shows the opposite is happening The air we breathe is getting dirtier. New EPA data shows that since 2016 a decades long trend of improving air quality has started to backslide. In both 2017 and 2018 the number of unhealthy air days in metropolitan areas increased 15 compared to the last four years of President Obamas administration the Associated Press reported Tuesday. That's the exact opposite of what Trump regularly claims. During his embarrassing trip to Ireland in early June Trump said We have the cleanest air in the world in the United States and its gotten better since Im president. At his big rally Tuesday in Orlando Trump made a similar false claim We have among the cleanest and sharpest crystal clean youve heard me say it I want it crystal clean air and water anywhere on Earth. Air pollution leads to the premature death of 100000 Americans every year the AP reports and Trumps own EPA shows not only worse air pollution but a significant increase in the two worst categories very unhealthy and hazardous conditions. During the Trump administration U.S. cities saw air pollution in one of these two categories nearly 140 times which is almost three times as often as the average from 2013 to 2016. In fact the AP notes that the four years from 2013 and 2016 Obama's second term in office were a clean air heyday for America that boasted the fewest unhealthy air days since 1980. That heyday appears to be over for now. To make matters worse on Wednesday the EPA finalized what will be its biggest climate policy rollback according to the Washington Post. The new rule will allow coal plants to spew more pollution into the air than a previous rule put in place by President Obama. The new rule is really a dereliction of duty moral ethical but also legal Andres Restrepo a lawyer with the Sierra Club's Environmental Law Program told the Post. Scientists are unclear as to the exact reasons air pollution has gotten worse under Trump but they say its very clear that his policies will make the situation worse. There is zero reason to expect any other outcome than worsening air quality if Trump continues to roll back regulations Neil Donahue an engineering professor at Carnegie Mellon University told the AP. While Trump has been in office the air has gotten dirtier. His lies dont make it cleaner and his policies are on track to make it worse. Published with permission of The American Independent.	True	False	False	True	True
Reuters Hurricane Irma will pose the toughest test yet for U.S. nuclear power plants since reactors strengthened their defenses against natural disasters following the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear accident in Japan in 2011. Irma was on course to hit South Florida early on Sunday after slamming Cuba as a Category 5 storm. It weakened to a Category 3 storm with maximum sustained winds of 130 miles per hour 210 km per hour on Saturday but was expected to strengthen before reaching Florida bringing a storm surge to a state home to four coastal nuclear reactors. The National Hurricane Centers forecast track shows Irma making landfall on the southwest side of the Florida Peninsula west of the two nuclear reactors at the Turkey Point plant. The operator Florida Power Light FPL has said it will shut Turkey Point well before hurricane strength winds reach the plant. The reactors are about 30 miles 42 kilometers south of Miami. FPL said it will also shut the other nuclear plant in Florida at St Lucie which also has two reactors on a barrier island on the states east coast about 120 miles 193 km north of Miami. We will shut the reactors down 24 hours before Category 1 force winds are forecast to hit FPL Chief Executive Eric Silagy told a news conference. FPL said both Turkey Point and St Lucie were designed to withstand storms stronger than any ever recorded in the region and both plants are elevated 20 feet 6 meters above sea level to protect against flooding and extreme storm surges. But South Miami Mayor Philip Stoddard said he was concerned about the potential for floods to damage power generators at Turkey Point which in turn might threaten the ability of the plant to keep spent nuclear fuel rods cool. At Fukushima in Japan an earthquake and tsunami disrupted power supplies and caused the fuel in some units to meltdown. The whole site is pretty well able to handle dangerous wind the real problem from my perspective is water Stoddard said. He said he was more worried about the nuclear waste than the reactors. The real question is can they keep the spent fuel cool. Peter Robbins an FPL spokesman said Mayor Stoddard is wrong. Turkey Point is safe and is ready for Hurricane Irma. U.S. nuclear operators have taken steps to improve preparations for disasters since Fukushima. The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission NRC required plants to install portable pumps and generators to keep water moving over fuel rods and the spent fuel pool even if offsite power supply was lost. Nuclear plants also hired more staff and stored equipment needed to deal with reactor problems. Things are better today than in March 2011. Time will tell whether better proves good enough said Dave Lochbaum director of a watchdog group the nuclear safety project at the Union of Concerned Scientists. The NRC said it was posting more inspectors at the two Florida plants and was considering sending more inspectors to plants in Georgia and South Carolina should the storm head that way. The NRC said the plants should not be compromised by Irmas storm surge. The storm surge forecasts that we have seen so far do not challenge the sites designs said NRC spokesman Scott Burnell. Both Florida plants have previously weathered major storms. Turkey Point took a hit from Hurricane Andrew a Category 5 storm in 1992 damaging a smokestack at fossil fuel plant at the site. Repairs cost about 90 million. St Lucie withstood the back to back impact of Hurricanes Frances Category 2 and Jeanne Category 3 in 2004. FPL shut St Lucie last October as Hurricane Matthew skirted the Florida coast. Lochbaum said the NRC and the industry could do more to reduce vulnerability to flooding. In January 2014 about 50000 gallons of rainwater leaked into the St Lucie plant after a heavy downpour. An NRC study blamed degraded and missing flood seals that were not discovered during checks after Fukushima. There is also spent nuclear fuel at the site of a third power plant in Florida which stopped operating in 2009. That is the Crystal River plant owned by Duke Energy Corp. Duke is in the process of transferring used fuel from the spent fuel pool at the plant to dry cask storage as part of work to decommission the plant. Once in storage the fuel no longer needs cooling. The NRCs Burnell said Duke has suspended work to transfer the rods ahead of Irma. He said the fuel was safe and the plant also has backup power even though it has been shut for years. Irma is expected to disrupt much of Floridas power supply. FPL the states largest electric company has warned Irma could cut service to about 4.1 million of its nearly 5 million customers. FPL is one of four large publicly traded utilities in Florida. Other natural disasters since Fukushima have shut some plants. An earthquake in Virginia in 2011 shut Dominion Energy Incs North Anna plant for about 2 12 months the time it took to complete a full damage inspection. That plant sustained no major damage. Hurricane Sandy in 2012 caused three reactors in the U.S. Northeast to shut but inflicted no serious damage.	False	False	False	True	True
wikimedia commons Its now inevitable that the contiguous United States will lose all of its glaciers within a matter of decades according to scientists who have revealed the precipitous shrinkage of dozens of glaciers in Montana. Warming temperatures have rapidly reduced the size of 39 named glaciers in Montana since 1966 according to comparisons released by the US Geological Survey USGS and Portland State University. Some have lost as much as 85 of their expanse over the past 50 years with Glacier national park site of 37 of the surveyed glaciers set to lose all of its eponymous ice formations within the next few decades. Of the 150 glaciers that existed in the park in the late 19th century only 26 remain. The disappearance of glaciers in Montana is part of a broader loss that will see all glaciers defined as moving bodies of snow and ice larger than 25 acres largely vanish from the lower 48 states of America by the mid point of the century according to Dr Daniel Farge lead USGS scientist. Its inevitable that we will lose them all over the next few decades Farge said. The Colorado glaciers started melting before Montanas and while there are larger glaciers in the Pacific north west that will hold on longer the number vanishing will steadily grow until none are left. Andrew Fountain a geologist at Portland State added While the shrinkage in Montana is more severe than some other places in the US it is in line with trends that have been happening on a global scale. Rising temperatures Montana is warming nearly twice as quickly as the global average and changes in precipitation patterns are eroding away glaciers in the state and elsewhere along the Rocky mountains. Last year scientists in Colorado found that the Arikaree glacier which is likely more than 1000 years old has been thinning by around a metre 3.2ft a year over the past decade and will vanish within 25 years. 	True	False	False	True	False
There is a wave of energy related ballot initiatives for voters to weigh in on this election year. Voters from Washington to Florida will be able to partake in important energy policy decisions for their states. Will Washington become the first state to tax carbon dioxide emissions? Will California undo a gas tax increase passed just seven months ago? The Daily Caller News Foundation lays out everything one needs to know about the six most important energy battles this election. RELATED Severe Storms Brewing For Election Day Threaten To Swing Tight Races Washington voters will decide whether or not to tax carbon dioxide emissions a policy championed by Democratic Gov. Jay Inslee and many Democrats and environmentalists who want to fight man made global warming. The ballot measure called Initiative 1631 would tax carbon dioxide emissions from industrial sources at 15 per ton in 2020 which would increase every year to reduce emissions. Supporters say the measure could raise more than 1 billion in revenue. Opponents however point out a carbon tax would raise the price of virtually every good while having no impact on future global warming. The tax would cost households and extra 175 per year in 2020 according to some estimates. The battle of Initiative 1631 has become the most expensive in state history so far drawing 45 million from both sides of the policy. Carbon tax opponents led by the oil and gas industry pumped 30 million into opposing the ballot measure and proponents have spent 15 million. An Octoberpoll found 50 percent of Washington voters favored the carbon tax while 36 percent opposed it. Colorado voters could end up banning hydraulic fracturing in most of the state. Polls show strong support for Proposition 112. The ballot measure if enacted would prohibit oil and gas drilling within 2500 feet of any building or vulnerable area including waterways and playgrounds. Thats more than double the current state buffer for oil and gas operations. A September poll put support for Proposition 112 at 60 percent but many prominent Democrats have come out against the measure. Democratic opponents include former Interior Secretary Ken Salazar and former Gov. Bill Ritter. Supporters say the ballot measure would protect public health but opponents say its a red herring meant as a de facto ban on fracking. The measure would ban oil and gas drilling on more than 80 percent of non federal lands in the state experts said. California voters seem poised to repeal a gas tax hike signed into law only seven months ago that added an extra 12 cents per gallon and up to a 175 license fee for vehicle registration. A University of California Berkeley poll from October found nearly 58 percent of voters opposed the gas tax increase. The political battle heated up that month when gas tax opponents threatened to recall Attorney General Xavier Becerra a Democrat for allegedly trying to mislead voters about the proposal. Gas tax repeal proponents are also backing an initiative to halt spending on Californias high speed rail project and use any unspent funds to improve roads. Tom Steyer Is Behind Ballot Measures In Arizona and Nevada Liberal billionaire Tom Steyers campaign group NextGen Climate Action is backing ballot measures in Arizona and Nevada that would require both states to get 50 percent of their electricity from renewables like wind and solar. Steyer pumped more than 20 million into the campaign but opponents accused Steyers group of using forged and fake signaturesto get the green energy mandate on Arizonas ballot. Steyers group has spent more than 10 million in support of Nevadas green ballot measure. Pinnacle West the parent company of Arizonas largest utility spent more than 30 million opposing the green energy mandate according to Ballotpedia. Under current laws Arizona is required to get 15 percent of its electricity from renewables and Nevada utilities are required to get 25 percent of their power from green sources. Florida To Decide On Offshore Drilling And Vaping? Floridas Amendment 9 ballot measure if enacted would ban offshore oil and gas drilling in state waters and ban e cigarettes from being used in enclosed workplaces. The measure is backed by Democratic and environmental groups opposed to offshore drilling and apparently vaping indoors. Its opposed by Republicans the oil and gas industry and the Consumer Advocates for Smoke Free Alternatives Association a group that advocates for e cigarettes. Opponents have attacked the ballot measure for its odd pairing of issues smoking and offshore drilling. Many opponents of offshore drilling ended up opposing the measure because of its prohibition on vaping indoors. While our editorial board opposes offshore drilling in state waters we also are philosophically opposed to the Constitution Revision Commissions bundling of these unrelated issues into a single amendment the editorial board of Treasure Coast Newspapers wrote in October.	False	False	False	True	True
In the last year alone California has seen catastrophic wildfires burn thousands of acres. On Tuesday the ongoing Camp Fire in Northern California became the state's deadliest blaze in history. How do these deadly fires start and why is California so susceptible? Officials define wildfires or wildland fires as any fire occurring on undeveloped land. Forest fires are uncontrolled wildfires burning in lands covered at least in part by timber or flammable vegetation. In nature two things can spark wildfires lava and lightning. According to the National Park Service 90 of wildfires in the US are caused by humans whether by unattended campfires burning debris cigarettes or arson. About 2 of California's 2816 wildfires in 2016 were caused by lightning according to data from the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection Cal Fire. The majority could be attributed to humans though only 8 were caused by arson. According to Prof David Peterson of the University of Washington a former senior researcher with the US Forest Service fires in the region have not necessarily increased in frequency in the last 100 years but the area affected has. The area burned annually has been higher during the past 30 years or so he told the BBC. It should be noted that 2 of fires burn 98 of the area. In California recent years have seen a combination of extremely high temperatures strong winds a long drought and population growth causing lethal fast moving blazes. Last year the state had over 9500 wildfires that burned over a million acres according to the National Interagency Fire Center and had the highest number of homes and buildings lost in one state. And straying away from natural burning cycles has also contributed to the lethality of recent fires Prof Peterson says. Keeping fires from starting in Western forests has caused fuel to accumulate far beyond historical levels. Therefore when fires occur they can burn hotter he says. These high intensity fires can cause rapid and in some cases long term changes in vegetation making it more difficult for the ecosystem to recover. Once evacuation orders are issued by local law enforcement residents generally have hours to leave Cal Fire information officer Kathleen Schori told the BBC. But in those initial stages of fire you may have minutes she added. Fleeing in a vehicle is ideal as most wildfires cannot be outrun. But the Camp Fire's especially rapid spread fuelled by high winds made the situation even more dangerous. This fire moved so fast I don't think anybody did anything wrong Ms Schori says when asked whether those forced to abandon vehicles and escape on foot could have acted differently. During the initial phases it was burning 80 miles in an hour. She stressed the importance of following evacuation orders immediately especially with fast moving blazes. If you don't evacuate and it becomes a rescue situation then our firefighters are taken away from the firefight and moved to the rescue. Sometimes you do fight fire with fire. In addition to old fashioned water and flame retardant delivered from ground level and above the flames by aircraft sometimes firefighters have to burn more to quell the flames. Intentionally burning areas around a wildfire can help starve the blaze and control its direction. Clearing out brush and flammable material from an area to create firebreaks is another way to achieve the same. Ninety eight percent of fires are small andor suppressed quickly Prof Peterson says. The other 2 are very challenging when they get large and are almost impossible to put out at least until it rains. Ms Schori of Cal Fire said that with wind driven blazes like the Camp Fire officials often have no choice but to wait for conditions to improve. There are never enough firefighters to combat a fire that's moving as fast as this was moving she says. You have to deploy your resources on each side of the fire and continue to construct lines. And when that wind stops then you can safely get in front it. Prof Peterson says there is no hard evidence that climate change has affected US wildfires yet. We expect that there will be significant effects in future decades as the climate continues to warm he told the BBC. A warming climate Prof Peterson explained would increase the duration of the fire season and more droughts would in turn create more wildfire fuel. Globally the length of the wildfire season has already increased by nearly 19 between 1978 and 2013. By around 2050 fires may burn two to three times more area than they have historically. According to 2017 data from Verisk Analytics 4.5 million US homes were in areas of high or extreme wildfire risk and over 2 million of those homes were in California. Damage caused by wildfires has cost 5.1bn in the last decade Verisk found. In California homeowners who do not qualify for private insurance coverage can opt into a statewide pool called the Fair Access to Insurance Requirements FAIR plan. FAIR is comprised of all property and casualty insurers in California and is not run by a state agency.	False	False	True	True	False
This story was originally published byHuffPostand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration. The Evergreen States third and latest attempt to put a price on climate pollution failed Tuesday as voters rejected the historic ballot measure notching yet another win for the oil and gas industry. The measure known as Initiative 1631 aimed to put a levy of 15 per metric ton of carbon dioxide emissions starting in January 2020. The fee would have increased 2 annually until the state met its goals for cutting heat trapping gas pollution. The revenue was designed to be directed toward projects accelerating the states shift away from fossil fuels including expanding public transit energy efficiency retrofits for big buildings and new wind and solar powered plants. Washington already tried to pass more traditional carbon taxes. In November 2016 voters rejected a proposal for a tax of 25 per metric ton of carbon dioxide which aimed to cut the state sales tax 1 percent fund a tax credit of up to 1500 for low income households and cut the tax rate for manufacturers. In March a bill to enact a carbon tax escalating 1.80 per ton each year until hitting 30 in 2031 failed in the state Senate when it fell one or two votes short prompting the sponsor to pull the legislation. But Initiative 1631 took a different approach imposing the carbon price in the form of a fee. Under Washington State law a feeas opposed to a taxcannot be spent on government expenses such as public education or welfare meaning all the revenue the fee raises must fund climate related projects. That put it more in line with the Green New Deal a term progressive activists coined to describe a set of proposals for major government spending plans to mitigate the impacts of climate change. Scientists say such policies are necessary to make the kinds of emissions cuts required to avert the worst impacts of climate change. Just last month a sobering United Nations report found that world government must halve global emissions over the next 12 years to avoid cataclysmic warming and that technologies to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere are still likely necessary. Yet fears over rising gas prices proved more convincing to Evergreen State voters. The Western States Petroleum Association raised over 31 milliona record for Washington ballot initiativesfor its No campaign spending nearly 30 million of it by the start of this month. The campaign dispensed 10.8 million in the last two weeks of October alone. The loss came as Coloradans voted down Proposition 112 a measure that would have put about 85 percent of non federal land in the Centennial State off limits to oil and gas drilling.	True	True	False	True	True
Donald Trump has singlehandedly been working to set back U.S. climate policy 50 years. Heoutraged the world by exiting the Paris climate agreement. He fired scientists from government advisory positions. He signed a bill to let coal mines dump waste into streams. He is trying to undo the Clean Power Plan fuel economy standards for carsoffshore drilling restrictions and solar tax credits. But at the state level politicians are fighting back and nowhere more so than in California. On Monday the California state legislature passed a sweeping deal to extend the states current cap and trade program until 2030. The law requires businesses to buy credits based on their volume of greenhouse pollution. The passage of this bill is a rare bipartisan victory. Democrats control both chambers of the California legislature but the bill required a supermajority. Republicans cast the deciding votes amid the endorsement of prominent California GOP politicians like former Gov. Pete Wilson. California has been at the forefront of the climate change fight ever since Trump was elected. Gov. Jerry Brown made news in December for telling Trump that if he scuttles climate research satellites California will launch its own damn satellites. More recently Brown helped found the United States Climate Alliance a group of state and local governments pledging to abide by the Paris climate agreement even after the federal government withdraws. So far 10 states including two with Republican governors have joined as well as several major cities. Even if Trump is willing to turn his back on our allies and our future to roll back the clock on environmental protection states like California are standing up and assuming the mantle of leadership.The fight for the environment is a fight for the secure future of human civilization and Trump cannot stop that fight.	True	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON Michigan GOP Rep. Tim Walberg isnt concerned about the effects of climate change if it exists because God will take care of it. Walberg was speaking to constituents in Coldwater Mich. last week when he was asked about climate change. Walbergwho has previously questioned the existence of global warmingfirst joked that he could take some global warming at home in Michigan because it was too cold and some global cooling in Washingtonbecause of the humidity. Walberg then conceded that the climate was changing before adding that wasn't anything new. I believe theres climate change Walberg said according to a video of the exchange obtained first published by the Huffington Post. I believe theres been climate change since the beginning of time. I think there are cycles. Do I think man has some impact? Yeah of course. Can man change the entire universe? No. Why do I believe that? he continued. Well as a Christian I believe that there is a creator in God who is much bigger than us. And Im confident that if theres a real problem he can take care of it. On Thursday afternoon President Trump is expected to announce whether the United States will remain a member of the Paris climate agreement. Trump hasnt announced whether hell make good on his campaign promise to leave the pact which includes every country besidesSyria and Nicaragua but multiple outlets have reported he's leaning towards dropping out.	True	True	False	True	False
Air pollution is not just bad for health also makes people unhappy a new study has shown. Researchers at MIT and the University of Beijing discovered a direct link between the amount of particulates in the air and happiness. Research has previously shown that air pollution is damaging to health cognitive performance labor productivity and educational outcomes. But air pollution also has a broader impact on people's social lives and behavior according Siqi Zheng the Samuel Tak Lee Associate Professor in MIT's Department of Urban Studies Pollution also has an emotional cost said Dr Zheng. People are unhappy and that means they may make irrational decisions. Researchers used pollution data from 144 Chinese cities and monitored general happiness of urban dwellers by looking at the mood using 210 million messages from China's largest microblogging platform Sina Weibo. They found a significantly negative correlation between pollution and happiness levels with every increase in pollution above a healthy level bringing happiness down by 0.04 points out of 100. On Monday some parts of London recorded Air Quality Index AQI levels of 151 more than 100 points above healthy limits. It suggests that people were four points unhappier than they would have been without polluted levels. For China pollution can rise into the 700s which could be having a major impact on happiness. Women were also found to me more sensitive to higher pollution levels than men as were those on higher incomes. The research was published in the journal Nature Human Behaviour.	False	False	False	True	False
The New York Times published an unreleased draft of the report Monday. The 543 page report was written by scientists from 13 federal agencies including the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.It concludes that temperatures in the U.S. have risen sharply by 1.6 degrees Fahrenheit over the last 150 years and that it is extremely likely that most of the global mean temperature increase since 1951 was caused by human influence on climate. Evidence for a changing climate abounds from the top of the atmosphere to the depths of the oceans the report states. Thousands of studies conducted by tens of thousands of scientists around the world have documented changes in surface atmospheric and oceanic temperatures melting glaciers disappearing snow cover shrinking sea ice rising sea level and an increase in atmospheric water vapor. Many lines of evidence demonstrate that human activities especially emissions of greenhouse heat trapping gases are primarily responsible for recent observed climate changes. The report completed this year and part of the National Climate Assessment has already been approved by theNational Academy of Sciences according to the Times. Its release hinges on the Trump administrations approval and one scientist who worked on the report told the Times that he and others feared the president would withhold it. Also the frequency of extreme weather events including heavy rain and heat waves has increased and is very likely to continue to do so. And since 1880 global sea levels have risen 8 to 9 inches roughly 3 of those inches since 1990 with human activity playing a substantial role according to the report. In a post to Twitter Gavin Schmidt a climate scientist and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies said that nothing in the report is surprising for people working in the field but that it may be shocking to those that think climate change is just a future problem. The report delivers a strikingly different message than the one being pushed by Trump and his Cabinet members who continue to downplay the urgency of the threat as they work toward energy dominance. Since taking office Trump who famously called climate change bullshit and a Chinese hoax has moved quickly toderail Americas actions to combat climate change including rolling back President Barack ObamasClean Power Plan a policy limiting greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. Trump has pegged himself as a savior of Americas dying coal industry and has vowed to increase oil and gas production openingnow protected areasof the Arctic and Atlantic oceans to drilling. In June he announced plans topull the U.S. out of the historic Paris Agreement on climate change the international accord in which nearly 200 countries committed to slashing carbon emissions in an effort to prevent global temperatures fromincreasing 2 degrees Celsiusabove pre industrial levelsthe line scientists say the world must stay below to stave off the very worst effects of climate change. Meanwhile his Cabinet members have refused to say whether Trump believes climate change is real and continue to question how much the scientific community understands about the threat and the role humans play in observed changes. In MarchEnvironmental Protection AgencyheadScott Pruitttold CNBC No I would not agreethat carbon dioxide is a primary contributor to the global warming that we see. And in June Energy Secretary Rick Perry echoed Pruitts comments saying no when asked byCNBC whether he believes carbon dioxide is the primary control knob for the temperature of the Earth and for climate. Most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in Perry said.I mean the fact is this shouldnt be a debate about Is the climate changing? Is man having an effect on it? Yeah we are. The question should be you know just how much and what are the policy changes that we need to make to affect that? Also in June Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke said glaciers in Montanas Glacier National Park started melting right after the end of the Ice Age and that it has been a consistent melt. He also dismissed the notion that government scientists can predict with certainty how much warming will occur by 2100 under a business as usual scenario.	False	False	False	True	False
PAHOA Hawaii Reuters A large explosion in Hawaiis Kilauea volcano on Wednesday may mark the beginning of more violent explosive eruptions that could spray rocks for miles kilometers and dust nearby towns in volcanic ash and smog the U.S. Geological Survey said. Kilauea Hawaiis most active volcano erupted on Thursday and a powerful earthquake shook the crater the next day. Lava flows from fissures on its flank have destroyed at least 36 homes and other buildings and caused the evacuation of some 2000 residents. The USGS warned that more violent eruptions at the crater could begin mid May shooting rocks weighing several tons for over half a mile 1 km hurling pebble sized projectiles several miles km and dusting areas up 20 miles 32 km away with ash. This is the first of perhaps more events like that to come Tina Neal the scientist in charge of the USGS Hawaiian Volcano Observatory said on a conference call of Wednesdays blast which shot projectiles from the crater. The town of Hilo some 25 miles 40 km northeast of Kilauea on Hawaiis Big Island and the village of Pahoa 24 miles 39 km east could be exposed to volcanic air pollution or so called vog and a layer of ash should explosive eruptions begin and prevailing wind directions shift Neal said. Such steam driven explosions would be triggered by water running into the craters falling lava lake should it drop below the level of groundwater. Geologists cautioned that Kilaueas past explosions had been relatively small on a global scale and while ash from the volcano posed a nuisance as an eye and respiratory irritant it was not a serious health hazard. We dont anticipate there being any wholesale devastation or evacuations necessary anywhere in the state of Hawaii said Donald Swanson of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory.USGS Hawaii County Civil Defense said all 1900 residents of the Leilani Estates and Laipuna Garden areas around 25 miles 40 km east of the crater had been evacuated. Lava oozing from two new fissures in the area had paused but sulfur dioxide gas was still a hazard. Exposure to very high levels of the gas which causes acid rain can be life threatening according to the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. Evacuee David Nail was anxious to learn if his house had been destroyed. He was asleep on the couch when a fissure opened up 2000 feet 610 meters away spewing out lava and gas. It sounded like 10 or 20 jet engines said Nail. The 57 year old who recently retired to the area from Orange County California said he had seen drone footage showing lava flowing up his driveway causing two propane tanks to explode. He tried to reach his house on Tuesday but he and his neighbors were blocked by a 20 foot tall 6 meter tall wall of lava. All we could do was sit there and cry he said. Fourteen fissures have opened since Kilaueas vents started spraying fountains of lava up to 300 feet 90 meters into the air on Thursday and about 104 acres 42 hectares of land have been covered with lava. Kilauea has been in a state of nearly constant eruption for 35 years. It predominantly blows off basaltic lava in effusive eruptions that flow into the ocean but occasionally experiences more explosive events. A powerful magnitude 6.9 earthquake on the volcanos south flank shook the area on Friday. It was the second largest of the last century in Hawaii. More earthquakes and eruptions have been forecast perhaps for months to come. Hawaiis Volcanoes National Park where Kilauea is located remains open to tourists albeit with some restrictions.	True	False	False	False	False
The trough is about 3.5 km about 2 miles below sea level but there is no ocean water there. Instead it is filled with ice flowing from the interior of the ice sheet towards the coast. The trough measures about 100 km in length and is 20 km wide according to the study. This new discovery was presented at the American Geophysical Union's Fall Meeting in San Francisco. Dr. Mathieu Morlighem an associate professor in the Department of Earth System Science at the University of California at Irvine is leading this project. The biggest challenge about the project is that Antarctica is HUGE! he said excitedly. It's bigger than the U.S. and Mexico combined. Morlighem and his team used a new technology called BedMachine to make this discovery. They developed a new generation ice sheet model but it was not behaving as expected. The artificial glacier growing in the desert After months of investigation we realized that it was not because we were missing important processes. It was because the bed topography under the ice was missing many important features such as troughs ridges valleys etc he said. And because of the size of the area they were trying to map the process was very time consuming. The team combined radar measurements with high precision surface motion data from satellites and snow accumulation from regional climate models to get a good estimate of the shape of the bed where it had not been measured. We applied this mapping technique to the entire ice sheet and we discovered this very deep valley hidden underneath the ice sheet Morlighem said. He said one of the challenges they faced during the project was gathering all the available data since there have been many radar surveys but done by different institutions in different countries. They also had some surprises on the way. The main ones are these ridges across the Transantarctic Mountains Denman glacier but also some other glaciers feeding the Ronne Ice Shelf that seem to be more vulnerable than we thought Morlighem said. Morlighem says climate change could impact this region. A massive waterfall formed on Greenland's ice sheet. Here's why it matters We now have to monitor this glacier carefully. If its grounding line where the ice starts to float starts to retreat in this deep canyon it could retreat rapidly due to a mechanism called Marine Ice Sheet Instability. he said. Glaciers that flow on beds that deepen inland are unstable and so the glacier will potentially have to retreat all the way until the bed rises again leading to significant sea level rise. It could be one of the most vulnerable sectors of East Antarctica which holds significantly more ice than west Antarctica. But there is good news as far as climate change goes. The study says that major glaciers flowing through the Transantarctic Mountains and across Victoria Land are found to be protected by broad stabilizing topographic ridges near their grounding lines that reflect the surrounding topographic relief. The glaciers flowing across the Transantarctic Mountains all have a pronounced ridge across their troughs Morlighem said. These ridges were unknown and make this sector of the ice sheet extremely resilient to increase in ocean induced melting. In other words he said If the Ross Ice Shelf destabilizes it should not lead to a collapse of East Antarctica.	False	False	False	True	False
WASHINGTON Reuters The Trump administration on Thursday proposed easing Obama era limits on oil and gas industry emissions of methane one of the main pollutants scientists link to climate change. The Environmental Protection Agency EPA said easing the 2016 regulation that targeted methane would save energy companies up to 123 million through 2025. The plan will undergo a period of public comment before being finalized and environmental groups pledged court action to try to block repeal of the limits. The proposal removes unnecessary and duplicative regulatory burdens from the oil and gas industry EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said in a release. The EPA said it will keep rules issued in 2012 that limit emissions known as volatile organic compounds that cause smog and also control some methane emissions. Some large energy companies including BP favor federal regulation of methane saying the regulatory certainty is preferable to a patchwork of varying rules by states and legal challenges by environmentalists. BP has said it is already taking steps to limit methane emissions. The move is the Trump administrations latest easing of rules designed to curb greenhouse gas emissions including many put forth by his predecessor President Barack Obama. President Donald Trump who insists he is an environmentalist has also relaxed rules on carbon emissions from vehicles and intends to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris agreement on climate change. Concern about climate has heightened in recent weeks amid fires in the Arctic and the Amazon rainforest and melting of ice in Greenland. Democrats seeking their partys nomination in the 2020 U.S. presidential election will participate in a series of town halls on climate next week. In 2016 Obamas EPA issued the first rule limiting methane emissions from new oil and gas fracking operations including transport equipment. Thursdays proposal would repeal those regulations. The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions a major factor in global warming. The gas has more than 80 times the heat trapping potential of carbon dioxide in the first 20 years after it escapes into the atmosphere scientists say. Susan Dio chairman and president of BP America supported federal regulation of methane in an opinion piece in the Houston Chronicle earlier this year calling it the the best way to help further reduce and ultimately eliminate methane emissions industrywide. Environmentalists vowed to sue the administration over the proposal. We simply cannot protect our children and grandchildren from climate catastrophe if EPA lets this industry off scot free said David Doniger a climate and clean energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council. If EPA moves forward with this reckless and sinister proposal we will see them in court.	True	True	True	False	False
There are growing fears that the unchecked use of antibiotics in both medicine and agriculture will have adverse effects on the environment and on human health AFP PhotoLOIC VENANCE Paris AFP Residues from billions of doses of antibiotics painkillers and antidepressants pose a significant risk to freshwater ecosystems and the global food chain a new analysis said Thursday. There are growing fears that the unchecked use of antibiotics in both medicine and agriculture will have adverse effects on the environment and on human health. When animals and humans ingest medicines up to 90 percent of active ingredients are excreted back into the environment. Many medicines are simply discarded in the United States alone an estimated one third of the four billion drugs prescribed each year ends up as waste. The Organisation for Economic Co operation and Development OECD compared data on concentrations of pharmaceutical residue in water samples worldwide as well as prescribing trends and water purification regulations in various countries. One study cited in its report estimates that 10 percent of all pharmaceuticals are potentially harmful to the environment including hormones painkillers and antidepressants. The OECD said that antibiotic use for livestock is predicted to rocket by more than two thirds in the next decade stoking concerns over antibiotic resistance. Human prescriptions are also set to drastically increase according to the report. We're seeing constant engineering of new pharmaceuticals and seeing clinical practices evolve to include recommendations of earlier treatment and higher doses said the lead report author Hannah Leckie. Another study cited said extremely high concentrations of pharmaceutical products had already been detected in water ways in China India Israel South Korea and the United States. In Britain alone ethinyloestradiol diclofenac ibuprofen propranolol and antibiotics are now present in the run off of 890 wastewater treatment plants at high enough levels to cause adverse environmental effects according to another study. The residues of pharmaceuticals have been detected in surface and ground water across the world said Leckie. However there's still a lot we don't know about their occurence and know even less about the concentrations we find. More than 700000 people already die each year from drug resistant infections. As the global population grows and ages and prescribing rates continue to climb that figure is set to hit 10 million annually by 2050 higher than the number of people dying from cancer. Unless adequate measures are taken to manage the risks pharmaceutical residues will increasingly be released into the environment as ageing populations advances in healthcare and intensification of meat and fish production spur the demand for pharmaceuticals worldwide the report said. And the situation is set to get even more acute as climate change increases the spread and frequency of infectious diseases such as malaria and dengue. Leckie said there was something of a vicious circle when it came to medical prescriptions and climate related disease. Human activity such as population growth and transport combined with climate change increases antibacterial resistance... and therefore the need for more pharmaceuticals.	True	False	False	True	True
Following the pile up of months and months of scandals EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt is finally out which means a significantly less notorious successor is now in. Introduced to the world via a tweet from President Donald Trump EPA Deputy Administrator Andrew Wheeler is set to take over the position in an acting capacity. Wheeler who was confirmed for the EPA deputy role in April appears to be cut from much of the same cloth as his former boss when it comes to rolling back environmental regulations. Here are three key facts to know about the person who will soon be overseeing the Environmental Protection Agency. Wheeler age 55 is a former lobbyist who represented Murray Energy a massive mining company as one of his chief clients. Murray Energy was among the companies Wheeler listed on his financial disclosures while he was being considered for the deputy administrator position. Others included Xcel Energy and General Mills. Murray Energy CEO Robert Murray is also a well known Trump adviser and supporter who Wheeler worked with closely. As a New York Times story lays out Murray was the architect of a so called environmental regulations wish list which detailed a list of policies aimed at reinvigorating the coal industry like curbing restrictions on greenhouse gases and slashing staff at the EPA. Wheeler and Murray were photographed at a March 2017 meeting with Energy Secretary Rick Perry where many of these policies were purportedly discussed. All this suggests that Wheeler wont be particularly aggressive toward the coal industry while in office. Andrew Wheelers coal credentials are without equal Sen. Edward Markey has said according to CBS News. He is without question a member of the coal industrys Hall of Fame. Wheeler was also a longtime staffer for Sen. Jim Inhofe serving as chief counsel for the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee while the lawmaker was chair according to Inside Climate News. All told Wheeler spent 14 years working with Inhofe on the Hill. Inhofe was among Pruitts biggest fans although the barrage of scandals ultimately began to dim his enthusiasm. Inhofe is known for denying that climate change is affected by human activity once throwing a snowball onto the Senate floor to counter arguments about climate change and prove that it was very very cold outside. His former staffers have become nicknamed by some as the Inhofe mafia. During Wheelers testimony in a congressional hearing last fall he dodged a question about climate change I believe that man has an impact on the climate but its not completely understood what that impact is he said according to Inside Climate News. As the New York Times points out however there is one crucial way that Wheeler differs from his departing boss. Pruitt was Oklahomas attorney general before being named to Trumps Cabinet and an outsider who recklessly took advantage of the privileges he obtained. Wheeler is seen as a seasoned political operative who knows how to carefully traverse the system. He was also at the EPA as a special assistant in the agencys Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics for four years before he worked for Inhofe. Pruitts goals as EPA administrator have centered on crafting or destroying policy in order to establish a friendlier regime for the fossil fuel industry. His efforts have included revising emissions standards for cars and trucks increasing his control over the implementation of the Clean Water Act and weakening standards on hazardous chemicals. It appears that Wheeler is on track to do more of the same and his insider instincts and methodical nature could mean even more effective rollbacks. A number of Pruitt policies are thought to be shoddily constructed and have faced significant legal challenges. As Trump said himself I have no doubt that Andy will continue on with our great and lasting EPA agenda.	False	False	False	True	True
The Environmental Protection Agencys 90 day suspension of new emission standards on oil and gas wells has been struck down by a US appeals court. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has long sought a repeal of the Obama era rules. A three judge panel of the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled 2 1 that the EPA would be allowed to reconsider a 2016 ruling that limited methane and smog forming pollutants emitted by oil and gas wells but could not delay the date it begins. Two judges concluded the administration record thus makes clear that industry groups had ample opportunity to comment on all four issues on which EPA granted reconsideration and indeed that in several instances the agency incorporated those comments directly into the final rule. READ MOREMining in Alaska may return as EPA scraps Obama era regulations Pruitt the new head of the EPA had been looking to extend a suspension on these activities for two years. There will be a separate administration public hearing on the same extension next Monday according to the Washington Post. The courts ruling is yet another reminder now in the context of environmental protection that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the presidents desire to order immediate change Richard Lazarus environmental law professor at Harvard Law School said in an email as reported by the Post. Lazarus continued the DC Circuits ruling today makes clear that neither the president nor his EPA administrator Scott Pruitt can by fiat unilaterally and instantaneously repeal or otherwise stay the effectiveness of the environmental protection rules put into place during the Obama administration. Former President Barack Obama had put in place a rule in 2016 that was connected to a regulatory strategy which sought to reduce methane emissions. At the time Pruitt was the Attorney General of Oklahoma and he and others sued the EPA to overturn the legislation. Pruitt has also begun to move on suspending or revoking many other measures which were implemented during the Obama years. This includes a two year delay on a certain regulations aimed at minimizing chemical accidents.	True	True	False	True	True
U.S. Formally Begins To Leave The Paris Climate Agreement The Trump administration has formally notified the United Nations that the U.S. is withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement. The withdrawal will be complete this time next year after a one year waiting period has elapsed. We will continue to work with our global partners to enhance resilience to the impacts of climate change and prepare for and respond to natural disasters Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a statement Monday. Nearly 200 countries signed on to the agreement in 2015 and made national pledges to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Each country set its own goals and many wealthy countries including the U.S. also agreed to help poorer countries pay for the costs associated with climate change. The U.S. is now the only country to pull out of the pact. The United States is not cooperating with the rest of the world on dealing with climate change says Andrew Light a former climate official in the State Department who helped develop the Paris Agreement. The agreement was designed to be easier to join than to leave. The U.S. even helped spearhead language that would hold countries accountable for the promises they made in part to help guard against regime changes and other global political turmoil. Indeed in the years since the pact was created many key international players including Brazil China Japan and India have experienced economic or political upheaval but none has withdrawn from the Paris Agreement as a result. President Trump originally announced his intention to withdraw from the deal in the summer of 2017 shortly after he took office. At the time he said As of today the United States will cease all implementation of the agreement including federal policies meant to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as well as U.S. contributions to the international climate fund for poorer nations. These agreements are just only as good as the commitments from each country Light says. The U.S. had pledged to reduce national greenhouse gas emissions by about a quarter by 2025 compared with 2005 levels. The country is not on track to achieve that goal. In the intervening years the Trump administration has systematically attempted to roll back federal limits on carbon emissions including rules about how much pollution can be emitted by power plants cars and trucks. The reality is to really deliver on our climate goals we do need strong federal action says Rachel Cleetus of the Union of Concerned Scientists. The unfortunate reality is U.S. carbon emissions actually rose last year. This isn't the first time the U.S. has reneged on an international climate agreement. The U.S. failed to ratify the 1997 Kyoto Protocol despite being instrumental in its creation. In this case the U.S. became a signatory to the agreement but almost immediately signaled that it didn't intend to pursue its responsibilities. In both cases the U.S. was instrumental in developing the international strategy. That's one of the ironies of all this Light says. When the Paris Agreement was being negotiated the U.S. delegation pushed for more transparency and accountability to make sure the countries that signed on would actually do what they promised. Even though we're the ones who have been pointing to these potential scenarios for problems with other countries we seem to be the biggest problem Light says. If we were a tiny country with small emissions it wouldn't matter so much he says. But we're not. We're a big country with a lot of power and a lot of influence around the world. And so for us to be the exception on this issue is holding the world back. A formal withdrawal is reversible however if a future administration chooses to rejoin the Paris Agreement and pick up where the U.S. left off with its emissions reduction promises.	True	False	False	True	True
The Environmental Protection Agency is poised to dismantle the federal clean water rule which protects waterways that provide drinking water for about a third of the US population. The EPA with the US army has proposed scrapping the rule in order to conduct a substantive re evaluation of which rivers streams wetlands and other bodies of water should be protected by the federal government. We are taking significant action to return power to the states and provide regulatory certainty to our nations farmers and businesses said Scott Pruitt administrator of the EPA. Pruitt said the EPA would swiftly redefine clean water regulations in a thoughtful transparent and collaborative way with other agencies and the public. Green groups however said the move pandered to fossil fuel and farming interests and was part of an agenda to weaken clean water protections. Once again the Trump administration has agreed to do the bidding of the worst polluters in our country and once again its putting the health of American families and communities at risk said Michael Brune executive director of Sierra Club. We will fight this and every other attempt by polluters and the Trump administration to destroy our water resources. The planned rollback follows an executive order penned by Donald Trump in February which called for a review of the regulation also known as the waters of the United States rule that was introduced by the Obama administration in 2015. The rule was meant to end years of confusion over which waterways were federally protected from pollution with the clean water rule simply designating navigable waters for safeguards. The Obama administration widened this definition to include the drinking water of about 117 million Americans. But while the rule was applauded by environmentalists for improving drinking water protections and aiding wildlife that relies on wetlands it was attacked by some farmers and golf course operators who claimed it hindered their ability to manage their land. Trump has called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation and a massive power grab. Signing his order the president said thousands of jobs were at risk because the EPA decided that navigable waters can mean nearly every puddle or every ditch on a farmers land or anyplace else that they decide. While puddles arent mentioned in the rule the EPA does have greater latitude to regulate under it. However there is no evidence that the regulation could result in the loss of thousands of jobs. The National Mining Association another opponent of the rule and representative of an industry relentlessly backed by Trump welcomed its impending demise. This sets in motion a welcome correction to a deeply problematic regulation that ignored the careful balance that Congress struck between federal and state water regulation and constitutional limits on federal authority said Hal Quinn NMA president and chief executive. The clean water rule reversal which will now go through a period of public comment ahead of a final decision is the latest in a string of regulations to be paused or scrapped by the Trump administration. In recent months the EPA has wound back rules curbing vehicle emissions toxic waste from power plants and methane leaks from oil and gas drilling operations.	True	True	False	False	True
Included in the Bureau of Land Managements September oil and gas lease sale is about 47 square miles 122 square kilometers of land north of Hovenweep National Monument a group of prehistoric villages overlooking a canyon with connections to several indigenous tribes throughout the U.S. Southwest. The parcels for lease are about five to 20 miles eight to 32 kilometers north of the monument. The sale comes amid an ongoing debate over drilling in states like Colorado Arizona and New Mexico where a coalition of tribes are calling for a halt on energy development near land that Native Americans consider sacred. The Trump administration has pushed to open vast expanses of public lands to oil and gas drilling speed up the construction of petroleum pipelines and ease federal environmental regulations dismissing calls from scientists in and out of government that immediate cuts in oil gas and coal emissions are required to stave off the worst of climate change. When this oil and gas leasing happens on or near sacred lands it risks de stabilizing the bedrock of the structures said Ahjani Yepa a member of Utah Din Bikyah a Navajo grass roots organization. Hovenweep is in all of our stories and to threaten the integrity of these structures jeopardizes everything weve carried forward as resilient people. Hovenweep was designated as an International Dark Sky Park in 2014 by the International Dark Sky Association recognized for its striking night skies and star gazing opportunities. Southeast Utah is known for its sweeping desert landscapes and expansive night skies. The state has 11 internationally recognized Dark Sky Parks the most of any state. Business owners in Bluff said the dark skies drive tourism to Hovenweep and feared industrial light pollution as well as the sounds and smells of energy development could drive visitors away. As of Monday afternoon Finch said there were no results to share and the sale would continue until at least Tuesday. The agency says in planning documents that companies should take steps to protect the environmental and cultural landscape of the area including limiting the use of artificial light at drilling sites and protecting useable groundwater aquifers from drilling. Companies must obtain permits and go through environmental reviews before they begin construction or drilling. Some leases go years before drilling or expire before any activity occurs. Still environmentalists and Native Americans invested in the land said such documents fail to address a larger trend of leasing increasingly more land on or near sensitive tribal landscapes. Parcels near Hovenweep were offered then deferred in a March BLM lease sale and new documents for an upcoming December lease sale show more land will be up for grabs. At least we have our little foot in the door but thats as far as weve gotten she said. They argue these lands are abandoned but theyre not we use them in our prayers we visit them. You wouldnt like it if I went into your home your land and started digging. The Bureau of Land Management would benefit from more community outreach and long term planning to lease parcels on sensitive landscapes said Erika Pollard an associate director with the National Parks Conservation Association. But the new energy dominated era she said were in has made public input on these processes harder.	False	False	False	False	False
Its been repeated throughout the media Future global warming could wipe out one tenth of the U.S. economy by 2100. Its a top line finding of a major government climate report but its based on a study funded by groups affiliated with two major Democratic donors. The oft repeated claim also stemmed from a global warming projection thats come under increased scrutiny from experts including one who called it outlandish. The federal government released the second volume of the National Climate Assessment NCA Friday. The federal report issued dire warnings including from ice sheet disintegration on accelerated sea level rise leading to widespread effects on coastal development lasting thousands of years. The report also claims that global greenhouse gas emissions is expected to cause substantial net damage to the U.S. economy throughout this century including a 10 percent hit to gross domestic product GDP in one extreme scenario. RELATED Trump Touts Oil Prices Getting Lower As Millions Hit The Road For Thanksgiving However NCAs dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes from a 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors. The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund. That 2017 study published in the journal Science was funded in part by Bloomberg Philanthropies and Next Generation which were founded by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and San Francisco billionaire Tom Steyer respectively. University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. pointed out problems with the study on Twitter Saturday including the fact it was funded by groups connected with Bloomberg and Steyer. Bloomberg and Steyer were the biggest donors to Democratic aligned political action groups in the 2016 election cycle according to the Center for Responsive Politics CRP. Bloomberg who founded Bloomberg Philanthropies handed nearly 60 million to liberal SuperPACs to help put Democratic candidates in office and defeat Republicans in the 2018 election cycle according to the CRP. Steyer who co founded Next Generation gave roughly 58.7 million to liberal SuperPACs according to CRP. Bloomberg and Steyer back the Paris climate accord and Obama era policies to phase out fossil fuels. The Bloomberg Steyer funded study found future temperature rise could cost roughly 1.2 of gross domestic product per additional one degree Celsius increase on average. At the most extreme high end that could add up to 10 percent of GDP by 2100. Pielke called the use of such an extreme scenario embarrassing because its based on a future thats 15 degrees Fahrenheit warmer in other words twice what the United Nations most extreme scenario projects. But even the United Nations worst case scenario called RCP8.5 is being called into question by experts. A study published in 2017 found RCP8.5 was exceptionally unlikely because it suffered from systematic errors in fossil production outlooks. Imagine if research funded by Exxon was sole basis for claims. Given weaknesses of the work its just foolish to lean on it so much Pielke tweeted. Major media outlets however did no such examination of the NCAs reliance on such an outlandish claim as Pielke called it. CNN reported the economy could lose hundreds of billions of dollars or in the worst case scenario more than 10 of its GDP by 2100. The news outlets headline warned future warming could also kill thousands. All told the report says climate change could slash up to a tenth of gross domestic product by 2100 more than double the losses of the Great Recession a decade ago The New York Times reported of the NCA. Andrew Light a distinguished senior fellow at the World Resources Institute and reviewer of the chapter highlighting the Bloomberg Steyer funded study did not respond to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for comment. Instead Light forwarded TheDCNFs request to the U.S. Global Change Research Program USGCRP which is responsible for producing the NCA. USGCRP has yet to respond to TheDCNFs request. The NCA was put together with input from 13 federal agencies and outside scientists. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	True	False	True	True
Joyce Farinato a pastor and artist who lost her Glen Ellen Calif. home in recent wildfires stands in the ruins Monday Oct. 23 2017 and shows a mask she found in the debris one of her few surviving possessions. Farinato said she wants to follow the environmental rules on cleaning burned sites but needs to know what they are. AP PhotoEllen Knickmeyer SANTA ROSA Calif. AP Government officials outlined plans Monday for what they say will be the largest fire clean up in California history aimed at removing hazardous substances and ash from 8400 homes and other structures burned in Northern California wildfires. With hundreds of anxious homeowners listening state emergency services official Eric Lamoureux set a target of early 2018 for completing the clean up and allowing owners to start rebuilding. California has declared a public health emergency in the fire area in part because of concern for hazardous substances ranging from freon in air conditioners to asbestos in older homes. The fires that began Oct. 8 have killed at least 42 people making them the deadliest series of wildfires in state history. The size and scope of this debris removal process will be one for the record books Sen. Mike McGuire a Democrat from the wine country town of Healdsburg told fire survivors at a Santa Rosa community forum. The meeting gave residents some of the first briefings on the clean up to come. Authorities have warned residents returning to the ruins of their homes to beware of possible hazardous residues in the ashes and required them to sign forms acknowledging the danger. Many survivors at Monday's forum and in fire zones where people are returning say they are confused about what authorities will allow them to do at their blackened properties before the massive waste removal. How do you get to get your mourning started if I can't stop and put hands on the scattering of possessions left asked resident Joyce Farinato who wore gardening gloves and a mask Monday as she walked through the chunks of concrete and bent metal that were all that was left of her home in rural Sonoma County. I'd like to know what's hazardous. What are we looking for? Farinato said. In Santa Rosa authorities with the Federal Emergency Management Administration and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers joined local and state officials answering other questions from homeowners. In two of the hardest hit areas Sonoma and Napa the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will be the agency that moves first removing any hazardous materials from the thousands of sites officials said Monday. State agencies would handle the same task in five other burned counties. The EPA effort would start this week said Lamoureux of California's Office of Emergency Services. Hundreds of teams led by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers are to move in next removing ash and rubble. In Sonoma County the scene of the most destruction and deaths county officials will draft environmental standards to be followed by any homeowners who opt to handle the clean up themselves at their own expense officials said. For property owners who let the government handle the clean up taxpayers will cover any of the costs of debris removal that insurance doesn't Lamoureux said. Authorities have yet to put a price tag on the process. Homeowners shouted questions on matters ranging from their liability in the clean up to the extent that contractors would be scraping bare building sites. Laney Wall who lost her home in the Sonoma County community of Fountaingrove asked why homeowners had to go through the expense trouble and wait of the clean up at all. What legally is the justification for declaring my home site a hazardous waste site requiring this onerous process? Wall asked. Officials pointed to the public health concerns ranging from safety of residents in the burned neighborhoods to concerns for hazardous waste entering waterways and the air. Officials promised more town meetings. Homeowners said that was a good idea. I just have more questions now Danny Thom another Fountaingrove resident said after the meeting.	False	True	True	False	False
President Donald Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement has been portrayed in some press coverage as a decision driven by either his personal idiosyncrasies or the policy agenda of White House chief strategist Steve Bannon. And while theres an element of truth to that it misses the big picture. The reality is that this isnt just a story about Trump its a story about the Republican Party and the conservative movement which has adopted a rock solid widespread consensus in opposition to any serious action aimed at the US reducing carbon emissions. This has become a bedrock belief of the modern GOP. While we cant know if any other Republican president elected in 2016 would have for sure withdrawn from the Paris agreement many institutional actors within the GOP and the conservative movement from members of Congress including the Senate majority leader to think tanks to activist groups to media outlets to conservative donors including many with fossil fuel wealth strongly support this move and have in fact been urging Trump to make it. Furthermore even leading Republicans who might have supported sticking to the Paris deal it is after all non binding would have likely supported an agenda of weakening environmental regulations and taken little if any action aimed at reducing carbon emissions. The party simply does not believe climate change is a serious problem. The talking points differ Some deny humans are causing the planet to warm at all and say the very idea is a liberal hoax their number includes President Trump. More nuanced pundits and politicians acknowledge that the science is real but argue that even if it is accurate the consequences might not be so bad or that action would simply be too costly. But beyond a few notable exceptions the upshot is generally the same no matter where someone sits in the GOP that addressing climate change shouldnt be anywhere near the top of the presidents agenda. This is the consensus that the vast majority of the Republican Party from donors to politicians to intellectuals to voters has arrived at. Which makes it the crucial context for Trumps move Thursday. Though Trumps withdrawal from the Paris agreement has been received by some as a shocking move it was hardly a fringe position in the Republican Party he was being outright pressured to do it. But whether the US stayed in the Paris agreement or not it was crystal clear both before and after Thursdays announcement that the vast majority of the Republican Party supports an agenda of environmental deregulation and inaction on climate change. Take Trumps nominee to head the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt. All along it was clear that Pruitt would be a rock solid opponent of federal regulatory efforts aimed at reducing carbon emissions. As Brad Plumer wrote last year during Pruitts tenure as Oklahoma attorney general he joined or led state lawsuits to block virtually every major federal regulation around climate and air pollution that Obamas EPA has put forward and professed to believe that the science around climate change was unsettled. Anyone even remotely concerned about climate change should naturally have opposed Pruitts nomination to head the USs top environmental regulatory agency and yet the sole Republican senator who voted against Pruitts confirmation was Susan Collins of Maine. The vast majority of the partys politicians simply do not think its a problem to appoint an EPA administrator who doesnt take the climate science consensus seriously. The same is true of the GOPs grassroots In a 2016 Pew survey only 23 percent of Republican voters said they believed Earth was getting warmer because of human activity. The occasional notable Republican politician who does conclude that the scientific consensus is accurate and tries to work with Democrats on the issue gets slammed by these passionate and well organized groups and can face serious pressure from the right as happened to Lindsey Graham when he was working on a cap and trade bill in 2010 and got attacked by Fox News. So its no surprise that most in the party decide not to stick their necks out lest they run afoul of the base and risk a primary challenge. Even Mitt Romney one of the few major Republicans who openly called on Trump to stay in the Paris agreement in recent weeks dodged and obfuscated on climate change when he was actually running for president and facing electoral pressures. We dont know whats causing climate change he said in October 2011. I'm not in this race to slow the rise of the oceans or to heal the planet he joked in August 2012. He only started acknowledging the seriousness of the issue in 2015 years after his loss. The reality is that one of the USs two major political parties is institutionally committed at nearly every level to the same basic agenda of environmental deregulation and inaction on carbon emissions. Trumps withdrawal in Paris isnt an odd outlier but instead rests on that foundation.	False	False	False	True	False
Back in October 2015 Barack Obamas EPA finalized a 460 page rule titled Carbon Pollution Emission Guidelines for Existing Stationary Sources Electric Utility Generating Units aka the Clean Power Plan. This was a part of Obamas pen and phone way of ruling the country. As an aside did you ever see anyone on the left bitch about Obama using the power of the presidency to make policy and weigh in on political and cultural issues the way some on the right bitch about Trump doing it? Did you ever stop to wonder what they know that the current belly achers dont? The purpose of this rule was breathtaking. Using the anthropogenic global warming scaremongering and specious public health predictions the Clean Power Plan essentially put the US coal industry out of business. Since that time the rule has been mired in court challenges and it produced the first instance in history where the Supreme Court presumed a rule was unreasonable before a lower court ruled on the issue The Supreme Court dealt a blow to President Obamas signature climate change initiative Tuesday by halting the administrations effort to reduce pollution from coal fired power plants while a legal battle rages on. The move by the courts five conservative members was a shock to environmentalists who had hoped the justices would deny as a federal appeals court did last month a petition filed by 29 mostly Republican led states and industry leaders. Now the Environmental Protection Agency must halt enforcement of the so called Clean Power Plan until the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit decides on the merits of the GOP industry lawsuit against it. Oral arguments are set for early June. Even if the plan is upheld at the lower court it could not be implemented until the Supreme Court has had the final word. That likely would push the battle into 2017 or beyond. In September 2016 then candidate Donald Trump gave an economic policy speech in which he specifically targeted the Clean Power Plan Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump said he would repeal four key Environmental Protection Agency regulations as president leading one environmental group to call his plans a dumpster fire. During an economic policy speech in New York Trump said he would eliminate the Clean Power Plan and the Waters of the United States rule. In a fact sheet released accompanying the speech Trumps campaign said he would scale back the latest regulations on ozone pollution and eliminate the EPAs Renewable Identification Number program which is part of the Renewable Fuel Standard program. Trump said the regulations harm U.S. businesses and getting rid of them would help kick start the economy. This Obama Clinton directive will shut down most if not all coal powered electricity plans in America Trump said of the Clean Power Plan. Theyre shutting down all over the country. Remember what Hillary Clinton said? She wants to shut down the miners just like she wants to shut down the steel mills and steel workers. In late March President Trump signed an executive order directing the EPA to review the Clean Power Plan Now it is reported that tomorrow the EPA will being the process of withdrawing the Clean Power Plan. What the EPA is doing is proposing a rule to rescind the existing rule and then it will undertake another administrative rule making process to ask for public input on what a new rule should contain and finally a new rule will be drafted. Im sure Scott Pruitt would prefer to scrap this whole thing unfortunately the US Supreme Court 2007 decision Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency says that EPA regulation of carbon dioxide is actually required by the Clean Air Act and so non regulation is legally off the table unless Congress acts that was a joke. The sum total of this is to take this issue out of the courts and then give the environmental nazis a new chew toy to play with for several years. In the meantime hopefully Congress will act again that was a joke to limit the reach of the Clean Air Act and the ability of activists to use that law to wreak havoc on our economy and communities.	False	False	False	True	True
In Europe World Leaders Try To Change Trump's Mind On Climate Change It was eight against one according to German Chancellor Angela Merkel. On one side leaders of Canada Japan France Germany Italy and the United Kingdom plus two EU representatives. On the other side President Trump. And up for debate the peril of climate change and the urgency of the U.S. commitment to the Paris accord to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Merkel said that everyone at the table at the G 7 summit in Taormina Italy was urging Trump to stick with the pact according to Reuters. After that conversation Trump economic adviser Gary Cohn said the president's views are evolving and that he feels much much more knowledgeable after the conversation with world leaders. He came here to learn. He came here to get smarter Cohn said. His views are evolving which is exactly as they should be. Any decision on climate change would ultimately be based on what's best for the United States Cohn said. The Paris accord created in 2015 after lengthy negotiations calls on 196 nations to ratchet back greenhouse gas emissions. The goal is to keep the rise in global temperatures no higher than 2 degrees Celsius as compared with pre industrial levels. As NPR reported at the time the global average temperature has already increased about 1 degree Celsius. The deal includes voluntary pledges to reduce emissions. It also calls for developed countries to provide billions of dollars to help the developing world switch from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources. The accord was historic in its scope and its ambition even though its reliance on voluntary pledges made it less robust than some advocates had hoped. On the campaign trail Trump said he would cancel the Paris deal. He has previously suggested that climate change is a hoax and appointed as the head of the EPA a man who said he does not believe human activity is a primary contributor to global warming. Climate change and its impacts have been observed by scientists working in multiple fields and the overwhelming scientific consensus is that human activity is the primary cause. But since taking office Trump has not moved to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris agreement. He has rolled back a number of Obama era climate change measures which will hamper U.S. efforts to fulfill its Paris pledges. But he hasn't retracted the pledges themselves. Just this week members of his administration indicated that the White House had not yet decided what to do on the issue. Before the conversation between Trump and the other G 7 leaders Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni noted that all the other countries had confirmed total agreement to the pact while the U.S. commitment was an open question. We are sure that after an internal reflection the United States will also want to commit to it Gentiloni said according to the Associated Press. But Gentolini and other world leaders weren't just waiting for internal reflection. They added some external pressure too. French President Emmanuel Macron reportedly discussed climate change with Trump at length on Thursday at a meeting in Brussels. Leaders of the Roman Catholic Church broached the topic when Trump visited the Vatican. And then there was the chat between the G 7 leaders. Merkel called the conversation controversial. Cohn said it was robust. Still to be determined whether it was persuasive or consequential.	True	False	False	True	True
Scientists say that 2016 has been confirmed as the warmest year on record. Photo GettyEyeEm The evidence behind global climate change continues to mount and scientists keep speaking out. Now they hope the world will listen. The latest international climate report from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA confirms that 2016 was the third consecutive year of record global heat. On Thursday afternoon the American Meteorological Society published the 27th annual State of the Climate report which verifies last year surpassed 2015 as the hottest since record keeping began in 1880. Based on preliminary data NASA and NOOA had made the same assessment back in January but this weeks report is considered definitive. Were scientists and were providing objective information Jessica Blunden a climate scientist at NOAAs National Climatic Data Center in Asheville N.C. told Yahoo News. We dont go into policy but we provide the information for people who want to go further with that. According to the report the effect of long term global warming and a powerful El Nio early on pushed 2016 into record setting warmth. The global average sea level reached a new record high last year as well to 3.25 inches above the average level in 1993 which marks the beginning of the satellite altimeter record. Scientists also said that the average Arctic land surface temperature continued to warm and global ice and snow cover continued to decline. Sea ice extents in the Antarctic hit record daily and monthly lows in August and November. The State of the Climate report is based on contributions from nearly 500 scientists from more than 60 countries using tens of thousands of measurements from several independent data sets. This summary of the global climate confirms data released on Jan. 18 based on analyses from scientists at NASAs Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York. Blunden said the use of additional independent data sets distinguishes this report from what came before. The big difference in this report is we dont just look at NOAA data. There are about four different independent data sets we looked at to come to this conclusion Blunden told Yahoo News. Its not just NOAA who is agreeing with it. NASA the U.K. Met Office and the Japan Meteorological Agency are agreeing. Since the previous data was released mere days before President Trumps inauguration this peer reviewed report is the most thorough assessment of climate change officially released during the Trump era. Deke Arndt chief of the climate monitoring branch at NOAAs National Centers for Environmental Information described the report as diagnostic when asked if anyone from the White House had weighed in on itor questioned its findings. This report is a diagnostic report. It basically diagnoses what is happening in the climate system Arndt said on a conference call. Its intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that youre talking about. Concentrations of major greenhouse gases in the atmosphere also reached to new highs in 2016. For instance the global average concentration of carbon dioxide CO2 the primary driver of anthropogenic climate change in the atmosphere reached 402.9 parts per million ppm. This was the first time on record that CO2 concentration exceeded 400 ppm. The consensus of climate scientists is that the maximum safe level is 350.	True	False	False	True	False
If the world wants to limit climate change water scarcity and pollution then we all need to embrace flexitarian diets say scientists. This means eating mainly plant based foods and is one of three key steps towards a sustainable future for all in 2050 they say. Food waste will need to be halved and farming practices will also have to improve according to the study. Without action the impacts of the food system could increase by up to 90. Fast on the heels of the landmark report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC comes this new study on how food production and consumption impact major threats to the planet. The authors say that the food system has a number of significant environmental impacts including being a major driver of climate change depleting freshwater and pollution through excessive use of nitrogen and phosphorous. The study says that thanks to the population and income growth expected between 2010 and 2050 these impacts could grow between 50 90. This could push our world beyond its planetary boundaries which the authors say represent a safe operating space for humanity on a stable Earth system. However the study finds that no single solution will avert the dangers so a combined approach is needed. So when it comes to climate change the authors looked at what they called a flexitarian diet. We can eat a range of healthy diets but what they all have in common according to the latest scientific evidence is that they are all relatively plant based said lead author Dr Marco Springmann from the University of Oxford. You can go from a diet that has small amounts of animal products some might call it a Mediterranean based diet we call it a flexitarian diet over to a pescatarian vegetarian or vegan diet we tried to stay with the most conservative one of these which in our view is the flexitarian one but even this has only one serving of red meat per week. If the world moved to this type of diet the study found that greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture would be reduced by more than half. But as well as altering diets the research says that farming practices need to change significantly. This involves boosting yields from existing cropland improving water management and restricting and recycling fertiliser use. We looked at improving agricultural yields in particular of more health sensitive crops like fruit vegetables and legumes said Dr Springmann. In the past there has been lots of invest in the stable grains like maize and corn but now we really need to move it to the crops we need more of. We also looked at increasing the efficiency of water use and we looked at better monitoring and recycling of fertiliser lots of it is lost and it runs off into rivers and causes dead zones in the oceans. In addition the study found that halving the amount of food lost to waste would reduce the environmental impacts of agriculture by 16. Tackling food loss and waste will require measures across the entire food chain from storage and transport over food packaging and labelling to changes in legislation and business behaviour that promote zero waste supply chains said Fabrice de Clerck director of science at EAT who funded the study. The key element is that these three solutions must be implemented together. Feeding a world population of 10 billion people is possible yet only if we change the way we eat and the way we produce food said Johan Rockstrm director designate of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research who is one of the authors of the study. All measures combined can result in keeping healthy both planet and people. The study has been published in the journal Nature.	True	False	False	True	False
The White House has declined to say whether Donald Trump believes human activity contributes to climate change as the president pulled America out of the Paris agreement. Administration officials were also unable to offer revised US carbon emission targets or say what changes to the global landmark accord would persuade Trump to re enter it. But they did offer assurance that America will abide by the lengthy exit process outlined in the deal waiting three and a half years to formally withdraw. Trump announced on Thursday the US would join Nicaragua and Syria as the only countries to shun the Paris agreement characterising it as a reassertion of Americas sovereignty and saying he was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh not Paris. There was a chorus of condemnation from world leaders former president Barack Obama and Trumps defeated election opponent Hillary Clinton who branded it a historic mistake. Shortly after Trump spoke in the Rose Garden at the White House to applause from supporters two senior administration officials briefed reporters in the west wing. The officials who did not wish to be named did nothing to alter perceptions of the US president as a climate change denier when asked whether he believed human activity was a contributory factor. One official replied So I think the fact that the president in his speech today said he wants to come back and renegotiate a better deal for the United States and for the world I think speaks for itself. The journalist shot back So is that a yes? Its a yes or no question. The official said Again I think that speaks for itself. The journalist pressed It doesnt speak for itself so is that a yes? Does he believe human activity contributes to climate change? The official said I have not talked to the president about his personal views on whether I was not with the president on his trip. I did not talk to the president about his personal views on what is contributing to climate change. The official insisted his own views were irrelevant while a White House staff member interjected Can we stay on topic please? The official echoed Can we stay on topic please? implying that Trumps views on the causes of climate change were irrelevant to the Paris decision. On 27 March the same official proved evasive on Trumps views when questioned by the Guardian. This week Sean Spicer the White House press secretary also said he had not asked the presidents opinion on the matter. Scott Pruitt the head of the Environmental Protection Agency has said he would not agree that carbon from human activity is the primary cause of global warming while in 2014 Trump referred to it as a hoax. On Thursday in a speech that kept a campaign pledge and echoed the fiery America first nationalism of his inaugural address Trump said As of today the United States will cease all implementation of the non binding Paris accord. During Obamas tenure the US had agreed under the accord to reduce emissions by more than a quarter below 2005 levels by 2025. The administration officials declined to specify new targets or give even a rough estimate of Americas intended nationally determined contribution to limiting greenhouse gas emissions. But they pointed to Americas existing record. I think leading the world is pretty good right? one said. I think that speaks for itself. The Paris accord came into effect on 4 November 2016. It makes provision for parties to withdraw but notice can be given only three years after it kicks in. Withdrawal would take effect a year after that meaning November 2020 a date that coincides with the next US presidential election raising the prospect that the issue remains alive during the campaign. First of all the whole withdrawal process will be consistent with the Paris agreement an official said. So the Paris agreement has to be in force for three years before you can actually submit a notice formally for withdrawal which takes at least a year. During this period the United States will not acknowledge or do anything to implement the current pledge put down by President Obama. Now whats the negotiating process? I think thats going to be determined by the president as we move forward. The leaders of France Germany and Italy joined to express regret at Trumps decision and insisted the agreement cannot be renegotiated. One of the administration officials responded If you look at the Europeans if you look at other major economies or allies or partners they have a strong interest in finding common ground with the United States and again we dont want to get out ahead of ourselves here on what may be discussed or not. There are a lot of different issues related to the international climate agenda that may not necessarily fall into the Paris bucket per se. He added The president is very sincere when he says he wants a better deal he wants to negotiate potentially bringing us back in Paris depending on what that looks like ... I think its a little bit more nuanced than stay in or not. Officials at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology MIT challenged a set of talking points issued to support Trumps decision as misleading. A statement from MIT said The relevant MIT researchers believe that the Paris agreement is an unprecedented and vital effort by nearly 200 countries to respond to the urgent threat of global climate change.	True	True	False	True	False
A top Oregon Senate Democrat on Tuesday flinched in the face of a Republican walkout acknowledging that there are not enough votes to pass a major bill to address climate change. House Bill 2020 does not have the votes on the Senate floor said Senate President Peter Courtney Tuesday morning in an admission of defeat. That will not change. The central provision of House Bill 2020 is to institute a cap and trade mechanism for carbon dioxide across the state a mechanism to cut emissions 45 percent below 1990 levels by 2035 and 80 percent by 2050. Its a long thorough piece of legislation that mandates carbon emission reductions across the states economy while accounting for job quality standards and economic equity. And it would make Oregon the second state after New York with a legally binding economy wide greenhouse gas reduction target. Theres been incredible work going into that bill Courtney said. But according to Rick Osborn communications director for the Oregon Senate Majority office Democrats werent able to muster the votes for HB 2020 within their own caucus. Oregon Republicans argued that the bill would harm their rural constituents and energy intensive industries like cement production. They also said they were being bullied by Senate Democrats. And so 11 of them fled the state capitol on Thursday apparently to an undisclosed location in Idaho to deny quorum for a vote on the bill. Yet the walkout now appears to have been a highly politicized charade since Democrats may not have had the votes to begin with. My understanding is that it was known last week before the Republicans walked out Osborn told Vox. Courtneys admission is not rewarding Senate Republicans for bad behavior. Democratic Gov. Kate Brown nonetheless last week sent state police to find the lawmakers and instituted a 500 per day fine per person for each day they werent present at a legislative session. The Republicans are not standing against climate change theyre standing against democracy she said during a press conference Tuesday. Republicans had used the moment as an opportunity to appear defiant with one Republican state senator Brian Boquist even threatening police. Lawmakers closed down the capitol on Saturday after receiving credible threats from militia groups in favor of the Republican walkout. On Tuesday some of the Republicans in hiding were not sure what to make of Courtneys statement about the votes. And they werent committing to returning to work either according to Oregon Public Broadcastings Lauren Dake Even if Courtney wants to throw in the towel it may not be easy to kill the climate change bill to bring Republicans back to Salem as the Oregonian explained Although Courtney wields significant power in the Senate he cannot easily kill the climate bill in order to secure Republicans return. One possible first step could be for the Senate to vote to send the bill back to a committee but such a vote could not happen without a quorum meaning at least two Republicans would have to return to the Capitol. Another option that would also require a quorum could be a motion to postpone the bill indefinitely which under Senate rules would mean the bill could not be considered during this legislative session. If and when the bill dies it would be a painful defeat for Democrats who won legislative supermajorities in both chambers of the Oregon legislature in the last election. Oregon has also been working on carbon pricing policies since 1997. The concession from Democrats may have been motivated by a time constraint. The Oregon state legislative session ends on June 30 and more than 100 bills including funding for several state agencies are at risk of being scrapped. Democrats have conceded to Republican walkouts before yielding on major gun control and vaccine legislation. This latest surrender likely means that state Republicans despite being in the minority will continue to hold a veto over Democrats agenda.	True	True	False	True	False
Greta Thunberg tried really hard to keep her zero emissions promise but it has collapsed like all hypocritical left wing plans because it was just too difficult. From the Hill Greta Thunbergs plan for carbon free travel was contradicted when her sailboat captain flew across the Atlantic Ocean to pick her up. Thunberg 16 has been on a tour of North America to raise awareness for climate change. As part of her pledge to cut back carbon dioxide emissions to save the planet Thunberg vowed not to travel by air to limit her carbon footprint while she tours. The plan for zero emissions travel was subverted when Thunbergs yacht captain Nikki Henderson 26 flew to the United States from England burning roughly two or three tons of carbon CO2 in the process. Thunberg and her father who has traveled North America throughout his daughters activist tour could have flown aboard the same flight and burned just as much CO2. Ironically she failed because of left wing communist protesters in Chile Henderson was forced to make the flight last second because protests in Chile caused the U.N.s Cop25 climate summit to be moved to Madrid Spain. Thunberg was set to speak at the conference but needed to leave the U.S. sooner than expected. I mean you really think the entire world is going to come to a screeching halt for carbon emissions when you cant even organize a publicity stunt with your own standards? No wonder celebs opt to be complete and utter hypocrites instead of actually trying to get carbon neutral. And we all kinda see what is happening here if they cant do it now then why would we believe that they would be carbon free after they force all of us to live in backwards slums?	False	True	False	True	False
The Trump administration pointed to key offshore drilling safety regulations adopted in the wake of the catastrophic 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill in its sweeping proposal to open up nearly all U.S.waters to oil and gas development only to turn around in the months since and work toroll back those very safeguards. The controversial drilling plan released in January as part of President Donald Trumps energy dominance agenda would make available for oil and gas leasing roughly 90 percent of the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf including large swaths of the Arctic Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. The Interior Department led by Secretary Ryan Zinke noted in the lengthy proposal that while offshore oil and gas production will never be totally risk free the agency has made and is continuing to make substantial reforms to improve the safety and reduce the possible adverse environmental impacts of those activities. Elizabeth Johnson Klein the Interior Departments associate deputy secretary under Obama said the language first appeared in a draft of the current program released in January 2015. She said it references the Well Control Rule and the Production Safety Systems Rule two regulations that were under development back in early 2015 and are now on Trumps chopping block. The language also points to broader reform efforts that occurred after the Gulf spill including thedivision of the Minerals Management Service the scandal plagued agency faced with the conflicting tasks of issuing leases and policing offshore drilling operations into three new agencies. Days before the Trump administration unveiled its plans for a massive expansion of offshore drilling it moved to weaken the Production Safety Systems Rule a set of regulations pertaining to maintenance of offshore platforms. At the time the Interior Departments Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement one of the agencies born out of the reorganization of the Minerals Management Service estimated that the move would save companies some 288 million over 10 years. The changes finalized last month and slated to take effect on Dec. 27 loosen notification and certification rules for fossil fuel companies and toss out a requirement that offshore equipment be designed to withstand the most extreme weather and pressure conditions. In May the Trump administration took aim at the Well Control Rule a safety monitoring regulation meant to prevent the kind of incident that killed 11 workers and resulted in some 200 million gallons of crude oil leaking into the Gulf of Mexico. Finalized in 2016 six years after the Deepwater Horizon disaster the rule requires additional inspection and maintenance of blowout preventers a device designed to automatically seal a well and stop an uncontrolled release of oil and gas. The Interior Departmentsproposed overhaulwould loosen the inspection and oversight requirements for this equipment. Like the rollback of the Production Safety Systems Rule this effort is all about helping industry. In fact many of the proposed changes to the Well Control Rule were requested by oil companies as Eric Lipton of The New York Times reported in March. In comments submitted to the agency in August 10 state attorneys general argued that weakening the rule at the same time as the Trump administration is looking to radically expand offshore drilling is analogous to taping over the mirrors and unbuckling ones seat belt just before getting on the highway. Donald Boesch a professor of marine science at the University of Maryland who served on the bipartisan commission that investigated the causes of the Deepwater Horizon blowout said easing the safety rules is both premature and ill considered. He also expressed concern about merging the two agencies but said the administration has in effect already done that by putting the safety bureau in the hands of Angelle a big proponent of offshore fossil fuel development. In April 2017 Trump signed an executive order aimed at opening up protected areas of the Arctic and Atlantic oceans to oil and gas leasing. It instructed the Interior Department to review the current five year program and write new rules for offshore oil and gas drilling under the guise of an America First Offshore Energy Strategy. If approved the leasing plan would go into effect from 2019 to 2024 and replace the current program which is set to run through 2022 and was approved following an extensive multiyear review. The offshore drilling announcement drew immediate outrage from both Democrats and Republicans who expressed concern about possible environmental damage and negative effects on tourism. Days after the proposals release Zinke traveled to Florida and announced that on the recommendation of Gov. Rick Scott a staunch Trump supporter he was removing the states coastal waters from consideration. Zinke walked backFloridas exemption after other states demanded that they receive the same pass. He has since hinted to officials from at least six states that the waters off their coasts will not be included in the final plan Reuters reported this week.	True	False	False	True	False
Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro has ruled out accepting a G7 offer of aid to fight fires in the Amazon rainforest unless he gets an apology from his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron. Mr Bolsonaro said the French leader should apologise for insulting him personally by calling him a liar. Mr Macron had accused him of lying about fighting climate change. Aid worth 22m 18m was announced by Mr Macron at a summit in France of the seven leading industrial powers. Satellite data show a record number of fires burning in Brazil most of them in the Amazon region. Earlier Brazilian ministers said the G7 money was not needed and they accused foreign powers of wanting control of the Amazon. Last week Mr Macron said Mr Bolsonaro had lied to him at a G20 summit in Osaka Japan in June by failing to respect his climate commitments and by failing to pursue biodiversity. Mr Macron said France would not ratify a huge trade deal with South American nations unless Brazil did more to fight fires in the Amazon. On Tuesday Mr Bolsonaro told reporters in the capital Brasilia Mr Macron must withdraw the insults that he made to my person. Firstly he called me a liar. He also accused Mr Macron of questioning Brazilian sovereignty over the Amazon region Brazilian news website G1 reports. To talk or to accept anything from France whether it be with the best possible intentions he Mr Macron will have to withdraw those words and then we can talk he said. The two presidents hold sharply different political views with Mr Bolsonaro hailing from the far right in Brazil and Mr Macron elected in a run off against the far right in France. In another development Mr Bolsonaro responded to a joke on Facebook mocking the age of Mr Macron's wife Brigitte who at 65 is 25 years his senior. He wrote Do not humiliate the guy ha ha. Asked about Mr Bolsonaro's remarks Mr Macron said they were extraordinarily rude and sad. Adding to the row over the aid offer Mr Bolsonaro's chief of staff Onyx Lorenzoni mocked the fire that ravaged Notre Dame cathedral in Paris in April. Macron cannot even avoid a predictable fire in a church that is part of the world's heritage and he wants to give us lessons for our country? he said quoted by the Globo news website. As the largest rainforest in the world the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming. It spans a number of countries but the majority of it falls within Brazil. Wildfires often occur in the dry season in Brazil but satellite data published by Brazil's space agency show an increase of 80 this year. BBC analysis has also found that the record number of fires being recorded coincides with a sharp drop in fines being handed out for environmental violations. Mr Bolsonaro has previously said his government lacks the resources to fight the record number of fires in the Amazon region but his government is also being accused of slashing funding for environmental protection. The funding for Brazil's environment agency has gone down by 95 this year Yadvinder Malhi professor of Ecosystem Science at the University of Oxford told the BBC's Today programme. On Friday President Bolsonaro authorised the military to help tackle the blazes. Brazil says 44000 soldiers have been deployed to combat the fires and environmental crimes in the Amazon and military operations are under way in seven states as the result of requests for assistance from local governments. Jorgimar Alberto from Roraima one of the states most affected by the fires has seen the burning of most of the land surrounding his wooden house. It's a risky situation we have lots of crops here and everything is burning such as the cashew trees he told the BBC. I even had to keep the animals inside so that they don't burn as well. Every year it is the same these fires are disturbing the region a lot. Environmental officials helped him extinguish the fires last week only for them to reignite he said. His wife could not stand staying in the house with the smell of burning and the threat getting ever closer so she left. Lumberyard owner Edson Oliveira from southern Amazonas said he did not believe the media coverage about the Amazon. In my opinion the parts that are burning are the same that burn every year he told the BBC. Asked what he would like politicians to do for the Amazon he said that he would like economic alternatives for people here to find a way we can make use of the natural wealth we have here. It's no use pointing the finger at what's wrong without bringing alternatives to people he said. The 22m was announced on Monday as the leaders of the G7 Canada France Germany Italy Japan the UK and the US met in Biarritz France. Mr Macron said the funds would be made available immediately primarily to pay for more firefighting planes and that France would also offer concrete support with military in the region. Greenpeace France described the G7's response to the crisis as inadequate given the urgency and magnitude of this environmental disaster. As international concern over the fires spread Hollywood actor Leonardo DiCaprio pledged 5m towards helping the rainforest. He has long maintained that European countries are trying to gain access to Brazil's natural resources. He alleges that European interest in the welfare of the Amazon is a thin guise for attempts to gain a foothold in the region. Asked by international journalists about environmental protection of the Amazon at a press briefing on 6 July he said Brazil is like a virgin that every pervert from the outside lusts for.	False	True	False	True	True
Leading climate scientists have warned that geoengineering research could be hijacked by climate change deniers as an excuse not to reduce CO2 emissions citing the US administration under Donald Trump as a major threat to their work. David Keith a solar geoengineering GE expert at Harvard University has said there is a real danger that his work could be exploited by those who oppose action on emissions at the same time as he defended himself and colleagues from the claims GE strengthens the argument for abandoning the targets set by the Paris climate agreement. One of the main concerns I and everyone involved in this have is that Trump might tweet geoengineering solves everything we dont have to bother about emissions. That would break the slow moving agreement among many environmental groups that sound research in this field makes sense Keith said on the sidelines of the Climate Engineering Conference CEC in Berlin. Indeed utterances from people in or close to the Trump administration most notably GE proponent secretary of state Rex Tillerson who has referred to climate change as just an engineering problem make it clear they either tacitly or directly support the idea of climate engineering. Earlier this year Keith a professor of applied physics at Harvard announced plans to conduct an outdoor trial into stratospheric aerosol injection involving launching a high altitude balloon that will spray a small quantity of reflective particles into the stratosphere. Keith believes the experiment may help to measure the feasibility and risks involved in GE an umbrella term for a range of techniques to deliberately adjust the climate in an effort to mitigate global warming. They include reflecting sunlight from space adding huge quantities of lime or iron to the oceans pumping deep cold nutrient rich waters to the surface of oceans and irrigating vast swaths of desert to grow trees. Supporters of research into geoengineering argue that its techniques roughly speaking divided into carbon dioxide removal CDR or negative emission technologies which removes greenhouse gases and solar radiation management SRM or solar geoengineering which reduces the amount of solar energy warming the planet could help to lessen some of the consequences of climate change. However the common consensus is that the techniques should be used in addition to reductions in CO2 emissions. This weeks conference drew attention to the huge risks involved. All the techniques being proposed have potentially severe environmental impacts said Silvia Ribeiro of the ETC Group leading campaign monitors of new technologies and their possible impact on the worlds poorest. They also ignore the question as to why theres not enough political will to have done more to tackle climate change until now and they in turn serve to justify the inaction she added. Concerns focus on techniques such as stratospheric aerosol injection which some experts say has the potential to reduce the amount of rain from Asian and African monsoons and could have a devastating impact on the food supply of billions of people. Aerosol injection also has the potential to reduce the ozone layer and heighten the risk of exposure to ultraviolet radiation. Other possible side effects of GE may be an increase in ocean acidification a change in weather patterns a rapid rise in temperatures and a huge uptake in the use of agricultural land all of which could prompt mass migration of millions of climate change refugees. But scientists such as Keith and Mark Lawrence scientific director of the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies IASS in Potsdam argue that with the Paris agreement goals to limit temperature rise to two degrees or less almost impossible to achieve the world has little choice than to thoroughly explore technical intervention and the potential it has to avoid global disaster. It will be very difficult to achieve the Paris agreement calls without some form of climate engineering Lawrence said. Its not impossible but its hard to imagine we would make the major changes in our infrastructure and lifestyles in the time necessary. Keith also dismissed the view that climate engineers like himself were on a mission to prove that climate engineering worked at all costs or else see the importance of decades of their lifes work evaporate. At the best climate engineering is a supplement and it could be that we shouldnt do it he insisted. Our work is to inform better choices and it would actually be very useful to know for sure it didnt work. Right now there are heads of state and others in leadership who are explicitly assuming it could work that its there if we need it. But lets say we found something deep in the climate models which suggested we were overoptimistic about solar geoengineering then I would say abandon it. That would be great. Id love to publish that.	False	False	False	True	False
Since thenthat figure has risen to 400 scientific papers. Can you imagine the misery and consternation and horror this is going to cause in the corrupt rancid rent seeking world of the Climate Industrial Complex? I can. It will look something like this. Just to be clear so the greenies cant bleat about being misrepresented here is what these various papers say Modern temperatures sea levels and extreme weather events are neither unusual nor unprecedented. Many regions of the Earth are cooler now than they have been for most of the last 10000 years. Natural factors such as the Sun 106 papers multi decadal oceanic atmospheric oscillations such as the NAO AMOPDO ENSO 37 papers decadal scale cloud cover variations and internal variability in general have exerted a significant influence on weather and climate changes during both the past and present. Detecting a clear anthropogenic forcing signal amidst the noise of unforced natural variability may therefore be difficult. And current emissions mitigation policies especially related to the advocacy for renewables are often costly ineffective and perhaps even harmful to the environment. On the other hand elevated CO2 and a warmer climate provide unheralded benefits to the biosphere i.e. a greener planet and enhanced crop yields. In other words nobody is denying that climate changes nobody is denying that the planet has warmed by 0.8 degrees C in the last 150 yearswhile only a handfuldeny that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases has the power to influence temperatures. What they are saying in their different ways is that global warming as in the big scare story that the planet is heating up at a catastrophic unprecedented rate because of man made CO2 emissions is bunk or that the methods being used to combat the problem are bunk. Here courtesy of Kenneth Richard who has waded through them all are some examples of what they say. Greenhouse Effect Not the Main Driver of Climate Together with these 400 new papers that makes 900 science papers in the last two years casting doubt on global warming.	False	False	False	True	False
Reuters Rhode Island on Monday sued several major oil companies including Exxon Mobil Corp and BP plc accusing them of contributing to climate change that is damaging infrastructure and coastal communities in the state. The lawsuit announced by Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Kilmartin was the first by a state seeking to hold oil companies responsible for costs associated with climate change and followed similar cases by several local governments nationally. The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products. For a very long time there has been this perception that Big Oil was too big to take on but here we are the smallest state taking on some of the biggest corporate polluters in the world Kilmartin said in a statement. The lawsuit filed in Providence County Superior Court named as defendants Exxon BP Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Chevron Corp among other companies. Shell in a statement said lawsuits that masquerade as climate action and impede the collaboration needed for meaningful change were not the answer to climate change. The other companies did not respond to requests for comment. The lawsuit by the Democratic attorney general follows similar cases by U.S. cities and local governments arguing the production of fossil fuels had led to rising tides that damaged shorelines roads and other properties requiring remediation. The lawsuit contended that the companies sought to refute scientific findings regarding how greenhouse gas pollution was causing climate change and failed to prevent the harm that would result from consumers using fossil fuel products. The lawsuit said that companies also violated the states Environmental Rights Act by polluting and destroying natural resources in Rhode Island. Kilmartin is seeking to force the companies to pay for damages associated with climate change citing the costs taxpayers were incurring to repair roads and bridges and rebuild coastal structures. The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages as well as orders requiring the companies to pay abatement costs and to disgorge profits.	True	True	False	True	True
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his climate change minister Catherine McKenna are both disappointed over President Donald Trumps decision to break with the Paris climate accord. Trudeau and Trump exchanged words over the phone on Thursday night when the prime minister expressed his disappointment with the presidents decision according to a news release from the Prime Ministers Office. Through crestfallen Trudeau reiterated to the president Canadas continued commitment to working internationally to address climate change. This is about an ambitious and unshakable desire to leave a cleaner healthier and more sustainable planet for our kids and for generations to come. Despite the lofty objectives when Trudeau signed the Paris accord he was widely criticized in Canada by environmentalists for selling out to an agreement that they said was far too lenient on greenhouse gas producers. Nonetheless Liberal Environment and Climate Change Minister Catherine McKenna also found Trumps resolve to extricate the U.S. from the accord deeply disappointing and even suggested that the president will be missing out from the inevitable increase in green energy jobs that climate change proponents believe will soon be mushrooming around the world. The clean growth economy is where the world is going and Canada is going to be part of it McKenna said Thursday on Parliament Hill. Canada wants to create good jobs and wants to grow our economy and create opportunities for business. We want to be there we want to be providing solutions for the world. We know where were going. However the U.S. move might well affect Trudeaus plans to implement a national carbon tax and his overall environmental agenda that many critics say will make the Canadian economy less competitive than its American counterpart. With the North American Free Trade Agreement on the cusp of renegotiation environmental policy could well become integral to reaching a new agreement.	True	False	False	True	True
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd our email newsletter. WASHINGTON The Environmental Protection Agency plans to change the way it calculates the health risks of air pollution a shift that would make it easier to roll back a key climate change rule because it would result in far fewer predicted deaths from pollution according to five people with knowledge of the agencys plans. The E.P.A. had originally forecast that eliminating the Obama era rule the Clean Power Plan and replacing it with a new measure would have resulted in an additional 1400 premature deaths per year. The new analytical model would significantly reduce that number and would most likely be used by the Trump administration to defend further rollbacks of air pollution rules if it is formally adopted. The proposed shift is the latest example of the Trump administration downgrading the estimates of environmental harm from pollution in regulations. In this case the proposed methodology would assume there is little or no health benefit to making the air any cleaner than what the law requires. Many experts said that approach was not scientifically sound and that in the real world there are no safe levels of the fine particulate pollution associated with the burning of fossil fuels. Fine particulate matter the tiny deadly particles that can penetrate deep into the lungs and enter the bloodstream is linked to heart attacks strokes and respiratory disease.	False	False	False	True	False
You all know that oftentimes the first folks that get flooded out are the poorest communities. Theyre often communities of color. Theyre the ones who can least afford to deal with the climate crisis he said during the CNN town hall. We know that this climate crisis is going to affect all Americans and all folks around the world but we also know that its going to hit some people particularly hard people that are the first people to get affected he said. Castro said that after he announced his campaign he first went to San Juan Puerto Rico to make sure that they could recover from Hurricane Maria. I think about poor communities along the east coast he said. Frankly I connect the dot to places like Flint Michigan and I know that too oftentimes its people who are poor communities of color who take the brunt of storms that are getting more frequent and powerful. He said his climate plan calls for new civil rights legislation to address environmental injustice including making sure people could file lawsuits against polluters. We need to invest in these communities and their ability to withstand storms and other natural disasters and their ability to have something as simple as clean water or breathe clean air he said. He said as former Housing and Urban Development secretary in the Obama administration he found out that 70 percent of HUD funded public or subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site. Thats the environmentalinjustice and racism that were dealing with and my plan would equip Americans with the tools tofight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what isright now a tremendous injustice he said. He said to pay for his plan he would create a carbon pollution fee on corporations who are industrial scale polluters.	True	True	False	True	False
The generation that has grown up with the constant drumbeat of manmade climate change is now shaping public policy including some young conservatives who have launched a nationwide campaign in support of a carbon tax. The Thomson Reuters Foundation reported on the campaign which runs counter to the stance of the Republican Party and President Donald Trump that the issue is more about globalization than saving the planet Drawn from Republican groups on more than two dozen university campuses the Young Conservatives for Carbon Dividends called for laws to tax oil natural gas and coal producers of planet warming greenhouse gases. The taxation plan would make fossil fuels more costly while the resulting revenues would go to taxpayers. We claim to be the party that cares about the future that our children will inherit and we need climate policy that reflects that said Kiera OBrien 21 a senior at Harvard University who co founded the group. We are offering up what we see as the common sense solution and the way forward for the party OBrien said in the Reuters article. The article pointed out that Trump has rejected the climate doomsday scenario and has instead acted to help the U.S. energy sector by slashing regulations and withdrawing the U.S. from the Paris Climate Accord both policies aimed at helping American workers and the economy. The college Republicans behind the carbon tax campaign said the Party should have ahead of the 2020 election a climate change plan in place. Their plan includes an initial 40 a ton tax on carbon dioxide a greenhouse gas at mines wells and ports where products are produced. That tax rate would increase over time according to Reuters. OBrien said the plan includes a family of four receiving 2000 a year from the carbon tax revenues to help with higher energy costs. The plan harnesses the power of the free market to solve climate change through innovation OBrien said. Our plan would provide incentives for companies and individuals to lower emissions in ways they think are best. The campaign will connect young conservatives with Republican lawmakers around the country to talk about climate policy. At least one older Republican backs the idea. The key here is the dividend back to the people former Sen. Trent Lott R MS who supports the young group told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. Its not sustainable for Republicans through the leadership to say We just dont want to talk about this' Lott said.	False	False	False	False	False
Shell is preparing to set strict carbon emissions targets in 2019 amid intense pressure from activist shareholders who believe energy companies should be held accountable for aspects of global warming. The company also plans on linking such targets to the pay of senior executives subject to a shareholder vote in 2020. Shell is still in talks with investors about the percentage to be targets but the companys top employees salaries could be affected The Financial Times reported Sunday. We will be systematically driving down our carbon footprint over time chief executive Ben van Beurden told reporters Sunday. We all know the benefits of energy but there are associated effects that we have to manage. The pledge is a significant change in position for van Beurden who had previously opposed such proposals citing concerns about potential lawsuits. His concerns about potential waves of lawsuits are not unfounded. Environmentalists have convinced several American cities to sue Exxon Chevron and other energy companies to force them to pay for supposedly making disasters worse. Judges have already dismissed several lawsuits but the fear of future litigation is not lost on Shell and others. Shell now aims to curb emissions by around 20 percent over the next 15 years and the company will hammer out specific targets starting in 2020. The latest move was backed by Climate Action 100 a group of nearly 300 international investors carrying roughly 32 trillion in assets. The company has also pledged to review its connections to industry lobbying groups that oppose the Paris agreement a non binding deal crafted in 2015 with the goal of dramatically reducing global carbon emissions over the next 15 years. Activist shareholders have continually pushed energy companies to make bold moves showing their adherence to cutting emissions. Some analyst groups worry activist shareholders use a largely unregulated industry to hoodwink U.S. companies into accepting proposals designed to tackle climate change that carry little long term benefits.RELATEDA Federal Judge Torches Two Lawsuits Trying To Blame Oil Companies For Climate Change So called proxy advisory firms craft disclosure requirements that force companies to show they are taking efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions. The process especially disadvantages small companies in favor of larger companies that have the resources to comply with investor dictates the American Council for Capital Formation noted in May. Proxy advisory firms provide analysis and consulting services to issuers and companies about how annual and special proxies should be voted. The lack of transparency and competition in the proxy advisory firm industry gives a small number of businesses significant influence over how corporations deal with environmental issues. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	False	False	True	True
The Environmental Protection Agency is expected to roll back more regulations on coal fired power plants Thursday. Its a striking move for two big reasons No new coal plants are being built in the US and the EPA itself along with 12 other federal agencies recently put out a sweeping report detailing the need to reduce emissions from fossil fuels because of the grave threat of climate change. Axios reported this week that on Thursday afternoon the agency will announce its intent to loosen Obama era restrictions on how much carbon dioxide new coal power plants can emit. Known as the New Source Performance Standards a provision under the Clean Air Act the rule established in 2015 said coal plants couldnt emit more than 1400 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt hour. This would have likely required new coal plants to install carbon capture technologies to limit some of their emissions. But the coal industry argued in court that these technologies are too expensive and immature to deploy at scale so the new standard is too difficult to meet. The lawsuit against the New Source Performance Standard was suspended once the EPA announced last year that it was looking to revise the rule. According to the New York Times the EPA wants to relax the limit to 1900 pounds of CO2 per MWh. These weaker standards come after an EPA proposal in August to replace another Obama regulation the Clean Power Plan which targets existing power plants. The replacement the Affordable Clean Energy rule would lead to 1400 additional premature deaths each year by 2030 according to EPAs own calculations. Weakening pollution rules for existing and new coal fired power plants is part of the Trump Administrations strategy to resurrect the decrepit US coal industry which has been shrinking and hemorrhaging jobs for decades. But its not regulations that are hurting the US coal industry its competition. Natural gas and renewables are increasingly cheaper than coal. With energy demand projected to stay level that means its coal thats going to yield. However the Trumps policies stand to slow the transition toward cleaner sources of energy at a time when scientists are warning that the world may have as little as 12 years to act to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius since the industrial revolution. Even as nations are gathering in Poland this week to discuss how to implement the Paris climate agreement the US delegation plans to host a panel touting the virtues of fossil fuels the biggest sources of greenhouse gas emissions that drive climate change. The rollbacks an international signal that were not taking carbon capture and sequestration and reducing impacts from coal seriously said Jay Duffy an associate attorney at the Clean Air Task Force. As weve pointed out over and over again the coal industry in the United States has been floundering for years and theres little Trump can do to stop it. In 2018 alone 20 coal fired power plants have closed or are scheduled to shut down. Overall coal power generation capacity has fallen by one third since 2010. And coal consumption is at its lowest level since 1979. Meanwhile coal mining jobs have cratered from a high of more than 800000 in the 1920s to roughly 76000 today. The EPAs latest proposal only affects new coal power plants. The last new coal plant to come online in the US was the 600 megawatt John W. Turk Jr. Power Plant in Arkansas back in 2012. Its actually one of the most high tech most efficient coal power plants in the country. But with a 1.8 billion price tag it was the most expensive project in Arkansas history. Duffy pointed out that the Turk plant emits about 1725 pounds of CO2 per megawatt hour so its already beating the EPAs proposed benchmarks. Its likely that with current technology any hypothetical new coal power plant would have to do almost nothing to cut its greenhouse gas emissions rendering the new regulation meaningless. Its nothing burger he said. Its a no standard standard. Yet coal plants are closing everywhere and no new ones are even on the drawing board. In fact environmental groups cant even sue to block the proposal at this point since there is no plant in the works that could potentially violate the Obama era greenhouse gas limits. No harm no foul. However environmental groups are ready to litigate if the proposal becomes finalized. Where this proposal could make a difference is in extending the lives of existing plants Duffy explained. Theres a quirk in EPA regulations that says that if you modify an existing coal plant enough it can be considered as a new plant. So in theory an aging power plant could get some upgrades that would extend its operating life but would also allow it to be held to the weaker greenhouse gas limit. Taken in tandem with all of the other Trump proposals to boost coal relaxed rules on stream protection coal ash and mercury as well as curbing incentives for clean energy it adds up to a prolonging of the steady demise of coal power in the United States. Correction An earlier version of this story said that environmental groups could not sue to block the EPAs latest New Source Performance Standard rule. Groups can sue once the proposal is finalized as a rule. However they cant sue while the rule is in the proposal stage and there are no power plants seeking to implement the proposal.	False	False	False	True	True
It was clear Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke felt at home Tuesday addressing representatives of the industry that was a top donor to his congressional campaigns. Its the same industrythat the Trump administration has worked so hard to prop up over the last two years and that Zinke now regulates as chief steward of Americas natural resources. I see a lot of familiar faces he told the National Petroleum Council during its meeting in Washington D.C. before launching into a series of go to talking points about the importance of producing domestic energy namely fossil fuels and downplaying the dire conclusions of a recent federal climate report. We want to embrace better stewardship. We want to embrace reliability. In order to get there we have to understand the technology. And in order to understand it quite frankly we have to work with you he said. Ive been criticized for saying we want to work with you. Ill take the criticism. Zinke was referring to controversial comments he made in September during a keynote speech at the Louisiana Oil and Gas Associations meeting in Lafayette Louisiana. Our government should work for you he told the oil and gas trade group according to a post by the association. As head of the Interior Department Zinke oversees some 500 million acres of land or one fifth of the United States and 1.7 billion acres on the Outer Continental Shelf. Its a job that comes with the sometimes conflicting tasks of preserving and protecting public lands and waters for future generations while also setting the policies that govern extracting natural resources from them. Zinke has said that hes succeeded in striking the right balance but conservation efforts have taken a clear backseat as the administration has pushed forward with its energy dominance agenda. There were moments during Tuesdays speech where Zinke sounded like a seasoned oil man. He said he is bullish on energy and expects that within two years the U.S. will be marching real close to producing 14 million barrels of oil per day. And he agrees with Russian President Vladimir Putin that 60 per barrel is a good spot to keep the economic engine in good shape he said. Weve gotten a lot better as industry Zinke said quickly correcting himself. Youve gotten a lot better. He pointed to energy producers success with domestic shale production noting that companies have been able to turn a profit on oil from the Bakken fields in Montana and North Dakota when prices have been at around 30 per barrel. That he said shows you how good we are and efficient we are. Zinke also saw the friendly atmosphere as an opportunity to once again cast doubt on the latest federal climate assessment. The 1600 page report was issued by 13 federal agencies including Interior and released on Black Friday the day after Thanksgiving a move that many saw as an administrative attempt to bury the findings. Like so many other climate reports before it the assessment warns that greenhouse gas emissions have put the planet on a path toward catastrophic climate change. But instead of blasting the reports authors there are more than 300 for basing their findings on the most extreme scenarios a false claim that he and the White House pushed last week Zinke on Tuesday blamed the media among other targets. The media focused on worst case scenarios which statistically we may not even be able to reach he said. The facts of the matter is observable data climate change is more toward the peace time he added comparing the document to international relations. Its kind of like the military he said. Theres peace time and theres global nuclear combat. The media focused on global nuclear combat. A lot of the millennials look at that report and they dont look at the models instead focusing on rising sea levels that statistically and data wise we dont know he said. Zinke boasted to the room full of oil executives who have been primary beneficiaries of the Trump administrations denial of climate science and energy dominance agenda that the U.S. has led the charge in reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. His concern as the leader of the federal agency he said is that we need to be better at emphasizing the case for American energy.	False	False	False	True	True
They are essentially living corpses says Colombian scientist Rodrigo Bernal of Colombia's national tree. The ceroxylon quindiuense a distinct species of palm tree which was declared the country's national tree in 1985 is on the verge of extinction and most Colombians are not even aware of the problem. That is because it takes decades for the palms to show signs of decay even when they have already reached the end of their lifespan and scientifically they are dead explains Mr Bernal. He is one of the scientists who has been studying the trees over the past two decades and he is more than a little worried. Thousands of tourists travel to the Cocora Valley in Colombia's coffee region every year to marvel at the towering palms. But even in this area famous for its wax palms the trees are few and far between. The trees live for up to 200 years and because of their long lifespan their decay will only be seen by younger generations Mr Bernal told the BBC. This is why so many Colombians do not realise our national tree is dying out. Since 1989 the number of trees in the region has declined by 78 and there are now only about 2000 palms left in the Cocora Valley a group of scientists which has been monitoring the population says. The wax palms are not only a tourist attraction but a key component in the region's ecosystem. The fruits produced by the trees feed a large number of insects birds and mammals. But according to Mr Bernal the palms in the Cocora Valley are at risk. Much of the valley's once lush dense forest has been cut down to make way for cattle grazing. This poses problems for the seeds of the wax palm. They either get burned in the sun or they get eaten by the cows. Although the living trees are relatively healthy when they start to decay naturally there are no young saplings to take their place. The Quindo Wax Palm grows in very few areas in Colombia. Apart from the Cocora Valley they can be found in Tochecito an area in Valle del Cauca province. The little known Tochecito is thought to hold the largest number of trees an estimated 70 of the national total. But the fact that parts of the area were occupied by the now largely disbanded Farc guerrilla group means that research there was almost impossible. Scientists hope the number of trees may actually be bigger. Mr Bernal and his fellow scientists have turned their attention to Tochecito in the hope that they can preserve its wax palms before it is too late. With the area now safer and more accessible following the 2016 peace deal with the Farc rebels farmers are moving back and the scientists fear for the future of the national tree. We predict we could see half the wax palm population disappear in as little as 50 years' time says Luis Santiago Castillo Martnez of the Humboldt Institute an environmental research organisation. Tochecito is our best opportunity to protect the palms he says of the 42 sq km 16 sq mile area. The palm trees are legally protected under a law passed in 1985 which prevents their branches being cut off for use during religious celebrations such as Palm Sunday but there are few repercussions for those who completely fell the trees. Tochecito currently belongs to 40 private landowners and Mr Bernal along with the Humboldt Institute has been asking the Colombian government to declare the area a national park but so far with little success. The most we could achieve was to encourage the owners to declare their farms private reserves says Mr Bernal. Unfortunately there is a loophole to that status he adds. This just means your land is a protected area but it's an empty status as you can use your land however you see fit. If these landowners decide they want to clear their land they can. Mr Bernal and his fellow scientists have for years been urging the government to buy up the land a move they estimate would cost 10m 7.7m but so far no action has been taken. It's not a huge amount. It's cents for a nation like Colombia. The government has the authority to buy this land and protect the trees but refuses to do so. It is incredibly frustrating he says. The BBC approached Colombia's environment ministry ministry and the government body which oversees the management of Colombia's national parks for comment but did not receive an answer. Colombia's 58 national parks are managed by the National Parks Systems and while the number of those designated as protected in Colombia has been growing the budget has been cut leaving it struggling for resources. Mr Castillo says money is key The first step to protecting the palms will be to allocate the proper amount to the environmental sector. Mr Bernal and his fellow scientists have developed a management plan to save the species but the budget cuts mean their strategy is unlikely to be enacted. I'm so disappointed Mr Bernal says. This tree is beloved by Colombian people everyone knows it is our national tree But nobody knows we are about to lose it.	False	True	False	True	False
This story was originally published byGristand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration. More than 1000 people crowded into the Showbox a music venue in downtown Seattle on Tuesday afternoon to witness Pete Buttigieg make an appearance in the Emerald City. The presidential candidate was running more than 45 minutes late and was just beginning to lose his audienceIm starting not to love Pete so much someone remarkedwhen he took the stage. The mayor of South Bend Indiana hasrisen swiftly in the pollsand managed tooutraise the rest of the Democratic fieldthis quarter. Buttigieghas credited climate changefor inspiring him to jump into the presidential race. One of the reasons Im running for president is because America is running out of time he said on Tuesday framing the issue as a national security threat If were gonna get real about national security the time has come to treat climate disruption as the threat that it is. But Buttigieg hasnt yet released a climate plan on par with those proposed by some of his rivals including Washington Governor Jay Inslee who aims to mobilize9 trillion to combat the crisisand has based his entire presidential bid on the issue. SenatorElizabeth Warren former Texas RepresentativeBeto ORourke and evenJoe Biden the candidate to beataccording to most polls have proposed sweeping climate plans with trillions of dollars at play. Mayor Pete has released one climate related policy proposal so far aclimate corps similar to AmeriCorpsthat would put thousands of Americans to work on climate resilience and conservation endeavors. We do better when we have a project he said of his proposal at the Seattle event. But where does Buttigieg stand when it comes to implementing an economy wide plan? Buttigiegs answer to a question from the crowd shed light on what his climate plan could look like when or if he releases one. First A carbon tax and dividend. This is not about taking money out of the economy he said. I propose that we rebate that money right back out to the American people and we do it progressively. His pitch sounds like a revenue neutral carbon tax a fee on pollution that gets returned to taxpayers every year instead of going toward a climate resiliency fund or a green project. Well have to wait for his actual plan to figure out what he means when he says he wants to do it progressively. Its an idea that hasfailed at the ballot boxtwice in Washington state but a couple of other candidates including Inslee and Cory Booker have also championed some kind of carbon tax. Next massively increase the amount of federal RD that goes into not just renewable energy but also energy storage and carbon storage he said adding that this investment should be on par with the moon landing or the Manhattan Project. Every candidate with a climate plan so far has vowed to dedicate major resources to green research and development. Buttigieg said he wants toquadruple federal funding for RD. Then rejoin the Paris Agreementsomething thatall the Democrats running for president have said theyll doand host a stateside Pittsburgh Summit for mayors who are championing green policies and targets in their cities. A lot of the answers are coming from the communities he said. Finally Buttigieg emphasized the role rural America can play in mitigating the crisis. Every part of the American spectrum needs to be a part of the solution its not just cities he said. Buttigieg said earlier in the night that science sets the timeline for climate action not politics. But even if he took the White House in 2020 a carbon tax some more federal investment in RD a national service corps and yet another climate summit probably wont put the United States on the path to decarbonizationat the pace that science demands. At any rate it still doesnt have the same meat as the trillions promised and plans proposed by other candidates. Nevertheless some audience members were impressed by Buttigiegs vision of a green America. Nancy Lauterbach a 57 year old real estate agent said Buttigieg is savvy enough to put the RD that is needed into climate change. Ken Miller a 71 year old who owns a construction business liked the mayors authenticity. I thought his point that the timeline is set by science not by politics was compelling Miller said. As well as the fact that we as a country need a project and climate change is as good a one as well ever have.	True	True	True	True	True
In an interview on MSNBC on Thursday former Secretary of State John Kerry said President Donald Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris Climate Accord puts America last is shameful and will hurt kids by worsening their asthma. It is a shameful moment for the United States to have unilaterally walked away from an agreement which did not have one other country requiring us to do something Kerry told Andrea Mitchell. It was a voluntary program The president was not truthful with the American people today and the president who talked about putting America first has now put America last. Kerry claimed Trump is not helping the forgotten American. Trump is not helping the forgotten American Kerry said. He is hurting them. Their kids will have worse asthma in the summer. They will have a harder time having economic growth. Hes made us an environmental pariah in the world and I think it is one of the most self destructive moves Ive ever seen by any president in my lifetime. Kerrys primary arguments that Trumps decision will hurt kids with asthma and damage the economy were incredibly misleading. A 2015 study by researcher Dr. Corrine Keet at Johns Hopkins Children Center found no statistically significant difference in the prevalence of asthma for kids living in inner city areas where there is much more air pollution and kids who live in the suburbs and rural areas. More than 23000 children were included in the study. Daniel Simmons the vice president for policy at the Institute for Energy Research noted in a quote appearing in an article by EE News that asthma rates have been steadily worsening even though air quality has been improving. Air quality has been increasing pollution has been decreasing things are getting better and asthmas getting worse Simmons said. You have this disconnect. In 2013 USA Today reported that Earths warming climate has caused pollen season to increase thereby exacerbating many peoples asthma. If climate change is being caused by human produced carbon dioxide this could lend support to Kerrys claim about asthma. Of course scientists disagree over what has caused Earths climate to warm over the past century and perhaps most importantly increased pollen comesfrom increased plant growth and as a result increased crop yields. Should more plants and food for people and animals really be demonized? Kerrys argument that Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris Agreement will cause economic problems is equally absurd. Kerry cited in the interview the millions of renewable energy jobs that have been created to help curb carbon dioxide emissions as an example of how the Paris Agreement and its associated efforts would have a positive impact on the economy but the truth is that the only reason the wind and solar energy industries have been able to survive is because they are heavily subsidized by taxpayers. Further wind and solar are much more expensive forms of energy which means Americans power bills would continue to rise under the terms of the Paris Climate Agreement. As H. Sterling Burnett a research fellow in climate and energy issues for The Heartland Institute where I also work as executive editor and a research fellow noted in a recent article on Trumps decision Numerous studies including a NERA Economic Consulting report cited in Trumps announcement showed meeting the carbon dioxide targets imposed on the United States under the Paris agreement would force the premature closing of many of the nations least expensive power plants. NERA estimated meeting the nations obligations under the agreement would cost the U.S. economy nearly 3 trillion and by 2040 the United States would have lost 6.5 million industrial sector jobs including 3.1 million manufacturing jobs.	True	False	False	True	True
Bottled water firm Crystal Geysers heavily protested plans for a plant in Washington state are all but dashed after company execs accidentally sent an internal email calling the operation dead to the local press. Crystal Geyser bottles natural spring water and sells it to thirsty Americans with nearly one in five consumers drinking its beverages every month. However few are happy to live near the firms bottling plants where they say heavy traffic disturbs their sleep and the companys water collection activities threaten endangered species and destroy the rural character of their areas. Earlier this year Crystal Geyser bought land in Lewis County Washington. The company planned on building a 100000 square foot plant that would extract 400 gallons of water per minute from nearby springs. At present Crystal Geyser needs a county permit to begin operations. However in an email accidentally sent to The Chronicle but intended for a higher up Chief Operating Officer Page Beykpour said that the plan is likely dead because the opposition has successfully convinced officials and the media against us. Locals did come out in force against the plant with concerned citizens flooding council meetings since the plans were announced last month. Facebook groups have sprung up to oppose the plant and the local tribal council voted unanimously against it. Beykpour offered his boss two long shot options to push back against the public outcry. Option one involved hiring a PR firm to manufacture fake grassroots support for the facility and change the conversation. With pro corporate protesters likely to raise some eyebrows he outlined a more radical approach sue locals in the area for past damages to the local water system to bring them to the table. If both options were to fail Beykpour suggested we dump this site and move on. Once the paper got a hold of the email Crystal Geyser went into panic mode. The newspaper claims Beykpour called the Chronicle and pleaded for the email not to be published and admitted that the company is still mulling suing its neighbors. In his email Beykpour had claimed the Chronicle was in bed with the opposition. A lawyer representing Crystal Geyser called the newspaper and threatened legal action for running the story. The Chronicle rubbished the threat quoting a media law expert who stated that the companys email screw up was its own fault and not the newspapers. RT has reached out to Crystal Geyser for comment and is awaiting a response. Crystal Geyser is no stranger to local anger. Residents in Mount Shasta California were furious when the company announced plans to bottle water from a local aquefier in 2014 at a time when the state was threatened by drought and Californians faced mandatory water use restrictions. In 2018 the company was accused of illegally disposing of arsenic tainted wastewater from another of its California plants. According to a 16 count indictment Crystal Geyser discharged the toxic waste into a pond that staff dubbed the arsenic pond and then worked with two waste disposal firms to illegally transport the arsenic to a plant without a license to treat it. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	True	True	False	True	False
WASHINGTON A Trump administration plan to provide older and disabled citizens greater access to national parks by expandingthe use of electric bikes is revving upcriticism from nature advocates who say the policy threatens to disturb pristine trails and poses a safety hazard. The National Park Service NPS announced the change Friday which would allow battery powered e bikes that can reach speeds of 28 miles per hour on the same park roads and trails that permit traditionalbicycles. The motor may not be used to propel an e bike without the rider also pedaling except in locations open to public motor vehicle traffic under the policy. They make bicycle travel easier and more efficient and they provide an option for people who want to ride a bicycle but might not otherwise do so because of physical fitness age disability or convenience especially at high altitudes or in hilly or strenuous terrain saidNational Park ServiceDeputy Director P. Daniel Smith. The change has drawn criticism by park advocates and some trail enthusiasts who say the administration did not do enough to seek public input on a policy that could damagethe park experience for many. E bikes have a place on national parks roads and motorized trails. But this announcement disregards well established policies for how visitors can enjoyably and safely experience the backcountry in national parks said Kristen Brengel senior vice president at the National Parks Conservation Association. For generations weve agreed that there are some places so special that they should be protected for visitors to enjoy away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life. Said Tyler Ray director of policy and advocacy for theAmerican Hiking Society Permitting e bike use on trails that have been thoughtfully and specifically designated as non motorized raises questions of safety and trail sustainability that must be considered. An e bike is classified asa two or three wheeled cycle with fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts 1 h.p. that provides propulsion assistance. Park Service officials notethe policy is modeled after a number of states that already allow expanded use of electric bikes. Mounting backlog Crumbling national parks Congress looks to hike funds for repairs after years of neglect In making the announcement the NPS touted the environmental effects of the new policy saying the e bikes can reduce greenhouse gas emissionswhen used as an alternative to cars and motorcycles and improve poor air quality at national parks by reducing traffic congestion. Park visitors posting in June before the policy was announced on the independent National Parks Traveler web siteexpressed mixed opinions on the expanded use of the electronic bikes. Someworriedthe low humming devices will add congestion noise and safety risks to normally quiet trails while others saidnational park trails should be more accessible to those who have physical handicaps. National monument Medgar Evers home would become national monument under lands bill sent to Trump Having an electric bike I would love the opportunity to enjoy nature trails specific to e bikes wrote Elizabeth Binnings who describes herselfas a disabled person with limited leg strength. Obviously not all trails are smooth enough but it would enhance my enjoyment of life to get out in nature and isn't that the point of National parks. There are plenty of places in most parks for those who are not 'physically able' to enjoy without getting on an e bike Alice Tharp posted on the blog.What's next? Elevators to Angels Landing at Zion National Park in Utah for those who can't hike it a tram ride at Yosemite National Park in California to get to the top of El Capitan?	False	True	False	False	False
Antarctica Has Lost More Than 3 Trillion Tons Of Ice In 25 Years Scientists have completed the most exhaustive assessment of changes in Antarctica's ice sheet to date. And they found that it's melting faster than they thought. Ice losses totaling 3 trillion tonnes or more than 3.3 trillion tons since 1992 have caused global sea levels to rise by 7.6 mm nearly one third of an inch according to a study published in Nature on Wednesday. Before 2010 Antarctica was contributing a relatively small proportion of the melting that is causing global sea levels to rise says study co leader Andrew Shepherd of the University of Leeds. But that has changed. Since around 2010 2012 we can see that there's been a sharp increase in the rate of ice loss from Antarctica. And the ice sheet is now losing three times as much ice Shepherd adds. The annual sea level rise that's attributed to Antarctica has tripled from 0.2mm to 0.6mm he says. That's a big jump and it did catch us all by surprise Shepherd says. The melting is caused by rising ocean temperatures due to climate change. Shepherd says they've seen the most dramatic effects in West Antarctica where the ice sheet rests on the sea bed. When we look into the ocean we find that it's too warm and the ice sheet can't withstand the temperatures that are surrounding it in the sea he says. That's causing glaciers to flow more quickly into the sea. East Antarctica which is home to the South Pole has seen considerably less melting because most of its ice is above sea level. That's an important distinction because it means it's insulated from changes in the ocean's temperature. This assessment conducted by 84 scientists from 44 international organizations is known as the Ice Sheet Mass Balance Inter comparison Exercise IMBIE. There have been many other estimates of how much ice has melted in Antarctica. And many of those papers showed different results. Some of the estimates covered different proportions of the ice sheets some of them covered different time periods and all of them used different methods and so it became difficult for people who are not specialists to try to pick them apart says Shepherd. So that was the motivation for originally setting up the project. The scientists combined 24 different satellite surveys which Shepherd says provides a more complete picture of the overall ice sheet change than previous studies. We believe that we've captured all of the different satellite records that exist on the planet he says. To analyze the ice the researchers use three different kinds of measurements. Satellite altimeters measure the height of the ice sheets to see how much they are thinning or thickening over time. Another measurement records the speed of the glaciers and how they're moving into the ocean. Finally the scientists are recording gravity measurements for Antarctica. These tell us about changes in the earth's gravitational attraction over time and that can be related to the mass of the ice sheets overall Shepherd says and they are really powerful measurements because they can add up everything across Antarctica. So what accounts for the apparent three fold speed up in Antarctica's melting in the last five years? Shepherd says that actually their data shows a a progressive increase in ice loss throughout the whole 25 year time period. However a period of heavy snowfall between 2005 and 2010 masked some of the immediate effects of the ice loss accounting for the sudden steep increase in more recent years. This new data creates a much starker picture of the future than previous estimates. Shepherd says until 2010 the data had been tracking a lower scenario which estimated that Antarctica wouldn't make much of a contribution to sea level rise at all because of the effects of higher snowfall. However he says that now the data is tracking a higher scenario which could mean nearly 6 inches of additional sea level rise in the next century. That could be a big deal he says for anybody who lives works and governs a coastal region. Understanding the rate of Antarctica's melting is crucial for these communities. If all of the ice in Antarctica melted global sea levels would rise by more than 190 feet.	True	True	False	True	False
Jessica Fujan chants on the Wacker Drive during a 100 Days of Failure protest and march Saturday April 29 2016 in Chicago. Thousands of people across the U.S. are marking President Donald Trump's hundredth day in office by marching in protest of his environmental policies. AP PhotoNam Y. HuhAP It seems like every week theres a new story about some completely unprecedented unpredictable environmental event. Antarctica is turning green. California is paralyzed by drought. Forests are shifting and the first climate refugees have lost their homes. The climate is changing and quickly. And we arent keeping up with it. This isnt because there is not enough scientific evidence to prove the threatthere is. It isnt because the majority of Americans dont believe climate change is caused by human activitythey do. And it isnt as has been suggested because weve become so immune to data that numbers arent persuasive anymore. We arent keeping up with climate change because the environmental movement is allowing a legacy of implicit bias to constrict its leadership and strategy. By refusing to challenge the long held belief that white environmentalists are the most informed prepared passionate dedicated defenders of our planet and its natural resources the movement silences communities of color. It silences the very people who often feel the greatest impact of a warming planet even though activists of color could make or break success for this work. In our new report Green 2.0 found that the environmental movementfrom boards to executive leadership to staffis still overwhelmingly white. Green 2.0 is an advocacy campaign that monitors and supports diversifying the racial and ethnic demography of mainstream environmental NGOs foundations and federal government agencies. We help hiring managers and executive search firms access the deep pipeline of qualified candidates of color help organizations build an equitable and inclusive culture internally and advocate for data transparency across the sector. For the past three years we have been working to build our database of the diversity of the top 40 NGOs across the movement. In 2014 we reported their staff and leadership demographics to create the first ever snapshot of the sector. It was that baseline that we used in the report we release today the Transparency Card which evaluates what kind of change has been made. We saw some encouraging progress. Overall environmental organizations have committed to improving diversity among their staff and board since we started this work. It is evidenced by the number of diversity committees managers and plans that have sprung up since 2014. Across the movement people of color represent 27 15 24 of staff leadership and board positions respectively in 2017. But theres still much more work to be done. More than 70 of those working in the space are white. Diversity is still seriously lacking at the senior leadership level. Two organizationsOceana and the Pew Charitable Trustsrefused to even participate in the survey. This is problem and not just a theoretical one. From Flint to Standing Rock weve seen that communities of color are disproportionately affected by pollution and climate change. When they dont have a seat at the table how can the movement be ready to systematically tackle issues that affect them uniquely? Without people of color in leadership and policymaking positions their perspectives are less likely to be included in outcomes. And furthermore with the environmental challenges facing us right nowfrom the new energy economy to ocean acidificationwe need all the creativity available to help us find pathways to clean food water and air. Its simple the more diverse the group discussing the problem is the more comprehensive sustainable and creative the solutions are. The time has come for radical thinking for inclusive problem solving for crowd sourced innovation. We have spent decades leaving people of color out of the environmental movement. Its time that we own our mistakes and get real about our shortcomings. Its long overdue that we intentionally count how many people of color are staffing and leading the professional environmental sector. Its urgent that we bring more voices into the conversation. Or we could let implicit bias and systemic racism undercut any chance we have at a sustainable future. The planet isnt going to wait for us to get this right. Its already far outpacing our efforts to respond to the crisis of climate change. Its time we stop letting it. Whitney Tome is the Executive Director of Green 2.0	True	False	False	False	True
Former Vice President Al Gore blasted the decision of President Donald Trump to remove the U.S. from the Paris Climate Agreement on Thursday calling it reckless and indefensible. Gore who has made two documentaries advocating climate change action said in a statement Removing the United States from the Paris Agreement is a reckless and indefensible action. It undermines Americas standing in the world and threatens to damage humanitys ability to solve the climate crisis in time. But make no mistake if President Trump wont lead the American people will. Civic leaders mayors governors CEOs investors and the majority of the business community will take up this challenge Gore said. We are in the middle of a clean energy revolution that no single person or group can stop. President Trumps decision is profoundly in conflict with what the majority of Americans want from our president but no matter what he does we will ensure that our inevitable transition to a clean energy economy continues. PARIS AGREEMENT ON CLIMATE CHANGE WASHINGTON REACTS TO US PULLOUT The Paris accord will undermine our economy Trump said during the announcement in the White House Rose Garden. Participating in the deal the president argued puts us at a permanent disadvantage. Its time to exit he said. The Paris Climate Agreement is a pact among nearly 200 nations made to voluntarily cut greenhouse gas emissions in an effort to combat climate change. Under the terms of the deal the U.S. the worlds second largest emitter of carbon would be required to reduce fossil fuel emissions around 30 percent by 2025. Gore and Trump previously met at Trump Tower in New York City in December. Gore called the conversation he had with Trump at the time extremely interesting.	False	False	False	True	True
Most also say that water is the most important issue to them in that category. According to the poll which has a 3.4 margin of error 67 of Democrats 54 of independents and 33 of Republicans believe that Democrat Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom and Republican businessman John Coxs views on environmental issues will impact how they vote. So far Newsom holds a 24 point lead over Cox who beat former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigos in the June primary to proceed to the November general election. Meanwhile the PPIC poll also found that likely voters see drought and water supply as the top environmental issue facing the state followed by air pollution a majority 58 support a water bond on the November ballot and noted that astrong majority of likely voters 69 say that the effects of global warming have already begun. In an interview with the Flash Report this week Cox said water housing affordability and the gas tax are the three main issues he wants to tackle. He reportedly blamed out of touch elites for the Golden States water issues and called Newsom the poster boy for these problems. Environmental issues have been a strong point for Newsom who last year said hewould use specific environmental laws in California to stop President Donald Trumps border wall from being built. For all the talk about the importance of environmental issues to voters in the deep blue state of California the topic does not seem to do well for media outlets even left wing ones. Chris Hayes of MSNBC recentlysaid networks mostly try to avoid discussing environmental issues related to the topic of climate change because almost without exception. every single time weve covered its been a palpable ratings killer. so the incentives are not great. Adelle Nazarian is a politics and national security reporter for Breitbart News. Follow her onFacebookandTwitter.	False	True	False	True	False
The global strike set just days before September 23s U.N. Climate Action Summit in New York is expected to draw millions of activists who believe human activity is contributing to climate change and that drastic measures such as limiting meat consumption reforming the transportation sector and banning plastic straws need to be taken in order to combat the looming threat. Videos are surfacing from protests across the globe showing sizable crowds in places like Ireland Germany Australia Uganda and more Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn participated in the climate strikes in London and condemned President Trump for pulling out of the Paris Climate Agreement. No more of this handholding with Donald Trump he told the crowd. We want every country on board on this There are also climate strikes taking place in major cities across the U.S. including Boston San Francisco Seattle D.C. and New York City. Famed teen activist Greta Thunberg who sailed to the U.S. in order to avoid making a massive carbon footprint will participate in the climate strike in New York City where over one million students have been given permission to skip class in order to protest climate change Many Democrat presidential candidates are praising the effort as protests continue to kick off across the nation. There is nothing more powerful than our nations youth marching together demanding action be taken to protect our planet and their future Sen. Kamala Harris D CA wrote. Its time our leaders listened. Climate change is an existential threatand we are already facing the effects. The youth led and the solidarity strikes from groups like show that our country is ready to fight for the big structural change well need to tackle the climate crisis Sen. Elizabeth Warren D MA tweeted Young people have already demonstrated they can take on powerful fossil fuel companies and force politicians to answer their call to action Sen. Bernie Sanders I VT wrote. To the millions of young people and allies worldwide who are striking today to demand climate justice I stand with you. he added Our planet is in crisisbut we arent powerless to combat it Sen. Cory Booker D NJ declared. Inspired by the young people leading on todays and committed to standing alongside them in the battle against climate change The global strike follows Thunbergs appearance before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and Select Committee on the Climate Crisis. She submitted the United Nations IPCC Special Report on Global Warming as her written testimony writing I am submitting this report as my testimony because I dont want you to listen to me I want you to listen to the scientists. And I want you to unite behind the science.	True	False	False	True	True
A coal fired power plant in central Poland. Global greenhouse gas emissions rose in 2018 and the world is on track for potentially catastrophic climate change in the coming decades. Czarek SokolowskiAP hide caption toggle caption Czarek SokolowskiAP A coal fired power plant in central Poland. Global greenhouse gas emissions rose in 2018 and the world is on track for potentially catastrophic climate change in the coming decades. Czarek SokolowskiAP Leaders from nearly 200 countries are attending a special United Nations Summit on climate change today as they face increasing pressure from citizens around the world to cut global greenhouse gas emissions and slow global warming. Currently global emissions are on track to cause potentially catastrophic climate change in the coming decades. The summit acts as a kickoff to international climate negotiations in 2020 which is the next deadline for countries to make dramatic emissions reduction promises under the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change. I am appealing for leadership from politicians from businesses and scientists and from the public everywhere U.N. Secretary General Antnio Guterres said when he announced the summit. We face a direct existential threat. Climate change is moving faster than we are. Indeed average temperatures on Earth continue to rise driving sea level rise more frequent and severe storms longer heat waves and cold snaps and more extreme rainstorms and droughts. Economic costs associated with such disasters are mounting. Although nearly every nation on the planet including the United States promised to reduce their net greenhouse gas emissions when they signed the Paris Agreement way20170601531048986 so what exactly is in the paris climate accord climate scientists warn that the cumulative pledges are nowhere near sufficient. Humans must limit global warming to about 1.5 degrees Celsius forecast from u n on global climate change above preindustrial temperatures in order to avoid the most catastrophic impacts of climate change. But right now if you take up all the pledges that governments have put forward for the Paris Agreement we're looking at about 3.5 degrees Celsius of warming by 2100 explains Angel Hsu nus.edu.sgaboutfacultyangel hsu an assistant professor of environmental studies at Yale NUS College in Singapore. We're way off Hsu says. What's really worrisome is that we need global emissions to peak by next year by 2020. That's really soon. China and the U.S. are the top greenhouse gas emitters in the world and their cooperation was the crucial foundation for the Paris Agreement. Delegations from both countries will attend today's U.N. summit but their positions have diverged. In the U.S. President Trump has threatened to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and his administration has moved to allow greater emissions from power plants vehicles and oil and gas operations. Despite local climate pledges by dozens of states and hundreds of cities the United States right now is not on track to meet its climate change commitments under the Paris Agreement says Kelly Levin levin a climate analyst at the World Resources Institute think tank. China on the other hand is on track to meet its commitments which hinged on reaching peak emissions no later than 2030. There have been some indications that they could peak their emissions by 2022 Hsu says. That's not so far away. That's about eight years ahead of schedule. And China is now a world leader chinas vision for climate action a new york times and conduit club london event in renewable energy including solar wind and hydropower. It's a glimmer of hope in a sea of otherwise dire news. Even as the government invests in clean technology China is building new coal fired power plants is china placing a global bet on coal outside its borders as part of its Belt and Road Initiative massive belt and road initiative. And even if the country's emissions start declining in the coming years it will likely be too slow to keep global temperatures in check. Nonetheless China is expected to be one of the countries to announce their intention to set more drastic emissions targets at today's summit. India is also expected to announce a plan to update its emissions promises. And some world leaders including the delegation from France are expected to announce that they intend to make drastic emissions cuts in the coming decade. 	True	False	False	True	True
The White House on Tuesday denied that it is currently considering two controversial provisions to raise revenue as part of its broad tax overhaul. Earlier in the day The Washington Post reported that the Trump administration was looking at a value added tax or carbon tax as part of its reform plan. However the newspaper stressed administration officials say the plan is not finalized and the Trump administration continues to mull alternatives. As we have said many times the President's team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the President's plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986. As of now neither a carbon tax nor a VAT are under consideration a White House spokeswoman said in a statement. Republicans have turned their attention to an overhaul of the U.S. tax system a key campaign goal after their first attempt to replace the Affordable Care Act failed. Opposition to border adjustment a House GOP provision designed to raise revenue and help to offset major tax cuts threatens to delay or trip up efforts to pass reform. A value added tax which is widely used around the world is consumption based. A carbon tax would hit emissions of greenhouse gases related to the burning of fossil fuels. The carbon tax would appear to clash with the priorities Trump has sought so far in his administration. He has taken steps to start rolling back environmental regulations on coal companies. The White House did not immediately respond to CNBC's request to comment. Watch White House says no to VAT carbon tax	True	False	False	True	True
Your lovely island of Madagascar is rich in plant and animal biodiversity yet this treasure is especially threatened by excessive deforestation from which some profit Pope Francistold authorities and diplomats on Saturday. The deterioration of that biodiversity compromises the future of the country and of the earth our common home he warned. The pope went on to enumerate his vision of the problem while also recognizing that many poor people derive their livelihood from activities that threaten the environment. As you know the last forests are menaced by forest fires poaching the unrestricted cutting down of valuable woodlands he said. Plant and animal biodiversity is endangered by contraband and illegal exportation. It is also true however that for the peoples concerned a number of activities harmful to the environment at present ensure their survival. So it is important to create jobs and activities that generate income while protecting the environment and helping people to emerge from poverty he declared. The pontiff tied together social and ecological problems insisting that the two are intimately intertwined. We are faced not with two separate crises one environmental and the other social but rather with one complex crisis which is both social and environmental he said. In a word there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earths goods not only of present generations but also of those yet to come he said. Pope Francis has made the care of the environment a central theme of his six year pontificate returning again and again to issues of ecological responsibility the dangers of carbon emissions and the scourge of climate change. In 2015 he became the first pope in history to devote an entire encyclicalletterto the topic of the environment with the publication ofLaudato SiPraised Be urging Christians to become more ecologically aware. In that text the pontiff said that the earth is beginning to look more and more like an immense pile of filth as once beautiful landscapes are now covered with rubbish. He also denounced a failure to recycle paper and other resources while calling climate change a global problem with grave implications and one of the principal challenges facing humanity in our day. Citing scientific studies the pontiff said that most global warming in recent decades is due to the great concentration of greenhouse gases carbon dioxide methane nitrogen oxides and others released mainly as a result of human activity.	True	False	False	True	False
Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezrecently suggested Miami would disappear ina few years due to climate change. The United Nations is convening a Climate Action Summit next week. And climate activist Greta Thunberg is on Capitol Hill this week telling lawmakers they must actsoon. But while data from NASA and other top research agencies confirms global temperatures are indeed rising a newly compiled retrospective indicates the doomsday rhetoric is perhaps more overheated. NYC SAYS 1.1M STUDENTS CAN ATTEND CLIMATE STRIKE PROTEST WITHOUT PUNISHMENT The conservative leaning Competitive Enterprise Institute has put together a lengthy compilation of apocalyptic predictions dating back decades that did not come to passtimed as Democratic presidential candidates and climate activistsrefocus attention on the issue. The dire predictions often repeated inthe media warned of a variety of impending disasters famine drought an ice age and even disappearing nations if the world failed to act on climate change. An Associated Press headline from 1989 read Rising seas could obliterate nations U.N. officials. The article detailed aU.N. environmental official warning that entire nations would be eliminated if the world failed to reverse warming by 2000. Then there were the fears that the world would experience a never ending cooling trend in the Northern Hemisphere. That claim came from an international team of specialists cited by The New York Times in 1978. Just years prior Time magazine echoed other media outlets in suggesting that another ice age was imminent. Telltale signs are everywhere from the unexpected persistence and thickness of pack ice in the waters around Iceland to the southward migration of a warmth loving creature like the armadillo from the Midwest the magazine warned in 1974. The Guardian similarly warned in 1974 that Space satellites show new Ice Age coming fast. In 1970 The Boston Globe ran the headline Scientist predicts a new ice age by 21st century. The Washington Post for its part published a Columbia University scientist's claim that the world could be as little as 50 or 60 years away from a disastrous new ice age. Some of the more dire predictions came from Paul Ehrlich a biologist who famously urged population control to mitigate the impacts of humans on the environment. Ehrlich in 1969warned that everybody would disappear in a cloud of blue steam in 20 years The New York Times reported. According to The Salt Lake Tribune Ehrlich warning of a disastrous famine urged placing sterilizing agents into staple foods and drinking water. ANDY PUZDER HERE'S WHY DEMS WANT TO GENERATE CLIMATE PANIC AS THEY IGNORE WAYS TO REDUCE CARBON EMISSIONS Those predictions were made around the time former President Richard Nixon created the Environmental Protection Agency. Since then the U.S. has adopted a series of environmental reforms aimedat limiting emissions. Years after those initial predictions media outlets and politicians continue to teem with claims of apocalyptic scenarios resulting from climate change. Earlier this month leading Democratic presidential candidates held a town hall on the issue and warned about the existential threat posed by a changing climate. Before the end of the month 2020 candidates are expected to have another climate forum at Georgetown University. CEI's report came just before the U.N. Climate Action Summit on Sept. 23an event that promises to spark the transformation that is urgently needed and propel action that will benefit everyone. It also came a week after Rep.Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. warned that Miami would be gone in a few years because of climate change. She was responding to critics of her ambitious Green New Deal which seeks to reach net zero emissions within just decades. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Ocasio Cortez whose plan has been endorsed by leading presidential candidates previously joked that the world would end in 12 years if it didn't address climate change. But short term predictions weren't a laughing matter in the years following An Inconvenient Truth a documentary produced by former Vice President Al Gore. In 2008 ABC released an ominous video about what the world would look like in 2015. As the video warned about rising sea levels a graphic showed significant portions of New York City engulfed by water.Gore himself famously predicted in the early 2000s that Arctic ice could be gone within seven years. At the end of seven years Arctic ice had undergone a period ofexpansion though recently it has been melting at a quicker pace.	True	False	False	True	True
Instead the city will look for energy from renewable sources including wind and solar he decided. This is the Green New Deal Not in concept not in the future but now Garcetti said as quoted by theLos Angeles Times. He made the decision despite the fact that top staffers have argued in recent months that the gas plants are critical to keeping the lights on in the city theTimes noted. The term Green New Deal refers to a bill introduced by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D NY last week which proposes moving the entire U.S. economy to renewable energy in the next ten years. The plan also aims to provide every American with a guaranteed job with a family sustaining wage adequate family and medical leave paid vacations and retirement security to all people. The bill does not explain how those benefits will be paid for nor how the renewable energy goals will be achieved given that renewables currently provide less than 20 of the countrys energy. Environmentalists are also opposed to using one of those renewable sources hydroelectric power because of concerns about environmental damage caused by dams. California has a law already in place mandating a shift to 100 renewable sources but by 2045 not 2030. It is not clear how the state will achieve that goal. In his comments Garcetti slammed natural gas as an energy source Now is the time to start the beginning of the end of natural gas. Ironically the switch from coal to natural gas over the past decade has enabled the U.S. economy to grow while reducing emissionsover the long run. More gas for electricity has been our most effective weapon at combating climate change wrote RealClearEnergy editor Jude Clemente last year. Garcetti pledged to replace L.A.s natural gas plants with wind and solar energy but offered no plans describing how the city would do so nor whether it would be able to meet the energy needs of an expanding city. Southern California already struggles to provide electricity to consumers during heat waves when air conditioning use is at a maximum and prices soar. In addition utilities have begun shutting down power lines during high winds for fear of starting wildfires. During a natural gas leak in Porter Ranch in 2016 L.A. authorities worried that the temporary closure of one natural gas plant could lead to power outages. Nevertheless Eric Garcetti was bullish on a future without fossil fuels even without a plan to replace them. The mayor said he had challenged the citys Department of Water and Power to come up with an answer Instead of saying all the reasons why not get to a reason as to why. Garcetti will leave office in 2022. The first of the three plants to be replaced will be retired in 2024. Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor at Large at Breitbart News. He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship. He is also the co author ofHow Trump Won The Inside Story of a Revolution which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at 	True	False	False	True	False
The US arm of a European multinational oil and gas company has been approved to begin exploratory drilling in Alaskas Beaufort Sea. Environmentalists argue the Trump administration doesn't have the authority for such a move and it would endanger land and marine life. The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management BOEM gave conditional approval late Wednesday to Eni US the US subsidiary of the Italian company Eni S.p.A. to drill four exploration wells from Spy Island an artificial island created in the Beaufort Sea in Alaska. Drilling can only be conducted in the winter months and is scheduled to begin in December 2017 and end in May 2019 BOEM said. The permit is for preparatory work and does not authorize Eni to produce oil. Over the past 30 days BOEM has been carefully evaluating the EP exploration plan in accordance with federal law and regulationsincluding site specific Environmental Assessmentand conclude with a Finding of No Significant Impact BEOM said in a statement. The Obama administration banned oil and gas exploration in most of the USs Arctic Ocean and Atlantic Ocean waters last year but President Donald Trump ordered Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke in April to review the ban with the goal of opening up offshore areas for oil and gas drilling. Enis lease was due to expire at the end of 2017 according to Kristen Monsell an attorney for the Center for Biological Diversity. The Trump administration provided the public only 21 days to review and comment on the exploration plan and only 10 days to comment on scoping for environmental assessment according to Monsell. Approving this Arctic drilling plan at the 11th hour makes a dangerous project even riskier Monsell told the Guardian. An oil spill here would do incredible damage and itd be impossible to clean up. The Center for Biological Diversity Greenpeace and REDOIL a coalition of Alaska native groups sued the Trump administration on May 3 citing the risk of offshore oil and gas exploration development to local communities and wildlife. The lawsuit also argued that Trumps reversal of the ban exceeded his constitutional authority and was thus unlawful. In the lawsuit the groups argued the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas are still undeveloped and are home to a rich array of unique wildlife species including polar bears walruses whales seals other mammals birds and fish some of which are classified as threatened or endangered. Some of these animals also support thriving indigenous Alaska Native cultural and subsistence activities stated the complaint. Several Arctic mammals including polar bears and bearded seals have been listed under the ESA Endangered Species Act. The region serves as important nurseries feeding grounds and transit routes for marine animals. Seismic surveys and drilling activities could cause disruption and threaten wildlife directly. The area is remote and foreboding the complaint said. In winter the seas are covered in ice and shrouded in darkness it is prone to storms and fog and there is little infrastructure to support industrial activity with just small communities and few jet runways. The region is hundreds of miles from the nearest Coast Guard station. Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oils exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012 which led to a series of problems mistakes and violations of environmental laws. During testing in the placid waters of Puget Sound Shell destroyed its oil spill containment drone. On the way north its drillship the Noble Discoverer dragged its anchor and nearly ran aground while moored near an Alaskan island. Once at the drill site in the Chukchi Sea Shell had to undertake an emergency maneuver to relocate the drillship to avoid a large ice floe. On its way back from the Beaufort Sea it lost control of its drilling vessel the Kulluk which ran aground in the Gulf of Alaska in severe weather and had to be towed to Seattle Washington and then scrapped. The US Coast Guard cited the Noble Discoverer for numerous deficiencies after the drilling season and the EPA determined Shell had violated the Clean Air Act during its drilling efforts and fined the company 1.1 million. Its drilling contractor pleaded guilty to eight felony offenses relating to environmental pollution and safety and agreed to pay 12.2 million in fines.	True	False	False	True	False
Nearly four years later the White House is promoting the same brand of denialism and fealty to the fossil fuel industry at the United Nations climate conference in Poland. But in Washington the snowball metaphor might more accurately describe how a markedly different brand of climate politics is gaining support. By Wednesday the burgeoning effort to establish a select committee in the House of Representatives on a Green New Deal essentially a plan to make a plan picked up its strongest endorsements yet netting support from the co chairs of the 78 member Congressional Progressive Caucus and from the first labor union to back the proposal. At least 35 incoming or sitting House members support the resolution as do four senators. The proposal championed by Rep. elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. came as grassroots groups like the Sunrise Movement and Justice Democrats organized protests at the Capitol with young activists occupying Democratic leaders offices and urging lawmakers to pledge their support. Nearly 150 people were arrested Monday in the groups largest demonstration yet. The resolution faced skepticism from the top Democrats on natural resources and energy committees that wield legislative power over the issues a Green New Deal would cover. But proponents tweaked language in the proposal this week to mandate the select committee to lay out a vision for a Green New Deal while maintaining existing committees authority over the lawmaking process. I wouldnt even call it compromises. It was more specificities Pocan said. It was really getting at making it specific and workable. We wanted to make it so it could be an executable idea. The resolution calls for barring lawmakers who have accepted donations from the fossil fuel industry from serving on the select committee. Maintaining legislative power for existing committees with members who might have taken contributions from oil gas and coal donors could pose some risk but would be worth it said Rep.Pramila Jayapal D Wash. the other Progressive Caucus co chair. The harm thats done in taking legislative authority away from the committees is far too great she said. Everyone is ready. There are a lot of champions in the rooms that we need them to be in who will be controlling the agenda. The unusually speedy sausagemaking process inverts decades of Democrats dithering on the rapidly worsening crisis caused by greenhouse gas pollution. That mirrors the Trump administrations aggressive efforts to unwind the few relatively weak climate regulations that exist and to upend fragile negotiations at the 24th Conference of the Parties in Katowice Poland where diplomats this week are struggling to garner support for basic resolutions recognizing the scientific consensus on global warming. The summit follows an October report from the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that found that world governments must halve emissions over the next 12 years to avert warming of 2.3 degrees Fahrenheit above preindustrial levels beyond which climate change is forecast to be cataclysmic. The Trump administration announced plans to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris Climate Accord but that wont legally go into effect until 2020. In the meantime the administration has worked hard to further undercut the talks. The United States teamed up with Russia Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to weaken a resolution to endorse the report something the State Department outright refused to do. The Democratic Party needs an answer for what their plan is to match the U.N.s recommendations in the IPCC report on climate said Waleed Shahid the communications director for Justice Democrats a left wing group that played a leading role in Ocasio Cortezs winning primary campaign. Young people and Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma. Thats not the only issue for which the Green New Deal would provide a fix. The Democratic Party has long been dogged by tensions between environmentalists clamoring for action on climate change and labor leaders warning against policies that ostracize the fossil fuel industry which provides high paid construction jobs. In August the Democratic National Committee under pressure from unions backtracked on a two month old resolution to ban donations from oil gas and coal companies.	True	False	False	True	False
NEW YORK Over the past two yearscorporate giants have become some of the loudest voices calling for climate change action. Automakers that once killed the electric car are racing to roll outzero emissions rivals to Tesla. Even Exxon Mobil Corp. the oil behemoth that spent decades bankrolling a Big Tobacco style campaign to discredit global warming has named a climate scientist to its board. The site fits comfortably into Bloombergs stable of products anchored by its lucrative data terminal business. In December 2015 just before 195 countries reached the historic emissions cutting deal known as the Paris Agreement Bloomberg published its Carbon Clock featuring a carbon dioxide tracker overlaid on satellite images of the Earth. The company owns Bloomberg New Energy Finance a data firm dedicated to the energy industry. Michael Bloomberg who returned to his namesake company after his third term as New York City mayor is an outspoken climate advocate who this week published a book with former Sierra Club chief Carl Pope on how cities and businesses can lead energy reform. For the launch the site will include a feature on how communities in South Florida are coping with rising waters a short animated video series on heat extreme weather and the cost of carbon and a multi part graphic on Russias growing influence in the fast warming Arctic. Climate Changed gives Bloomberg a leg up on The Wall Street Journal arguably its chief competitor in the market for prestige journalism. The Rupert Murdoch owned newspapers hard line conservativismappears to have bled over from the opinion pages to the news section. A study published in 2015 by researchers at Rutgers University the University of Michigan and the University of Oslo found that from 2006 to 2011 the Journals news reporting rarely mentionedthreats or effects of climate change compared with the countrys other leading broadsheet newspapers. But the new Bloomberg site isnt looking to make a political splash necessarily.Sure President Donald Trump has dismissed climate change as a Chinese hoax and has made gutting environmental policies a cornerstone of his agenda since entering the White House. And yes his budget director called efforts to mitigate or halt climate change a waste of your money. But at Bloomberg raw hard data trumps political rhetoric and the editors there dont buy the billionaire presidents bombast. There is a difference between Trump the politician and Trump the investor Jared Sandberg senior executive editor in Bloombergs digital division told HuffPost. Trump is already building a wall around his seaside Irish golf resort Sandberg noted a sign the risk of rising sea levels is too high to ignore. Its the mother of all risk Sandberg added. If you have intelligence agencies around the world identifying climate change as one of the great destabilizing forces theres a massive risk to contend with for any business and any investor behind it. Climate Changed wont be focused on debunking fringe voices the sort that might show on the pages of the far right news site Breitbart who seek to undermine climate science by depicting it as some kind of conspiracy. Comparing what people say to data then stepping out of the room is sort of the best thing journalists can do Roston said. We dont have a social mission other than transparency and fact checking. Throughout the economy fossil fuels being only the most obvious example new information has come to light that challenges whether historic price levels of these things are appropriate given what weve learned about their impact on society Roston said. He admitted in a media environment that rewards sensationalism and factual manipulation the approach may seem a bit bland. Were not going to win the internet by going out and saying everybody is doing it wrong its just a pricing story. But from a Bloomberg perspective its helpful for me to think of in terms of repricing events. The site has yet to lock down advertisers to sponsor the launch. But it shouldnt have much trouble finding bidders. Nearly every company in the SP 500 now issues regular reports on sustainability efforts. The business community absolutely demands this the investor community demands this Sandberg said. You dont go through the quarterly quarterly results from Coke Levis or anyone else and not come away thinking that they dont have concerns over limited resources like water. The question isnt why now its why havent we all agreed to do this sooner Sandberg added. Weve always had this kind of coverage but I think its high time we do something better to admire it organize it and make it easier for people to discover.	True	True	False	True	True
Chennai is out of water all 4 reservoirs are dry. More than 8.5 million live in greater Chennai so its about the population of greater San Francisco. An India government think tank predicts that by 2030 600 million Indians wont have sufficient drinking water. Its kind of amazing that they didnt see this coming long ago and plan better. And even 2030 wouldnt help right now which is what is needed. Rain is the solution but thats not exactly a sure thing when you are in the middle of a historic drought. Little that can be done right now except to keep on hauling water in from wherever they can. Many more will follow in part because people consider water to be a gift from God. People of India consume lots of water. If the price of water was higher they would consume less and there would be money available to search for new sources of water. The problem is when people think a resource is free and so plentiful that it can never run out that you get situations where it does run out. Clean water has a value. People should be paying what it costs to create and conserve or store fresh water. Regarding the price of water. Pricing will now have to include the risk of drought. The risk of drought is going up rapidly all over the world. I expect that India will need to invest in sea water desalination. That isnt cheap but whatever it costs those costs have to be passed on to the consumers. The rain and drought situation in India is grim. Most of the Indian cities towns and villages are reeling under severe water crisis. A tragedy is unfolding in Maharashtra and a money spinning racket for Tanker owners. Drought in more than forth of Maharashtra. Crores of rupees of the tax payers money will be used for tankers that will cause incredible pollution in the rural areas.Creation of many lakes all over the country to catch and store rain water is a primary objective. Water balancing between various rivers the so called River Linking Project is the second alternative. Once water is available in every village the distribution to houses can be taken up as the third step. Traditional systems perhaps might have to be tweeked a little according to the needs and changing times but there is so much to learn from those who came before us. Village Talab system is one example. When pond of one village was overflowed water was released for next village on slopes. Rainwater was harvested at home. In Junagadh Ahmedabad Cambay cities. I am not sure whether anyone in Tamil Nadu even knows it had a traditional water harvesting system. Similarly Odishas traditional Kutta and Munda water harvesting system by an NGO some decades back but I doubt if any university in Odisha is working on it or the State government is trying to revive the dying wisdom. This is true for all other states barring Karnataka which is trying to bring back the Kalyani water harvesting structures. Reviving traditional water bodies and harvesting systems has been talked for quite sometime but no one seems interested. The largest desalination plant in South Asia is at Chennai one of two there. It produces 36.5 million cubic metersyear. Thats 9.6 billion US gallons. Israel gets the majority of its drinking water from desalination. It has the worlds largest plant at Hadera producing 127 cubic meters from salt water plus it looks like it has larger plants as well. That 33.5 billion gallons. Chennai has a large desalination plant and a smaller one. Their policies are insufficient in many ways. Like what is water used for etc. Regulations on ground water pumping etc. I dont know specifics but do know that if a city this size runs out of water several people didnt do their jobs. Areas that are dry are becoming drier and those that are wet are getting more rain. But some of them have drier soil due to increased temperatures. The entire region from Syria to Iran has been suffering a drought that has been going on for about 15 years. At some point somebody has to call a spade a spade and accept the fact that the drought is the new normal. Seeding clouds can only bring as much rain as there is water in the atmosphere. Global climate change is in turn changing the distribution of where water is accumulating. At the least we must improve our water distribution systems to mitigate the problem. Seeding is only a short term solution. Build nuclear and desalinate Although there is no way nuclear can be added fast enough to by itself desalinate drinking water for 600 million by 2030. And India hasnt signed the nuclear non proliferation treaty. What are the chances India uses geoengineering? The public no tests no international treaties that will stop it. Geoengineering is cheap and not rocket science. A recent study indicates that almost nowhere will suffer under geoengineering. More studies are needed. The most likely is distributing air pollution in the stratosphere.I doubt that India will concern itself with niceties of international cooperation. Or whichever country leads the way. Thats why there has been a campaign for more than a decade test and make treaties. But we were busy.	False	True	False	True	False
This weekend close to 200 million Americans will face temperatures of 90F 32C and higher. Add in humidity and many cities across the East Coast and Midwest will be feeling more like 110F 43C. Heat waves have killed more people on average than any other extreme weather event in the US according to the Centers for Disease Control CDC. Officials define extreme heat as a period of two to three days of high heat and humidity with temperatures above 90F 32C. On the heels of earth's hottest June on record the US National Weather Service NWS estimates over 100 record high minimum temperatures could be set as the heat lingers even past sunset. Here's what that sort of heat can do. Air conditioning is used in 87 of US homes according to a 2018 report by the US Energy Information Administration EIA. During heat waves air conditioning use stresses power grids and can lead to city wide outages. In cities that means millions of units including those on cars and buses and trains constantly pushing out heat into the atmosphere. Studies have found the extra heat from air conditioning can raise temperatures by as much as 2C. And when it gets hotter our thermostats turn lower and the cycle continues. But it goes further than just an ever hotter summer season the emissions from air conditioners and their refrigerants is contributing to climate change. The man made greenhouse gases used in air conditoners called hydrofluorocarbons HFCs are thousands of times more potent than carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. In cities the cycle is also exacerbated by all the concrete asphalt steel and glass creating an urban heat island. When temperatures get too high planes get grounded. Extreme heat reduces air density and the amount of lift a plane can get to take off. Temperatures of 120F 49C saw dozens of flights cancelled in Phoenix during a 2017 heatwave. Smaller planes are affected first but larger Boeing or Airbus jets have maximum operating temperatures around 126F 52C AZ Central reported. In a heat wave concrete and asphalt don't fare well. Asphalt warps and melts. Concrete if water is involved can sometimes explode or break open. This week local media in Kansas has reported several instances of cracked and buckled roads as temperatures rise. In Iowa one city mayor said old concrete roads soaked with floodwaters from this spring are now exploding and damaging sewer lines. The NWS outpost in Omaha Nebraska demonstrated just how hot vehicles can get in heat waves by cooking American biscuits on a dash. The temperatures reached a high of 185F 85C not quite enough for a proper bake but certainly too hot for humans or animals to survive in. According to the National Weather Service 21 young children have died in hot cars this year. Unsurprisingly as everything warms up in a heat wave anything metal gets even hotter. When it comes to power lines this can cause dangerously low sagging. If lines droop low enough to touch the ground or trees they can short out. Kinks can form on train rails when the metal expands. In 2012 a heat kink caused a 32 car long freight train to derail and fly off an overpass a similar derailment happened in 2017. Experts told Fox 26 News more than 2100 trains have been derailed in the last 40 years because of these heat warps. Metal components in draw bridges can expand and become inoperable last year Chicago firefighters had to hose down a downtown draw bridge so it could be used. Crops can also feel the heat. Farmers across the Midwest are warning that vegetables can wilt in the heat and farms will lose productivity worsening the situation after a historic flooding season this spring. Soybean farmers also say the dry conditions could cause an increase in spider mites and other plant diseases. Extreme heat makes pollution worse which can be dangerous for the very young the elderly and anyone with respiratory diseases. In the nation's capital where the mayor has declared a heat emergency officials warned that air quality would reach unhealthy levels for these sensitive groups over the weekend.	False	False	False	True	True
Rose Strauss apparently isnt showing favoritism in the race for Pennsylvania governor at least when it comes to asking candidates about climate change. The 18 year old activist made a name for herself beyond the Keystone State last month when she questioned Republican gubernatorial nominee Scott Wagner at a town hall on what she said was his lack of action on climate change and donations he received from the fossil fuel industry. And why did Strauss win the internet that day? Well in a way she has Wagner to thank for that as he responded by calling Strauss a little young and naive on video which subsequently went viral. Wagner also asked the Glenside crowd Are we here to elect a governor or are we here to elect a scientist? Wagner in 2017 said climate change is likely occurring but perhaps because we have more people. You know humans have warm bodies. So is heat coming off? And his campaign has received163750 from the oil and gas industry according to Vote Smart a nonprofit political watch dog organization the York Dispatch said. John Fetterman the running mate for Democratic Gov. Tom Wolf ripped Wagner on Twitter over his comments toward Strauss. He also used a Young and Naive slogan for 25 T shirts the York Daily Record reported while Wolfs campaign announced free limited edition stickers using the phrase It turns out all the T shirts and stickers in the world immortalizing Wagners words to her could not impede Strauss from turning her confrontation Wolfs way as she and activists tried to intercept the governor as he walked into an event last week the Daily Record said. Tom Wolf! Its Rose Strauss! Its Rose Strauss Tom Wolf! shes heard shouting on video. Im the girl whos young and naive! Strauss then yelled a question at Wolf about the funds his campaign got from the fossil fuel industry 98000 during the 2018 election cycle according to Follow the Money. Strauss said Sunrise Movement Downingtown has twice reached out to Joseph Hill Wolfs deputy campaign manager and political director to request a meeting but has yet to receive a response the Daily Record reported. He has shown support for the young and naive voters Strauss told the paper adding that while Wolf has supported us verbally the governor hasnt committed to action on things we care about like climate change. Wolfs campaign declined to say if hell meet with Strauss and other activists but offered the following statement to the Daily Record Governor Wolf is committed to protecting and preserving the environment. One of his first acts as governor was to sign an executive order reinstating the moratorium on new leases for drilling in state parks and forests and he has been fighting efforts by Republicans in Washington to cut EPA funding. Governor Wolf worked across party lines with the state legislature which is heavily Republican to pass the Chapter 78a Environmental Protection Performance Standards. This bipartisan agreement modernizes and strengthens environmental protections at oil and gas sites in Pennsylvania. He also announced a nation leading strategy to reduce emissions of methane. Governor Wolf has met with environmentalists throughout the state to discuss ways they could work together to combat climate change and strengthen statewide regulations to ensure the protection of public health safety and the environment. He will continue to engage the environmental community throughout the commonwealth to ensure that their voices are heard. Scott is having town halls to articulate his positions on the issues to people of all demographics and backgrounds Wagner campaign spokesman Andrew Romeo told TheBlaze on Wednesday. And while some might disagree with him on a policy approach to an issue which is what happened at the Montgomery County Town Hall he will continue to hold similar events for the remainder of the campaign. If voters want to know Scotts position on an issue they wont have to ambush him outside an event just to get a hold of him they can come ask him their questions in person. He certainly wont bury his head and keep walking. Wagner has since clarified his young and naive comment noting in a Sunday town hall that he didnt believe it was mean and that Im 62 years old and the young lady asking the question was 18. I have a little more experience than she does the Daily Record reported. And that wasnt meant to insult her in any way.	True	False	True	True	False
The Magic School Bus is back in the new Netflix series The Magic School Bus Rides Again! Overall it's still a nice fun 13 episode series like we remember from when we were kids but with some left turns. There is a pretty predictable take on climate change propaganda for little kids but that wasn't the worst. That dubious honor goes to the episode that teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources. In the show Miss Frizzle takes her class on educational field trips with the help of a magical school bus that allow them to learn about things like magnets allergies and states of matter. In the original series the kids were taught by Miss Valerie Felicity Frizzle Lily Tomlin who is now Professor Frizzle. She hands the charge of her classroom over to her sister Miss Fiona Frizzle voiced by Saturday Night Live's Kate McKinnon. Most of the episodes are innocuous enough. The kids have a scientific question of some kind in the classroom and Miss Frizzle takes them to the Magic School Bus where an incredible field trip helps them to understand. This might be a trip to discover how different animals blend into their surroundings to hide from predators how the brain coordinates different parts of the body or what lies deep under the sea. But episode 10 The Tales Glaciers Tell is the first of two questionable episodes. Miss Frizzle's student Dorothy Ann also known as D.A. has been asked to join her storyteller parents in telling a story of her own for a crowd. However she's more into data than storytelling so the kids take a trip to a glacier allowing her to tell the story of you guessed it climate change which is met with a standing ovation by the audience. Really? This is what kids are getting excited about? I doubt it. Of course conserving energy is a good thing and we should be kind to the earth but this climate change hysteria is taking over. Usually somebody will say that 97 percent of climate scientists agree that humans are causing global warming and I was surprised that figure didn't come up in this episode. Could it be that they know how easily debunked that number is? Given the way Dorothy Ann presented man made climate change as fact I doubt it. This issue tends to play incredibly well in the mainstream media as they use climate change as the universal bad guy so I'm sure there were plenty of parents who actually thought this episode was a good idea. I find it hard to believe any parents were happy about this next one though. Episode 12 Monster Power teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources.Albert one of the students has seen a movie in which the evil monster loves pollution and is coming for us next for what we've done to this planet! With the class camping in the woods Miss Frizzle and the other students help him come up with clean energy alternatives wind water etc so they won't be eaten. Instead Miss Frizzle could tell him that monsters aren't real but I guess that didn't occur to her. While it makes sense to teach kids the science of pollution and about all kinds of energy I wouldn't have minded some talk about oil in the dinosaur episode to be honest why would they tell kids that a monster will eat them for using the wrong energy source? I may not have the teaching credentials of Miss Frizzle but I'm pretty sure that's not scientifically accurate.They must really hate fossil fuels as much as their friends on the left. Keeping in mind that the TV Y rating for this series means it's for kids 2 6 I'm sure there are going to be some parents pretty irked at bedtime when kids are scared of the blot monster. Overall this is a cute series and fun bit of nostalgia for those of us who enjoyed the original books or TV series as kids but I could have done without the climate change propaganda and telling kids that traditional energy sources attract monsters is way over the top. Can't kids just learn without an anti scientific social agenda?	True	False	False	False	False
President Donald Trump has been a climate change denier for years alleging that global warming is a Chinese invention and declaring that cold winter days prove that it's a hoax. Perhaps not surprisingly his staff seems to share these views. According to Politico Deputy National Security Advisor K.T. McFarland recently tried to get Trump riled up about climate change with a bit of fake news. McFarland reportedly slipped Trump two Time magazine cover stories. One was supposedly from the 1970s and warned about a coming ice age. The other from 2007 discussed how to survive global warming. But there was one glaring problem The 1970s cover was a hoax. In 2007 Time published a cover story titled The Global Warming Survival Guide. Sometime after that internet hoaxers doctored the cover to instead say How to Survive the Coming Ice Age and alleged that it was a 1977 cover. The hoax spread quickly and climate deniers used it to argue that in the 1970s scientists were actually worried about global coolingand since it didn't happen then the public shouldn't believe warnings about global warming now. The hoax seems to have had its intended effect on Trump who according to Politico quickly got lathered up about the media's hypocrisy. A White House official defended McFarland in an interview with Politico calling the Time hoax fake but accurate. The White House didn't respond to a request for comment from Mother Jones. While the Time global cooling cover story never existed it's certainly true that some media outlets including Time ran stories in the 70s warning about global cooling. One published by Newsweek is a favorite of climate deniers. Scientific American explained Newsweek's global cooling story in 2014 But global cooling was never a popular theory among scientists. Even as some news outlets were writing about it notes Scientific American a counter theory about a warming planet was already on the rise. In fact a survey of peer reviewed scientific papers from 1969 to 1975 shows that the majority of scientists predicted that carbon dioxide levels would rise causing temperatures to rise as well. Scientists have since reached an overwhelming consensus The planet is getting warmer and humans are to blame. But this hasn't stopped climate deniers from citing the old stories as evidence that contemporary news reports about climate change shouldn't be believed. This climate denier for example	True	False	False	True	False
As levels of greenhouse gases reach a new record concerns are growing about the role of China in global warming. For years the increase in the number of Chinese coal fired power stations has been criticised. Now environmental groups say China is also backing dozens of coal projects far beyond its borders. Coal is the most damaging of the fossil fuels because of the quantity of carbon dioxide it releases when it's burned. Last year the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere reached its highest level for the past 3 5 million years according to the latest research by the UN's weather agency the World Meteorological Organisation WMO. And last month the UN's climate science panel said that coal must be phased out by 2050 if the world is to have any chance of limiting the rise in temperatures. The Chinese supported coal projects are under way or planned as far afield as South America Africa southeast Asia and the Balkans. Contracts and financing for these facilities are often not fully transparent but campaign groups including Bankwatch have tried to keep track. You cannot be a world leader in curbing air pollution and at the same time the world's biggest financier of overseas coal power plants the group's energy coordinator Ioana Ciuta told the BBC. According to Ms Ciuta efforts to tackle the dirty air of Chinese cities have led many power companies to limit their ambitions for coal fired power stations in China itself and to target their technology and labour overseas instead. By having China invest in over 60 countries along the Belt and Road Initiative it's perpetuating a source of pollution that has been demonstrated to be harmful not just to the climate but also to economies she said. In Serbia one of the country's largest coal fired power stations is being expanded with the help of a loan from a Chinese bank and with the work being led by one of China's largest construction companies. An hour's drive east of the capital Belgrade in the coal rich Danube valley construction has already started at the site known as Kostolac B3. An existing power station towers over the rolling landscape a steady stream of pollution twisting from a massive smokestack and conveyor belts ferry coal from a nearby open cast mine at Drmno. The power station is run by the national Serbian electricity company EPS which provides about 70 of the country's power by burning coal the rest comes from hydro electric schemes. Now under a 715m 560m contract agreed by the Serbian government and Chinese President Xi Jinping an extra unit is being added which will bring 350MW of additional capacity with the latest super critical technology. When we visit we catch a brief glimpse of a group of Chinese workers wearing hard hats on their way from the construction site to a vast set of accommodation blocks by next year some 1500 Chinese staff will be here. Safety signs and notice boards are written in Serbian and Chinese. Equipment and shipping containers carry Chinese labels. I ask the EPS official running the project Zeljko Lazovic what he feels about such a large and important venture being in the hands of Chinese engineers and workers. In the next few months a lot of Chinese will come here and this will be a big challenge he says. With Chinese workers and Serbian workers at the beginning we had some cultural problems but we have overcome them and there is now very good cooperation. When asked about the environmental cost of the new project Mr Lazovic insisted it would meet all the EU's standards on pollution by dust nitrogen dioxide and sulphur. However the new unit will not be fitted with any carbon capture technology so it will fit into a pattern of Chinese backed projects that will add to carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere. Christine Shearer is an analyst with the group CoalSwarm which tracks coal developments and she is scathing about the implications. These projects are not compatible with limiting global warming to 1.5C or 2C she said referring to the two targets of the Paris Agreement on climate change. She says that Chinese financial institutions are filling a gap left by Western banks and agencies deciding to limit their involvement in coal. These projects if completed will lock the countries into high carbon emitting infrastructure and volatile coal imports precisely at a time when prices for clean energy are starting to fall below that of coal power. We tried to contact the Export Import Bank of China which is providing the loan and the China Machinery Engineering Corporation which is leading the construction but did not hear back. For the Serbian power company EPS the attraction of a local supply of coal has combined with a cheap Chinese loan and the prospects of valuable exports of electricity. About 3500 jobs depend on the Kostolac complex but some local people have become increasingly outspoken about the pollution in the area. Momir Savic showed me how the conveyor belts carrying coal run close to the villages and he fears a further expansion of the operation. The quality of our air and water is very poor. We cannot grow fruit and vegetables. There is also a lot of noise. All this affects the health of people living here many of whom have respiratory diseases he said. EPS says it is spending hundreds of millions of euros on environmental protection but its track record clearly does not inspire trust. Pera Markovic a lawyer with Cekor an environmental group is critical of the company's failure to limit pollution in the local area. But he concedes that Serbia is heavily dependent on coal for its power. For how long? Decades Mr Markovic says. That's likely to be the same in many other countries too whatever climate scientists say is needed.	False	False	False	True	True
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC broke a two year partisan deadlock Thursday night to approve a liquefied natural gas LNG export terminal in Louisiana. Top Department of Energy DOE officials said this was a major breakthrough that will alleviate a growing problem for U.S. energy producers a lack of export infrastructure. We have been promoting US energy around the world and todays decision by the FERC is a very important one DOE Deputy Secretary Dan Brouillette told The Daily Caller News Foundation in an interview.RELATED US Oil Output Hits 12 Million Barrel A Day Milestone Way Ahead Of Schedule The Calcasieu Pass LNG export terminal is the first such project to get FERC approval in two years. Republican FERC commissioners Neil Chatterjee the chairman and Bernard McNamee worked with Democrat Cheryl LaFleur to hash out an agreement to get her support. Chatterjee and McNamee needed LaFleurs vote to approve Calcasieu Pass which they secured after working out a new approach to account for greenhouse gas emissions from the export facility. This is a tremendous breakthrough DOE Under Secretary of Energy Mark Menezes told TheDCNF. We hope it will serve as an analytical template going forward. Once complete Calcasieu Pass terminal will export up 12 million metric tons of LNG a year. Brouillette said the project already has buyers including in Europe waiting for American natural gas. Hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling spurred an oil and natural gas boom over the past decade making the U.S. the worlds top hydrocarbon producer. However a limiting factor on oil and gas is the lack of export terminals and pipelines. Menezes said breaking FERCs deadlock was also an important step in helping DOE improve its own LNG terminal approval process including making sure theres no duplicative reviews. Getting approval to build an LNG export terminal is a long complicated process that requires approval from multiple agencies. FERC currently has a backlog of a dozen LNG projects awaiting approval.RELATED Obama EPA Regulations Blamed For Closure Of 100 Year Old Coal Plant The Trump administration has been pushing for speedier approvals for LNG terminals but FERC has been holding up the process amid pressure from environmental groups to factor global warming into its approval process. LaFleur for example called on FERC to factor in estimates like the controversial social cost of carbon for a cost benefit analysis. However LaFleur agreed to compromise with her Republican colleagues. FERCs other Democratic commissioner Richard Glick opposed the terminalarguinghis colleagues were deliberately ignoring the consequences that its actions have for climate change. The commissions environmental review of Calcasieu Pass found the facility would emit roughly 3.9 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions a year about 0.07 percent of total U.S. emissions. Brouillette argued that while an individual LNG export terminal would emit greenhouse gases it would help lower global emissions because countries want gas as an alternative to coal. To the extent that LNG is displacing coal around the world we think the impact is going to be positive Brouillette said. Brouillette also stressed the geopolitical implications of LNG exports and the role energy could play in President Donald Trumps foreign policy. These are decisions that impact the presidents ability to make foreign policy decisions Brouillette told TheDCNF. We get to assist Poland we get to assist Lithuania we get to assist the Baltic states. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	True	False	False	True
European Commission President Jean Claude Juncker said President Trump doesnt seem to understand that he cant immediately yank the United States out of the Paris Agreement on climate change. Thats not how it works. The Americans cant just leave the climate protection agreement Juncker said Wednesday according to a translation from NBC News. Mr. Trump believes that because he doesnt get close enough to the dossiers to fully understand them. Reports circulated Wednesday that Trump had decided to withdraw from the international pact which has been signed by every country in the world except Nicaragua and Syria but as of late afternoon there was no formal announcement. Juncker the former prime minister of Luxembourg has been leading the European Commission the civil service of the European Unions executive branch in Brussels since November 2014. During a student conference on Europes future he explained that the United States would have to wait three to four years after the agreement took effect in November 2016 before leaving. Juncker and European Council President Donald Tusk represented the European Union at last weeks Group of Seven G7 summit in Taormina a small town in Sicily. They met with leaders from the seven democracies with the worlds most developed economies Canada France Germany Italy Japan the United Kingdom and the United States. Amid talk of combating terrorism and the global economy they also discussed international efforts to fight climate change. These conversations come at a particularly fraught time because Trump who does not share his predecessor Barack Obamas commitment to clean energy has been reviewing the United States environmental policies. According to a translation from NBC News Juncker said that they attempted to explain to Trump that he could not simply pull the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement because the treaty contains safeguards to prevent exactly that. So this notion I am Trump I am American America first and Im going to get out of it that wont happen he continued. We tried to explain that to Mr. Trump in Taormina in clear German sentences. It seems our attempt failed. He said that the law is the law and it must be obeyed regardless of what Trump thinks adding somewhat sardonically that not everything in international agreements is fake news. On Wednesday morning Axios published a report citing two sources with direct knowledge of the decision that Trump was planning to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement. Shortly after the news spread Trump tweeted that he would be announcing his decision regarding the international agreement within the next few days. Later Wednesday during a meeting with Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc of Vietnam at the White House Trump dodged a question about whether he still thinks that climate change is a hoax. When asked if he was leaning in a direction concerning Paris Trump simply said Im hearing from a lot of people both ways. Many scientific organizations have released statements or reports affirming that anthropogenic climate change is real and that it could have devastating effects if actions are not taken to limit carbon dioxide emissions. The American Meteorological Society released a statement that read in part It is clear from extensive scientific evidence that the dominant cause of the rapid change in climate of the past half century is human induced increases in the amount of atmospheric greenhouse gases including carbon dioxide CO chlorofluorocarbons methane and nitrous oxide. Dan Bodansky a law professor at Arizona State University and a leading climate change expert explained that Trump could get the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement two different ways withdrawing from the Paris Agreement itself or leaving the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC. The text of Paris Agreement allows for countries to provide a years notice of its intent to withdraw. But this notice cannot be submitted until three years after the agreement entered into force for that country which happened in November 2016. Whether the U.S. decides to pull out or not under international law and the Paris Agreement the withdrawal would not be effective until 2020 Bodansky told Yahoo News. Another option which would get the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement in just one year would be to leave UNFCCC which was an agreement brokered under former President George H.W. Bush in the early 90s. Although this would be faster it would carry even more serious consequences. Bodansky said that leaving the UNFCCC would automatically get the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement as well. If we pulled out of both then we wouldnt be a party at all. We wouldnt participate in meetings and wed just be there as an observer he said. Both of them would be viewed very negatively by other countries by allies in Europe and elsewhere but pulling out of the Framework Convention would be an even more drastic step. Trump goes after negative press covfefe in botched midnight tweet Duck! Treasury will hit debt limit soon unless Congress votes to raise it	True	False	False	True	True
Energy Secretary Rick Perry veering from the Trump administration message on climate change told CNBC on Wednesday he believes that human activity does play a role. I'm on the record as saying the climate is changing. Man it's been changing forever. Where have you been? Perry said in a Squawk Box interview when pressed on what causes climate change. The climate is changing. Are we part of the reason? Yeah it is. I'll let people debate on who's the bigger problem here. Perry did not quantify whether man made greenhouse gases associated with climate change such as carbon dioxide emissions from burning gasoline and coal or methane releases from natural gas and oil production are the main problem or even whether they're causing the immediate and growing crisis that Democrats contend. However Perry did say that it's still worth developing zero emissions technology and that the Trump administration has made great strides in cleaner energy solutions. We're going to address the climate. It makes sense for us to have policies that reduce emissions that reduce the pollutants that are in the air to reduce the particles that cause massive health problems around the world he said. Common sense tells you bring the cleaner burning fuels bring the things that bring the emissions down. That's just common sense. Perry said the administration is reducing emissions claiming without evidence or specificity that countries in the Paris climate agreement with their hair on fire when President Donald Trump announced his intention to pull out two years ago are not doing as much as the U.S. Trump has repeatedly over the years expressed skepticism about the role humans play in climate change. In 2017 then Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt told CNBC he does not believe carbon dioxide is a primary contributor. On Monday Trump talked about his administration's environmental record saying America can lead the world in fighting pollution at the same time it promotes fossil fuels. Since taking office Trump has dismantled scores of environmental rules. The U.S. has become the world's biggest oil and gas producer over the last couple of years thanks mainly to a technology led drilling boom. During the first round of the second Democratic presidential debate on Tuesday evening the 2020 hopefuls on the stage all agreed on the need to urgently address climate change but clashed over how to do it. They also talked about their own proposals to curb what they see as the man made causes as well as the merits of the Green New Deal unveiled in February by Democrats New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey.	True	False	False	True	True
DETROIT Theresa Landrum survived her battle with cancer. But her parents didnt. Neither did at least 10 other people who lived on her block. Such is life and death in the 48217 Michigans most polluted ZIP code home to automotive plants the states only oil refinery and more than 8200 mostly working class African Americans. On Tuesday Landrum a retired General Motors factory worker marched downtown with as many as 2000 fellow Detroiters to the steps of the Fox Theatre where 10 Democratic presidential hopefuls were scheduled to face off in thesecond round of primary debates. The protest marked one of the most confrontational demands for a Green New Deal in months as local groups took up the mantle from national climate campaigners which have shifted their efforts to focus on demanding a climate only Democratic primary debate. Amid the gleaming towers of automotive giants whose vehicles now spew the majority of Americas climate changing gases the demonstrators called for a future in which the health of the planet and its people guides industrial planning andin which the Motor City sheds its association with combustion engines. We are being robbed and pillaged by industry Landrum said her voice rising to a preachers righteous crescendo. Then you know what we get? A few job promises and they get to pollute as much as they want. The three word slogan surged into Americas political lexicon last November when activists with the youth led Sunrise Movement occupied then incoming House Speaker Nancy Pelosis office demanding Democrats champion climate policy that actually matches the scope of the crisis. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. took heed. In February she and Sen. Ed Markey D Mass. introduced a resolution that outlined the core tenets of a Green New Deal. Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warrens growing inventory of policy proposals includes plans to decarbonize the military by 2030 halt fossil fuel leasing on public lands and put new restrictions on businesses ability to influence lawmakers. California Sen. Kamala Harris the only candidate to bring up the Green New Deal in the first round of debates co sponsored a climate justice bill with Ocasio Cortez this week that lays the groundwork for federal climate spending to benefit poor minority communities who disproportionately suffer the impacts of pollution. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders who has yet to release a comprehensive climate plan has positioned himself as the standard bearer of former President Franklin D. Roosevelts economic ideals and a vocal proponent of the Green New Deal movement. Climate change received a combined 15 minutes of airtime during last months debates in Miami woefully insufficient given the scope of the crisis but significant progress for an issue that was virtually ignored in the 2016 election. But because the events were held in a city threatened by rising sea levels debate questions focused on the magnitude of the global warming crisis and the risks posed by runaway emissions. The Frontline Detroit Coalition the alliance of a dozen local environmental groups and unions who organized Tuesdays march struck a markedly different tone. If Miami is a city in need of salvation from rising seas Detroit in their vision could be the savior. Ahead of the march musicians and activists took a makeshift stage in Cass Park a historic green space where last months record heatwave left the grass crisp and brown and led crowds chanting build a new economy and invest in our community. The Green New Deal is a platform an empty box. Its not going to be fully ready until it begins to reflect the kind of environmental and energy issues that our people are concerned about said Darryl Jordan 65 the co director of the East Michigan Environmental Action Council. Were not in a state where the differences between Democrats and Republicans are that radical. If there is poetry in demanding a Green New Deal in the city that birthed the automotive age the citys union legacy gives the call real teeth. Powerful construction unions that depend on the fossil fuel industry for lucrative jobs have publicly opposed the Green New Deal though the movement has garnered growing labor support including an official endorsement from the Service Employees International Union last month.	True	False	False	True	True
While speaking in Kentucky at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Pruitt said he will sign the proposed rule repealing Obama's plan Tuesday. When you think about what that rule meant it was about picking winners and losers. Regulatory power should not be used by any regulatory body to pick winners and losers he said at the event. The past administration was using every bit of power and authority to use the EPA to pick winners and losers and how we generate electricity in this country. That's wrong. Under the interpretation proposed in this notice the CPP exceeds the EPA's statutory authority and would be repealed the proposal reads. The EPA welcomes comment on the legal interpretation addressed in this proposed rulemaking. The proposal also says the EPA has yet to determine whether it will create an additional rule on the regulation of greenhouse gases. first reported on the repeal proposal. first reported on the repeal proposal. Bloomberg News first reported on the repeal proposal. The Clean Power Plan requires states to meet specific carbon emission reduction standards based on their individual energy consumption. The plan also includes an incentive program for states to get a head start on meeting standards on early deployment of renewable energy and low income energy efficiency. Under President Barack Obama the EPA estimated the Clean Power Plan could prevent 2700 to 6600 premature deaths and 140000 to 150000 asthma attacks in children. When asked earlier this year on Fox News about the health consequences of doing away with the Clean Power Plan Pruitt ducked the question and focused on how the plan would cost jobs. He argued the plan was bureaucratic overreach. As much as we want to see progress made with clean air and clean water with an understanding that we can also grow jobs we have to do so within the framework of what Congress has passed Pruitt said. Former EPA employees have reacted harshly to the planned repeal of the rule. Obama's EPA administrator Gina McCarthy called the proposal just plain backwards. A proposal to repeal the Clean Power Plan without any time line or even a commitment to propose a rule to reduce carbon pollution isn't a step forward it's a wholesale retreat from EPA's legal scientific and moral obligation to address the threats of climate change McCarthy said in a statement Friday. Environmental advocacy groups quickly blasted Pruitt's decision with many vowing to fight the measure in court. Now the public has an opportunity to weigh in as EPA is required to accept public comment on the proposed repeal and a discussion paper on a replacement Rhea Suh president of the Natural Resources Defense Council said in a statement Monday. In addition NRDC expects to take EPA to court when the Clean Power Plan repeal is made final. When reports of the EPA's planned move began to be reported over the weekend Environmental Defense Fund President Fred Krupp said repealing the plan without replacing it with any protections from climate destabilizing pollution would fail to protect Americans from harmful pollution designated under the Clean Air Act. And Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club said Trump and Pruitt are launching one of the most egregious attacks on public health and climate safety. No matter who is in the White House the EPA is legally required to limit dangerous carbon pollution and the Clean Power Plan is an achievable affordable way to do that Brune said in a Monday news release. It is a key element in continuing the progress moving toward clean energy and retiring coal. Former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg whose philanthropy said it would donate 15 million toward supporting operations of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change after the Trump administration announced intentions to withdraw from the Paris climate accord tweeted his criticism of the repeal proposal Monday. The EPA can repeal the Clean Power Plan but not the laws of economics Bloomberg tweeted. This won't revive coal or stop the US from reaching our Paris goal.	True	False	False	True	False
Advocates of man made climate change believe that it causes strong storms rising tides and hot temperatures and that black communities are disproportionately hurt by the effects of global warming. That was the topic at a recent roundtable discussion in Washington DC where Bloomberg Environment reported that activists at the event said Congress needed to take action. People of color have always been on the front line of this movement Alaina Beverly a former Obama White House urban affairs official who is now vice president for urban affairs at the University of Chicagos Office of Federal Relations in Washington said at the event. Were hit first and hit worst. This is our issue Beverly said. Bloomberg Environment reported on how blacks are allegedly suffering from climate change related hardships Most of the worst effects of climate change are hittingand lingering inpoor black neighborhoods in the South according to the Rev. Leo Woodberry executive director of the New Alpha Community Development Corporation in Florence S.C. In coastal South Carolina for example residents in largely black towns have been told they wont be eligible for flood insurance if they dont elevate their homes but a survey of local engineering groups showed the cost starts at 20000 for a 900 square foot house Woodberry said. In New York City many residents who die from heat stroke are African American Peggy Shepard executive director of West Harlem Environmental Action Inc. also known as WE ACT for Environmental Justice said at a Sept. 12 roundtable hosted by the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation where Beverly and Woodberry also spoke. This is about social disruption Shepard said. Extreme heat is killing thousands every year. Bloomberg Environment cited a University of California at Berkeley study that said blacks are 52 percent more likely than whites to live in so called urban heat islands where the sun beams down on brick concrete and asphalt. Theres no question that this is a topic area that black politicians including the CBC Congressional Black Caucus have not focused on as much Thomas A. LaVeist dean of Tulane Universitys School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine said in an interview. And I think its because the stereotype is that the environment is about tree hugging or saving exotic birds. Members of the Congressional Black Caucus say theyve heard the call and are working on solutions Bloomberg Environment reported. The caucus is made up of 55 African American members of the House and Senate. I think were going to be energetic in supporting any legislation that is aimed at improving the environment but I also have to tell you how congested the major issues have become Rep. Emanuel Cleaver D MO said in the Bloomberg Environment article. Cleaver said lawmakers could add language to the Federal Emergency Management Agencys FEMA budget to put resources in poor black communities and the National Flood Insurance Program could add more protections for black communities. Bloomberg Environment reported that some are already putting out legislation with this goal in mind including Reps. Maxine Waters D CA Raul Grijalva D AZ and A. Donald McEachin D VA. For African Americans and people living in urban poor communities it provides them with an empowerment tool to enforce the law to demand action and to try to get remediation done Grijalva told Bloomberg Environment. Separately Rep. Kathy Castor D Fla. chairwoman of the House Select Committee on the Climate Crisis is working on a climate bill to be rolled out in March that among other things will aim to help communities of color living near pollution sources Bloomberg Environment reported. Many House Democrats think theres value in putting these measures up for a vote even if they have little chance in the Senate now to send a message. The article also quoted Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D NY about her Green New Deal resolution that puts social justice even above climate change. I think its backwards and shortsighted to say Well lets just throw a bunch of solar panels on everyones roof and call it a day Ocasio Cortez said. Because you cannot build a winning political coalition to fight climate change on just technocratic solutions. By fighting for the actual justice and livelihood of working people you are going to create the political energy to actually address climate change she said.	False	False	False	False	False
Ivanka Trump on Thursday retweeted a White House message hailing the administration as a driver for science and Twitter was agog. The initial tweet was posted the White House Office of Science and Technology after it issued a report titled Science Technology Highlights in the Second Year of the Trump Administration. On Wednesday The Washington Post reported that Trump was convening a panel the Presidential Committee on Climate Security to question the findings of federal scientists and experts on climate change andcounter red alert warningsfrom the scientific community. President Donald Trumps pick to head the committee William Happer once compared the demonization of CO2 to how Jews were characterized in Nazi Germany. Happer who has no experience in climatology has said having higher atmospheric carbon dioxide levels is beneficial. Trump said late last year that he didnt believe a dire report by federal agencies about climate change declaring Were the cleanest weve ever been. His run ins with climate science were repeatedly highlighted in responses to the retweet by thefirst daughter and senior White House adviser. For the past two years the Trump Administration has been an active and meaningful driver for science and technology policy in America. pic.twitter.comJQkiWI4Dx2 White House OSTP February 21 2019 Donald Trump has said he will pull the US out of the Paris international climate agreement! taken steps to cut back the US Environmental Protection Agency is on record saying that global warming is a hoax invented by the Chinese to attack US manufacturing...... Dawn Amos meh my dogs are the boss of me February 21 2019 You can't believe science in a selective manner and claim to be pro science. That is hypocrisy. Robert Johnson February 21 2019 When you continue to deny climate science you cant make the claim that you are a driver of science policy. No more gaslighting. merryterry February 21 2019	True	False	False	False	False
An extensive report from the Environmental Protection Agency found that including ethanol into the U.S. gas supply is wreaking havoc on the atmosphere and soil. In a study titled Biofuels and the Environment The Second Triennial Report to Congress the Environmental Protection Agency EPA determined thatethanol derived from corn and soybeans is causing serious harm to the environment.Water soil and air quality were all found to be adversely affected by biofuel mandates. Evidence since enactment of the Energy Independence and Security Act suggests an increase in acreage planted with soybeans and corn with strong indications from observed changes in land use that some of this increase is a consequence of increased biofuel production read a portion of the 159 page report. The ethanol mandate has negatively effected water quality with greater biofuel production resulting in more harmful algae blooms and hypoxia. While most algae is harmless to water some forms such as the kind produced in Lake Eerie from biofuel feedstock has emitted toxic chemicals into the water. This harmful algae can consume the oxygen in the water a process known as hypoxia killing other wildlife. Increased irrigation fueled by growing demand for ethanol has also taken a toll on the ground with the report finding grassland to annual crop conversion negatively impacts soil quality because it increases erosion and the loss of soil nutrients. Essentially the study found that biofuel mandates are boosting production of corn and soybeans. Large scale production of these crops is causing environmental degradation.The EPA also found that at least in some instances using ethanol in lieu of gasoline resulted in worse air emissions. Air quality modeling suggests that production and use of ethanol as fuel to displace gasoline is likely to increase such air pollutants as PM2.5 ozone and SOx in some locations read a section of the report pertaining to air quality. While traditional gasoline contains more CO2 ethanol based fuels have more nitrogen oxides NOx which can be more harmful to human health. NOx can exacerbate asthma by causing inflammation of the respiratory airwaves with long term exposure resulting in decreased lung function The mandate in reference concerns the Renewable Fuel Standard RFS a 2005 law that requires oil refineries include a certain amount of ethanol in their fuel mix. The law was passed with the intention of aiding in climate change efforts. The RFS has proven to be controversial with oil producers deriding the mandate as costly and unneeded. Corn growers however support the mandate as it drives demand for the product. RELATED New EPA Chief Will Continue Scott Pruitts War With The Corn Lobby During his time leading the EPA Scott Pruitt became an adversary of ethanol proponents after granting more RFS waivers and pushing for a rollback of the law altogether. Its not immediately clear how the Trump administration will handle the RFS debate moving forward. Acting EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler has suggested he will continue seeking changes to the mandate but President Donald Trump told an Iowa crowd in July that the EPA may soon allow for more ethanol to be included in gas. The EPA study published on June 29 came after a long delay. Federal law calls for the EPA to conduct a study on the Renewable Fuel Standard every three years but the government was four years late this go around. The agencys previous ethanol study was published in 2011. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	True	True	True	True
The president of an island nation on the frontline of climate change says it is in a fight to the death after freak waves inundated the capital. Powerful swells averaging 5m 16ft washed across the capital of the Marshall Islands Majuro last week. But President Hilda Heine said the Pacific nation had been fighting rising tides even before last week's disaster. Political leaders and climate diplomats are meeting in Madrid for two weeks of talks amid a growing sense of crisis. This conference of the parties or COP25 was due to be held in Chile but was cancelled by the government due to weeks of civil disturbances. Spain then stepped in to host the event which will see 29000 attendees over the two weeks of talks. Climate change Where we are in seven charts The world's average surface temperature is rising rapidly because human activities release greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide CO2. These gases trap heat in the atmosphere a bit like the glass roof of a greenhouse. At the meeting Ms Heine commented Water covers much of our land at one or other point of the year as we fight rising tides. As we speak hundreds of people have evacuated their homes after large waves caused the ocean to inundate parts of our capital in Majuro last week. She added It's a fight to the death for anyone not prepared to flee. As a nation we refuse to flee. But we also refuse to die. Ms Heine is not alone in the view that small nations like the Marshall Islands face an imminent existential threat. At the Madrid summit ambassador Lois Young from the Alliance of Small Island States AOSIS which represents low lying coastal countries and small island nations launched a rebuke to the world's big polluters. We are disappointed by inadequate action by developed countries and outraged by the dithering and retreat of one of the most culpable polluters from the Paris Agreement she said. In the midst of a climate emergency retreat and inaction are tantamount to sanctioning ecocide. They reflect profound failure to honour collective global commitment to protect the most vulnerable. With our very existence at stake COP 25 must demonstrate unprecedented ambition to avert ecocide. The COP25 meeting will aim to step up ambition so that all countries increase their national commitments to cut emissions. The meeting follows on the heels of three UN reports which stressed the increased urgency of limiting dangerous climate change. According to UN Secretary General Antnio Guterres the point of no return is no longer over the horizon. Speaking ahead of the meeting he said political leaders had to respond to the imminent climate crisis. In the crucial 12 months ahead it is essential that we secure more ambitious national commitments particularly from the main emitters to immediately start reducing greenhouse gas emissions at a pace consistent to reaching carbon neutrality by 2050. We simply have to stop digging and drilling and take advantage of the vast possibilities offered by renewable energy and nature based solutions Mr Guterres said. Almost every country in the world has now signed and ratified the Paris climate agreement and under the terms of the pact they will all have to put new climate pledges on the table before the end of 2020. This meeting in Madrid signals the start of a frantic 12 months of negotiations that will culminate in Glasgow with COP26 in November next year. Some 50 world leaders are expected to attend the meeting in the Spanish capital but US President Donald Trump will not be among them. The US became a signatory to the landmark Paris climate agreement in April 2016 under the Obama administration. But President Trump has said the accord which has been signed by more than 190 countries would lead to lost jobs and lower wages for American workers. Last month he began the process of withdrawing from the Paris deal. However Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi will attend the conference with a congressional delegation. While her presence has been welcomed US environmentalists want to see concrete steps on climate. While it's great Speaker Pelosi is coming to Madrid in place of Trump symbolic gestures are no substitute for bold action said Jean Su from the US Center for Biological Diversity. America remains the number one historic contributor to the climate emergency and even Democratic politicians have never committed to taking responsibility for our fair share. Underlining the real world impacts of climate change a report from the charity Save the Children says that what it calls climate shocks are threatening tens of millions of people in East and Southern Africa. The charity says 33 million people are at emergency levels of food insecurity due to cyclones and droughts. More than half of these are believed to be children. The situation has been made worse because the two strongest cyclones ever to hit the African continent affected the same region just weeks apart. Cyclone Idai struck Mozambique Zimbabwe and Malawi last March while six weeks later Cyclone Kenneth slammed Mozambique with millions affected by flooding. The climate crisis is happening here and it's killing people forcing them from their homes and ruining children's chance of a future said Ian Vale from Save the Children.	False	False	False	True	False
Washington CNN Toy gun grasped firmly in his hand and a grin plastered wide across his face while he played Big Buck Hunter Pro Ryan Zinke could have been a kid at an arcade. But the Interior secretary and former congressman was actually in the department cafeteria showing off the arcade game installed to commemorate hunting season. To highlight contributions 2 conservation I installed Big Buck Hunter in the employee cafeteria. Get excited for season! Zinke tweeted from his personal account Tuesday. But Zinke is not toying around when it comes to his support of hunters and fishers. Hunting in the United States is down. A US Fish and Wildlife Service survey released last week found that there are 2.2 million fewer hunters in America now than in 2011. And the new administration is poised to change that. On his first day in office back in March Zinke issued two orders one which overturned a recent ban of lead ammunition and fish tackle on Fish and Wildlife Service lands and waters. Last week Zinke issued another secretarial order designed to increase access to various public lands for hunters and fishers. What really kind of expedited this whole thing was last week the US Fish and Wildlife put out a survey saying that hundreds of Americans were enjoying the outdoors but within that survey they found that hunting was down Heather Swift Interior spokesperson said when asked about last week's secretarial order. And the big thing that the secretary hears over and over again is that people just don't have access to land. Mr. Zinke was the pick of the litter not the best litter ever but he was definitely the pick and that's why we advocated for him and that's why Jr. advocated for him as well said Land Tawney the president of the Montana based Backcountry Hunters Anglers a non profit sportsmen's organization. Zinke and the Interior have recently made a big show of their support of hunting groups. In addition to the Buck Hunter game he gifted Interior employees the department declared Thursday that October would be National Hunting and Fishing Month. The declaration also generated the support of the National Rifle Association. Hunters anglers and target shooters are the best conservationists who contribute so much through the Pittman Robertson and Dingell Johnson Acts said Richard Childress NRA vice president. Last year they contributed 1.2 billion toward conservation and protecting our natural resources. We need more mentors taking young people out and teaching them to hunt and fish so I'm glad Secretary Zinke is promoting hunting and fishing at the federal level. With what's leaked it's super troubling. Any reduction on these monuments is an attack on the Antiquities Act said Tawney. All monuments are at risk now. They can become political footballs in our eyes. Conservationists who want to expand their access to hunting on public park lands and at monuments are as weary of opening up national park land to fossil fuel industries as environmentalists are since both value sustaining the land as is. We can have all the access we want to a concrete parking lot but that access doesn't mean anything if that fish and wildlife habitat isn't there said Tawney. Another pro hunting group says what they are seeing within Interior is a fight between access and conservation. On the access front the department has been good. Access to our own public lands is a lot harder today than it ever has been and that is in part introduced with the decline in hunting numbers we've seen said Whit Fosburgh president and CEO of the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership a non profit coalition of conservation organizations and outdoor related businesses. On the conservation side however I think it's a much less rosy picture Fosburgh said. It's been a lot more about expanding development opening up to oil and gas. There has been no proactive conservation vision espoused for our public lands. Fosburgh said that the hunting community started getting a little bit critical of Zinke after he first announced the National Monument Review earlier this year. And he's skeptical of just how far the secretarial order will go. They use hunting and fishing for an excuse for our changes in monuments he said. All of the ones under review already allow hunting and fishing very clearly. Fosberg's criticism is similar to what environmental groups said following the secretarial order last week. Don't be fooled the Trump Administration is pretending to be granting hunting and fishing rights that are already guaranteed by law and policy said a statement from the Center for American Progress a left leaning thing tank. The real story is that with this announcement the Trump administration is trying to create a distraction from their plans to dramatically reduce the size of America's national monuments which would be the largest elimination of protections on wildlife habitat in US history. Nevertheless Fosburgh said most pro hunting and conservation minded groups are still hoping for the best with the Trump administration. We're very prepared and we have been from day one. We supported his nomination and we are prepared to work with Secretary Zinke he said. We're not going to just say it's a lost cause in September of the first year of the administration.	False	False	True	False	False
Scott Pruitt who on Thursday resigned as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency was a firm favourite of Donald Trump. But Pruitt was plagued by scandal and faltered in carrying out the presidents agenda of peeling back clean air and water regulations. His replacement is likely to be far more adept. While Pruitt was a bte noire to environmentalists for his zeal in targeting Obama era rules and his dismissal of climate science his attempts at deregulation were regularly framed as rushed and clumsy as they floundered in the courts. Andrew Wheeler Pruitts replacement at least in the interim could be a more effective weapon for Trump. A consummate Washington insider and a former coal lobbyist he will likely approach his work with the same ideology as Pruitt but without the flamboyance and ethical scandals a far more dangerous prospect for those aghast at the Trump administrations attitude to the environment. Pruitts agenda was really Trumps agenda and I think Andrew is as fully committed to advancing it as Pruitt was Myron Ebell who led the EPA transition team for Trump and has known Wheeler for two decades told the Guardian. He knows much more about managing the agency and the technical side of the environmental statutes that EPA is charged with enforcing than Pruitt. Undoing Barack Obamas regulatory onslaught at EPA is a key part of the presidents economic revival agenda and therefore Wheeler will be a point man for Trump just as Pruitt was. For opponents of the president the prospect is a daunting one. Scott Pruitt was the most scandal plagued cabinet member in an administration rife with corruption said Christy Goldfuss an environment advisor to Obama who is now at the Center for American Progress. There is no reason to believe that Wheeler will fix the problems left behind and put childrens health ahead of his industry friends. Confirmed by the Senate as deputy EPA administrator in April Wheeler is well versed in the machinations of the federal government. He spent four years at the EPAs office of pollution prevention in the Bush and Clinton administrators before working for Senator James Inhofe an Oklahoma Republican whose vocal rejection of climate change science involved theatrics such as bringing a snowball on to the Senate floor. Wheeler then became a lobbyist at Faegre Baker Daniels where he represented Murray Energy a major coal company until August 2017. The firm put to Trump a wish list of environmental rollbacks Wheeler helped in its attempts to fight limits on toxic emissions such as mercury. While working for Marco Rubios presidential campaign in February 2016 Wheeler wrote a now deleted Facebook post in which he called Trump a PR person and a bully which he said should alone should disqualify him from the White House. That has not hindered his rise in the Trump administration. Shortly after his nomination in October Wheeler sent an email to Ryan Jackson Pruitts chief of staff with a link to an article by the satirical website the Onion that was headlined EPA Promotes Pulsating Black Sludge to Deputy Director. Welcome pulsating black sludge Jackson responded in emails released under freedom of information laws. I guess Im going to have to get the cleaning crews to come in more often. Wheeler insisted he didnt want Pruitts job. I could have put my hat in the ring for the administrator he said in June. I wasnt interested in that. I am still not interested in that. Now that he is in the role he said he didnt covet he will be tasked with completing the job of dismantling environmental and climate regulations. Pruitt went about it enthusiastically but ran into legal action launched by states such as New York and California as well as environmental groups. Pruitts attempt to halt restrictions on emissions of methane a powerful greenhouse gas was stymied by the courts as were proposed delays to stricter limits of lead in paint and hazy ozone in urban areas. Trumps EPA has also had difficulty in coming up with robust reasons why fuel efficiency rules for cars should be watered down or what will replace the clean power plan given that the agency is legally obliged to force down greenhouse gas emissions. Wheeler with his knowledge of the rule making process will help manage such reversals while avoiding headlines over 1500 fountain pens Trump Hotel mattresses or Chick fil A franchises. He is low key and likes to keep a low profile Ebell said. He may have to do more public speaking than he wants to. A senior EPA official who did not wish to be named said I think it will be night and day with Wheeler or at least night and late afternoon. He will talk to us. Hes a human being not a politician. Wheeler is likely to maintain Pruitts close ties to industry however. Under Trump the fossil fuel industry has wielded unusual influence over the agency that supposedly regulates it and beleaguered staff fret that its public health mission is at risk of being buried. Pruitts removal is just the first step in restoring a strong EPA that gets back to its mission to protect public health and our environment said Carol Browner a long serving EPA chief in Bill Clintons administration. Congress must ensure the next EPA administrator is not another industry insider.	True	False	False	True	True
A Trump administration presentation extolling the virtues of fossil fuels at the UN climate talks in Poland has been met with guffaws of laughter and chants of Shame on you. Mondays protest came during a panel discussion by the official US delegation which used its only public appearance to promote the unapologetic utilisation of coal oil and gas. Although these industries are the main source of the carbon emissions that are causing global warming the speakers boasted the US would expand production for the sake of global energy security and planned a new fleet of coal plants with technology it hoped to export to other countries. The event featured prominent cheerleaders for fossil fuels and nuclear power including Wells Griffith Donald Trumps adviser on global energy and climate Steve Winberg the assistant secretary for fossil energy at the energy department and Rich Powell the executive director of the ClearPath Foundation a non profit organisation focused on conservative clean energy. The only non American was Patrick Suckling the ambassador for the environment in Australias coal enthusiast government. None of the US participants mentioned climate change or global warming focusing instead of innovation and entrepreneurship in the technological development of nuclear power clean coal and carbon capture and storage. Ten minutes into Griffiths opening speech he was interrupted by a sudden sustained loud volley of laughter by several dozen protesters that was then followed by a single shout of Its not funny and then a series of chants of Keep it in the ground and Shame on you. Several campaigners read statements. There is no such thing as clean coal. Coal is deadly from the beginning to the end. They talk about the life cycle of coal I talk about it as a death march. My father died of black lung and I am in this struggle with others whose fathers and husbands are dying of black lung right now said Teri Blanton of Kentuckians for the Commonwealth which represents Appalachian coal workers in North America. After the protesters were led away by security guards Griffiths said In the US our policy is not to keep it in the ground but to use it as cleanly and efficiently as possible. This statement was contradicted by climate analysts who noted the US environment agency estimates that 1400 more deaths per year will result from Trumps proposal to replace the Clean Power Act. Its ludicrous for Trump officials to claim that they want to clean up fossil fuels while dismantling standards that would do just that said Dan Lashof the director of the World Resources Institute. Since taking office this administration has proposed to roll back measures to cut methane leaks from oil and gas operations made it easier for companies to dump coal ash into drinking water and just days ago proposed easing carbon pollution rules for new coal fired power plants. Griffith boasted the US had the largest coal reserves in the world and iwas producing more petroleum than ever. To achieve economic growth and eradicate poverty all energy uses are important and they will be utilised unapologetically he said. Echoing a claim often made by Trump Griffiths said the US would not be subject to agreements that hamstrung domestic growth while allowing China to operate with high emissions. This was the second consecutive year that the Trump team was heckled after promoting fossil fuels and nuclear power at the climate talks underscoring how the US position has shifted since the president took power in 2017. The US was a key player in forging the Paris agreement in 2015 but its standing has steadily eroded since. In 2017 Trump announced he would pull the US out of the global accord. This year his representatives have taken a still more destructive stance by aligning with Russia Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to try to downgrade a key report by the worlds scientists that warned of the dangers of global warming moving beyond 1.5C above pre industrial levels. None of the panelists would be drawn on the study but Griffith spoke out against alarmism that he claimed displaced pragmatic solutions to address environmental concerns with prescriptive regulations that put jobs at risk and raised costs for consumers. In fact scientists say their forecasts about climate impacts have been too conservative while economists say the shift to renewables has resulted in cheaper energy for many users. Winberg said the US government was planning to support a new fleet of small modular coal plants that he claimed would be energy efficient and have near zero emissions if combined with carbon capture technology. After initial development in the US he said they could be exported to other countries. They offer opportunity for developing nations to access tomorrows coal technology to improve energy security he said. He also proposed more pipelines to oil fields in the Gulf of Mexico. Despite this public commitment the US use of coal is declining because renewables are cheaper according to Nathaniel Keohane the senior vice president for the Environmental Defense Fund nonprofit group. Trump is playing politics but its not changing the facts on the ground he said. Coal usage in the US just hit a 39 year low. If we really want to protect our economy well move aggressively toward 100 clean energy. An alternative non official US delegation has backed a faster transition to renewables. Made up of city and state level governments business executives and religious leaders the Were still in group is staging dozens of events in a bid to show action is still possible without White House support. Nonetheless many observers at the official US panel were ashamed at the position of their federal government. I was completely embarrassed to be an American said Leo McNeil Woodberry of the Climate Action Network. Everything they proposed was absolutely wrong. I cant believe they are putting profits over the planet and profits over people.	True	False	False	False	True
Aswildfirescontinue torageacross the Westduring a brutally hotsummer on Thursday the US Forest Service released itsnewforest fire management strategy thatfocuses on science and thechanging climate. The report comes at the same time the president has sent out misleading tweets aboutthe causes and solutions of Californias wildfires and as Donald Trumps Interior head Ryan Zinke has blamed fires on environmentalists denied climate change science and called for more logging. Zinke has said the forest fires have nothing to do with climate change and recently called the left angry intolerant and uninformed on the environment and public land management according to the Huffington Post. But the Department of the Interior disputes this in an email to Mother Jones saying The Secretary addressed the correlation between climate and fires dozens of times over the 48 hours he was in California and all week in interviews since returning. Additionally in his op ed the Secretary directly addressed longer hotter drier seasons in the opening paragraphs.Its true that Zinke changed his tuneafter his earlier comments Zinke told reportersThursday that climate change has played a role in the fires and that global temperatures are rising. Trump weighed in on Californias fires on Twitter earlier this month with tweets that were immediately described as false and misleadingsaying California wildfires are being magnified made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which arent allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilizedMust also tree clear to stop fire spreading! Mother Jonesasked an expert to decipher this nonsense and you can read his analysis here. But today the Forest Servicewhich is part of the Department of Agriculture released anew 28 page fire management strategy. In itthe service writes Of particular concern are longer fire seasons and the rising size and severity of wildfires along with the growing risk to lives homes natural resources and other values. The report also includes a map of changes in fire weather seasons in the United States between 1979 and 2017 a phenomenon scientists warn is largely due to climate change Though the Forest Service doesnt mention the words climate change specifically aspast versions of the plan have it points out that changes in temperature precipitation patterns and other environmental conditions are all driving factors behind wildfires and other environmental challenges. And in the Appendix the Forest Service writes effects of a changing climate are a general threat to forest health. Its a breath of fresh air to see science instead of politics inserted into forest and fire management saidKirin Kennedy associatelegislative director for lands and wildlife at the Sierra Club in a statement. The longer Ryan Zinke continues to ignore these facts the greater the risks to homes and families.	False	False	False	False	False
Warren promised in a tweet Friday to sign an executive order that puts a total moratorium on all new fossil fuel leases for drilling offshore and on public lands and vowed to ban fracking everywhere Warrens pledge to ban fracking follows Sen. Bernie Sanders I VT call urging fellow Democrat candidates to support a fracking ban on public and private lands. Fracking is a danger to our water supply. Its a danger to the air we breathe. It causes earthquakes. Its highly explosive. Safe fracking is like clean coal pure fiction Sanders said in a statement Wednesday. But most importantly methane from natural gas contributes to climate change and is setting us on a path to disaster he added. When we are in the White House we will end the era of fossil fuels and that includes fracking Ten Democrat candidates participated in CNNs seven hour climate change town hall Wednesday and manysignaled support for the implementation of a carbon tax as well as plastic straw bans actions on meat consumption and the end of fracking. Theres no question Im in favor of banning fracking Sen. Kamala Harris D CA said during the town hall. Starting with what we can do on day one around public lands and then there has to be legislation but yes. This is something Ive taken on in California I have a history of working on this issue she added. Sen. Cory Booker D NJ said he would ban fracking right away on public lands. Warren released her comprehensive climate change proposal inspired by Gov. Jay Inslee D ahead of CNNs town hall. It called for the decarbonization of the economy and100 percent clean energy over the next decade. While Warren did not go as far as Sanders in calling for the complete public ownership of utilities she said she will tell companies that use carbon based fuel that they are done by 2035. Im perfectly willing to take on giant corporations. I think Ive been known to do that once or twice. But for me I think the way we get there is we just say sorry guys but by 2035 youre done she said during CNNs town hall.	True	False	False	True	True
President Donald Trump picked West Virginia to announce his plan to reduce pollution controls on coal fired power plants which is no surprise. West Virginia loves coal and coal miners love Trump but what both of them may not love is the fact that a reduction in pollution controls is going to greatly increase the number of people who die prematurely from pollution created by burning coal. It will also greatly increase the number of people who get sick with serious illnesses such as heart and lung problems. When he made his announcement somehow Trump left out those details of the life threatening side effects of using coal to create electrical energy. Even though they will be getting sick and dying at higher rates it is not expected that Trumps actions will reduce his popularity among West Virginians. An analysis done by his own Environmental Protection Agency EPA concludes that the rollback of Obama era pollution controls will lead to many more people dying and suffering health problems that they otherwise would not have. Clean air controls since the 1980s stopped the columns of black soot that used to rise from coal smokestacks in the region. The clean air rules reduced the number of people dying from coal fired power plants substantially. Technology has changed and now pollutants rise from smokestacks as gases before solidifying into invisible particles small enough to pass through lungs and into bloodstreams. An EPA analysis says those pollutants would increase under Trumps plan when compared to what would happen under the Obama rules. This will result in many thousands of more heart attacks asthma problems and other illnesses than would have happened without Trumps new rules. The EPA says up to 1500 more people will die each year under Trumps plan. And the areas that will be hit the hardest are in Trump country the coal mining regions of West Virginia. There could be dozens of new deaths and hundreds of new serious illnesses each year because of Trumps plan. Obamas Clean Power Plan targeted climate changing carbon dioxide and would have curbed harmful emissions of carbon dioxide and other pollutants from the coal fired power plants. It would have increased federal regulation of emissions from the nations electrical grid and broadly promoted natural gas solar power and other cleaner energy. Trumps Affordable Clean Energy program will dismantle President Barack Obamas 2015 Clean Power Plan which has not yet been implemented due to court battles. Trumps plan will give up much of the federal oversight of existing coal fired power plants. Not only that but the government will no longer promote cleaner energy. Individual states will decide how much to regulate coal power plants in their own states. At his public announcement Trump said Im getting rid of some of these ridiculous rules and regulations which are killing our companies and our jobs. There was no mention of the increases in harmful emissions that would result compared to the Obama plan or the health risks. In West Virginia coal is popular and politicians who support coal get elected. Vivian Stockman of the Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition was protesting outside Trumps rally. Our state is beholden to coal. Our politicians are beholden to coal. Meanwhile our people are being poisoned she said.	False	False	False	False	False
Environmental groups plan to sue the Trump administration over offshore drilling tests launching a legal fight against a proposal that has drawn bipartisan opposition along the Atlantic Coast two people with direct knowledge of the pending litigation told The Associated Press. The lawsuit which aims to stop the issuance of permits for the use of seismic air guns will be filed by a coalition of environmental groups in federal court in South Carolina on Tuesday according to the individuals. They spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly before the suit is filed. The Trump administration has authorized five such permits which aim to find oil and gas formations deeply below the Atlantic Ocean floor from Delaware to central Florida an area where seismic surveys haven't been conducted in decades. The blasts are conducted in preparation for potential offshore drilling which the administration has proposed to expand from the Atlantic to the Arctic and Pacific oceans. The five year plan would open 90 percent of the nation's offshore reserves to private development. Survey vessels will be required to have observers on board to listen and watch for marine life and alert operators if a protected species comes within a certain distance officials have said and acoustic monitoring will be used to detect those animals swimming beneath the ocean surface. Surveys would be shut down when certain sensitive species or groups are observed and penalties could be imposed for vessels that strike marine animals. The precautions aren't enough for environmental groups who have said the blasts can disturb marine mammals. Industry groups say the surveys have been conducted around the world for decades with little adverse impact. The drilling issue has created strange political bedfellows along the East Coast with Democrats and Republicans in some areas united over the issue. In South Carolina's 1st Congressional District Republican Katie Arrington a supporter of President Donald Trump who initially said she stood by his plans to open up Atlantic Coast drilling later backed off that support amid a growing wave of drilling opposition in the coastal district she aimed to represent. Arrington ultimately lost the general election to Joe Cunningham a Democrat staunchly opposed to drilling who collected support from coastal Republican mayors. Voters said they had been turned off by what they saw as Arrington's flip flop on the issue and they turned instead to Cunningham's consistency. On Monday Cunningham told the AP that he backed the legal effort which would pair with legislative action he plans to take up in the U.S. House. I'm going to go up to D.C. and fight like hell Cunningham said. These lawsuits are one tool in our bag that we're going to use. South Carolina Gov. Henry McMaster's early support of Trump's candidacy hasn't stopped him from opposing the president's drilling plans. Earlier this year McMaster was among state executives to request a drilling waiver seeking the same sort of promise already given to Florida Gov. Rick Scott another Trump ally. Since then officials from the Department of the Interior have said Secretary Ryan Zinke's promise to Florida was not a formal action and will instead be part of the department's analysis as it completes its plans. In February McMaster met with Zinke at the Governor's Mansion in Columbia. This week McMaster spokesman Brian Symmes told The Associated Press that the governor and the state's top prosecutor both Republicans would continue to work on a plan to keep drilling away from the state. The governor and Attorney General Alan Wilson have resolved to continue working together to determine the best path forward Symmes said. Anything and everything is on the table to keep us from seeing seismic testing or offshore drilling off the coast of South Carolina. State Rep. Nancy Mace a Republican representing parts of the greater Charleston area supports the lawsuit which she called South Carolina's best option to challenge federal government overreach. The government doesn't get to pick winners and losers in this thing Mace said. When you have every mayor every community saying 'We don't want this' and now you're going to shove seismic testing down our throats? I don't think so. Mace said she is concerned both with potential environmental damage and the possible threat to South Carolina's 20 billion tourism industry much of which centers around the coast. We have the potential to destroy that beauty off our coast with rigs that nobody wants Mace said. We've got to do something and a lawsuit might be the only way to do it.	False	False	False	True	False
Hurricane Michael roared through the Florida Panhandle last week with 155 mph winds and a storm surge that reached 14 feet killing at least 18 people in four states destroying homes and knocking down power lines serving millions of customers. Tyndall Air Force Base near Panama City Florida took a direct hit and suffered heavy damage. The flight line is devastated. Every building has severe damage. Many buildings are a complete loss according to the bases most recent storm damage update. Of particular concern were the bases F 22 Raptor aircraft the most sophisticated fighter jet in the Air Forces arsenal. The stealth fighters cost 377 million apiece if you include research and development costs and the Air Force has 183 of them in its inventory. Tyndall is home to 55 of those F 22s. The New York Times reported that 33 of the Raptors were sent to Wright Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio leaving several of the highly valuable aircraft in the path of the storm. A spokesperson for the Air Force declined to give any tallies for damaged aircraft at Tyndall saying that crews are still assessing the scale of the damage. However photos taken by passers by show several F 22s in damaged hangars. We dont yet know the full extent of the damage across Tyndall or to the F 22s in particular. Reports now indicate that most of the F 22 aircraft that remained at Tyndall survived the storm intact and with repairable damage. But the fact that expensive hardware was housed in exposed structures on the Gulf Coast illustrates how vulnerable the military is to extreme weather especially as storms like hurricanes gain a boost from climate change. It also shows that the military is on the front lines of the consequences of rising temperatures. Conflicts exacerbated by drought heat and storms are a major concern for defense planners. Military installations themselves are also at risk At least 128 bases face inundation from sea level rise. With billions of dollars of assets in harms way and more weather extremes on the horizon making and enacting disaster plans are becoming all the more critical for the military. While Hurricane Michael was the first Category 4 storm to make landfall in the Florida Panhandle on record major hurricanes have struck the region in the past. Tyndall Air Force Base spans more than 29000 acres and is home to almost 4000 active military personnel. Officials say that base staff and their families were evacuated ahead of the storm and since Michael passed no fatalities or injuries were reported. But the bases runways sit adjacent to barrier islands including the aptly named Hurricane Island and were particularly at risk for damage from extreme weather. A hangar on the base even served as a refuge for other Raptors in May as Subtropical Storm Alberto hit the region. Tyler Rogoway at The Drive wrote a compelling explanation for why all the valuable aircraft werent simply flown out of harms way At modern fighter is not a Honda Accord. You dont just hop in it and drive it around for months until you finally have to take it for a one hour oil change when the light comes on. If anything they are far more akin to high end sports cars that require a lot of expensive TLC to keep operating. The F 22 in particular is more analogous to an exotic supercar or even a high end race car than anything else. It requires dozens of hours of maintenance for every single flight hour and deep maintenance can take days or even many weeks to accomplish depending on what is needed to be done and availability of spare parts which can be scarce. The aircraft that werent removed were likely undergoing maintenance and couldnt be readied in time for transportation especially given that Hurricane Michael gained strength so fast. However given that there are so few F 22s overall the Air Force has more than 400 F 15s and more than 1000 F 16s and that Raptors are no longer being manufactured each lost or damaged F 22 presents a large loss of capability. The coastal bases that house sensitive equipment like F 22s also face hazards particularly from extreme weather. As climate change pushes average temperatures up the raw ingredients of hurricanes water temperature and air temperature also intensify. Water temperatures in the Gulf of Mexico were 3 to 5 degrees Fahrenheit higher than is typical this time of year. Michaels rapid ramp up also comports with what scientists expect from global warming. As the climate continues to warm hurricanes may intensify more rapidly just before striking land making hurricane forecasting more difficult wrote Massachusetts Institute of Technology climate scientist Kerry Emanuel in a 2017 paper in the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society. For its part the military has been blunt about the risks posed by climate change describing it as a threat multiplier. The effects of a changing climate will impact our security situation said Defense Secretary James Mattis during his confirmation hearing. The military assembled an adaptation roadmap in 2014 chalking out how they plan to contend with climate change. Plans include raising coastal infrastructure protecting vulnerable supply chains and increasing disaster training. And the head of the National Guard Air Force Gen. Joseph Lengyel told Voxs Alex Ward last week Theres a lot of storms coming our way. Whatever the reason we have to be ready to deal with them. However Lengyel waffled on humanitys role in shaping the climate behind these storms. I believe the climate is changing. I dont know why he said. However as Hurricane Michael showed theres a vast gulf between acknowledging climate change and adequately preparing for it. Either there was a plan in place to deal with an unprecedented storm at Tyndall and it wasnt followed or there wasnt one and were already seeing the consequences.	False	True	False	True	False
New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez on Monday unveilednew details on the so called Green New Deal she plans to introduce in a matter of days as she worked behind the scenes to rally congressional support for the proposal that could cost as much as 7 trillion. Ocasio Cortez who is set to unveil the plan with Massachusetts Democratic Sen.Ed Markey told her fellow representatives in a letter that the Green New Deal calls for anational social industrial and economic mobilization at a scale not seen since World War II. Next week we plan to release a resolution that outlines the scope and scale of the Green New Deal Ocasio Cortez said in the letter adding that the country's near totaleconomic transformationshould take approximately ten years. To raise awareness for the measureMarkey announced Monday he had invitedVarshini Prakash the co founder of the Sunrise Movement environmentalist group to be his guest at President Trump's State of the Union address Tuesday night. Several other Democrats announced guests apparently intended to highlight their opposition to various Trump administration policies while Trump himself extended invites to the family of a couple allegedly murdered by an illegal immigrantand a child bullied at school for having the last name Trump. The Green New Deal proposal would lead to national net zero greenhouse gas emissions according to Ocasio Cortez'sletter through a fair and just transition for all communities and workers while also generating millions of good high wage jobs. Details of the letter were first published by Bloomberg. ANALYSIS GREEN NEW DEAL IS MOST RADICAL LEGISLATION IN DECADES Through it all the Green New Deal would additionally promote justice and equity by preventing current and repairing historic oppression to frontline and vulnerable communities according to Ocasio Cortez. On Twitter Monday Ocasio Cortez reposted a claim from one of her advisersRobert Hockett arguing that in this case size matters and that the problems the Green New Deal addresses require solutions where bigger is better imperative and paraodixcally more affordable. Hockett is a lawyer and law professor and is not an expert in environmental policy. Severalanalysts meanwhile have cautioned that the liberal firebrand is in over her head even though the as yet vague and uncertain details about the Green New Deal render a precise calculation impossible at the moment. Physicist Christopher Clack told The Hillthat the cost would easily be into the trillions. Its a daunting task and Im not sure that the authors of the Green New Deal fully comprehend how much theyll need Clack said. Institute for Energy Research president Tom Pyle was more blunt One hundred percent renewable energy defies the laws of physics. It would be impossible to achieve. And Paul Bledsoe a strategic adviser at the Progressive Policy Institute said progressives were overcompensating. I understand the value of aspirational goals Bledsoesaid. My personal view is that undermines the credibility of the effort. Nevertheless approximately 70 Democraticlawmakers have so far tentativelyendorsed aGreen New Deal plan including Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren and California Democratic Sen. Kamala Harris. House speaker Nancy Pelosi who has vowed to address climate change has not publicly signed onto the plan even though scores of progressive activists joined by Ocasio Cortez staged a sit in at her House office late last year demanding action on the climate. While there is no legislative text yet available for the MarkeyOcasio Cortez proposal adraft circulated by Ocasio Cortez last weekcalled for a committee to be formed to create a plan and lays out a framework that includes eliminating greenhouse gas emissions from manufacturing and agriculture whiledramatically expanding energy sources to meet 100 percent of power demand through renewable sources. To coverwhat would presumably be a gargantuan cost it envisions financing by the federal government using a combination of the Federal Reserve a new public bank or system of regional and specialized public banks public venture funds and such other vehicles or structures that the select committee deems appropriate in order to ensure that interest and other investment returns generated from public investments made in connection with the plan will be returned to the treasury reduce taxpayer burden and allow for more investment. As it stands any such proposal would be almost certainly dead on arrival in the Republican controlled Senate and also possibly the House where it is not clear if a majority of Democrats would back a plan. Even if Congress managed to pass a version of the Green New Deal the White House could veto the legislation anda two thirds majority in both the House of Representatives and the Senate would be needed to override the veto. The Trump administrationhas made clear it would not accept Ocasio Cortez's proposals. In January White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders derided Ocasio Cortez'srecent claim that theworld will end in 12 yearsdue to climate change andsuggested the Trump administration has little need for the progressive firebrand'sthoughts in general. CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP I don't think we'regoing to listen to Ocasio Cortez on much of anything particularly not on matters we're gonna leave in the hands of a much much higher authority and certainly not listen to the freshman congresswoman on when the world may end Sanders told Fox News' Hannity. Speaking at an eventcommemoratingMartin Luther King Day that monthOcasio Cortez asserted thatclimate change constituted our World War II and added Millennials and people you know Gen Z and all these folks that will come after us are looking up and were like The world is gonna end in 12 years if we dont address climate change and your biggest issue is how are we gonna pay for it?'	False	True	True	True	False
Trumps recently installed EPA chief dismissed a study from his own department's scientists about the dangers of climate change and then admitted he never even read the study in the first place. The study produced by EPA scientists andpublished in the journal Nature Climate Change concluded that climate change will affect 22 major sectors in the United States including human health infrastructure and agriculture and that the damages in some sectors are estimated to range in the hundreds of billions of US dollars annually by the end of the century if we do nothing and allow carbon emissions to remain high. But EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler a former coal lobbyist and a pro pollution apologist doesn't care. Just because our scientists publish something in a journal doesnt mean that thats agency policy or all the other scientists at the agency agree with that particular study Wheeler told Reuters. But Wheeler's quick dismissal of the report was followed up by an admission that he had no idea what it actually said. I have not read that article I just saw a news a clip about it but I haven't read it and I haven't talked to the scientist that wrote it Wheeler said. Wheeler was appointed to head the EPA after Trumps first scandal plagued EPA chief Scott Pruitt was ousted. And Wheeler's approach ignoring science in favor of industry and pollution is a perfect reflection of Trump's shameful approach to climate issues. The administration and its officials regularly disregard the scientific consensus about the harms of climate change in order to justify rolling back regulations and trashing initiatives designed to make the world cleaner and safer. Trump himself once infamously promoted the false conspiracy theory that climate change is a hoax from the Chinese government. Currently Trump is trying to create a senior level government panel that would oppose the scientific facts of climate change and instead promote baseless propaganda from pro pollution crackpots. Most U.S. government agencies are refusing to participate in the project. However Trump is still receiving plenty of help from congressional Republicans who refuse to take the climate crisis seriously. Senate Republicans have relentlessly made false and disingenuous attacks on the Green New Deal a sweeping Democratic proposal to help stop climate change before it's too late while also creating jobs and protecting vulnerable communities. And in the House Rep. Thomas Massie R KY made a viral fool of himself by attacking former Secretary of State John Kerry after he tried to raise concerns about how climate change would harm national security. Climate change is real. It is a threat to America and to all of humanity. But Trump and his fellow Republicans refuse to acknowledge reality and they certainly can't be bothered to read scientific reports about it. Published with permission of The American Independent.	False	False	False	True	False
GRETA Thunberg has been snubbed for the Nobel Peace Prize which has instead been awarded to Ethiopia's Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed for ending the 20 year Eritrea conflict. Bookies had suggested the teen climate campaigner was the front runner for the illustrious honour after she launched a furious tirade at the United Nations. But the Nobel Institute gave the award to the Ethiopian leader for ending one of Africa's longest running conflicts. Within months of coming to office in 2018 the 43 year old signed a Joint Declaration of Peace and Friendship with Eritrean Prime Minister Isaias Afwerki. He was also praised for his domestic reforms including releasing tens of thousands of political prisoners and allowed previously banned opposition groups. The prize is 730000 and will be formally awarded in Oslo in December. Greta first came to prominence after launching a school strike that has inspired millions of kids to take Fridays off to protest about climate change. The 16 year old Swede started the Fridays for Future movement to demand action be taken to combat global warming and is currently taking a year off school to focus on campaigning. Greta started the strike alone outside the Swedish parliament in Stockholm last August and has gone on to become one of the most recognisable faces in world affairs. The enmity between the two countries that occupy the Horn of Africa came after a border war fought between 1998 and 2000. The two countries disputed their border in the scrubby and desolate plains of Badime. Around 80000 soldiers and civilians died in the war which drained the resources of the two countries. The total cost to Ethiopia of the war and was believed to be around 3 billion while Eritrea was force to conscript 300000 soldiers a tenth of its population. After the fighting ended a stalemate remained as international mediation efforts were made to resolve their dispute. After Abiy took office he offered an olive branch to the Eritreans. Within weeks Eritrea's longtime leader visibly moved visited Ethiopia's capital Addis Ababa and communications and transport links were restored. For the first time in two decades people could long divided families made tearful reunions. The improving relations led to the lifting of United Nations sanctions on Eritrea one of the world's most reclusive nations. She already has an honour to her name after winning Amnesty International's highest Ambassadors of Conscience human rights award last month. Climate change is an issue which is strongly related to security and peace. In her UN speech Greta blasted governments for thinking only of money as she said the world was sleepwalking into a climate catastrophe. She raged People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing we are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and the fairy tale of endless economic growth. How dare you! The teens fiery speech was hailed by millions with climate change activists taking to the streets in huge protests around the world. But head activism has led to criticism from from world leaders and others who allege she is being manipulated. Vladimir Putin took aim at the teenager branding her poorly informed and saying she was telling developing countries they should keep living in poverty. The Russian president claimed its hypocritical to lecture poorer countries on the environmental impact of their bids to become more developed like the West. No one has explained to Greta that the modern world is complex and different and ... people in Africa or in many Asian countries want to live at the same wealth level as in Sweden. Go and explain to developing countries why they should continue living in poverty and not be like Sweden. Putin said young people who paid attention to environmental issues should be supported. Im sure that Greta is a kind and very sincere girl he said. But adults must do everything not to bring teenagers and children into some extreme situations. Donald Trump also took aim sarcastically mocking her as a very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future. French President Emmanuel Macron also warned her radical climate change stance risks depressing an entire generation. And some individuals were even more scathing with sick trolls branding her the little girl with mental problems and others suggesting shes not sexy enough in vile rants.	False	True	True	True	False
The Trump administration is challenging California over the state's new automotive emissions and fuel economy framework agreement with automakers insisting setting such standards is the federal government's role. Lawyers at the Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Transportation on Friday sent a letter to the chairman of the California Air Resources Board following California's July framework agreement with Ford Volkswagen Honda and BMW to abide by certain new greenhouse gas emissions standards. The purpose of this letter is to put California on notice that this framework agreement appears to be inconsistent with federal law the letter said. Congress has squarely vested the authority to set fuel economy standards for new motor vehicles and nationwide standards for GHG vehicle emissions with the federal government not with California or any other state. Given the importance Congress placed on the authority of DOT and EPA for motor vehicle fuel economy and nationwide vehicle emissions standards under federal law we urge you to act immediately to disassociate CARB from the commitments made by the four automakers the letter added. California had imposed stricter fuel economy and emissions standards long before July and some of the state's laws were enacted before the Clean Air Act. Congress granted a waiver to allow California to enact its own standards and a dozen other states also adopted California's standards. The varied standards mean automakers have had to make extra effort in either making two types of cars or manufacturing them all in accordance with the higher California standards. President Trump has pushed for months to weaken Obama era mileage standards nationwide. Those standards were designed to make cars more fuel efficient and reduce pollution. The administration moves to rescind California's authority are likely to prompt legal battles. When President George W. Bush challenged California's greenhouse gas emissions and mileage setting ability California fought it in the courts. The Obama administration subsequently dropped the Bush effort. The Trump administration has argued that the extra expense to comply with the emissions requirements will raise the price of new cars making them unaffordable and depriving buyers of new safety technology. Many experts including former EPA engineers have challenged the administration's safety assertion. Mr. Trump has long advocated for the auto industry and his administration has emphasized that environmental concerns cannot trump economic considerations. You know for too long there's been this conventional wisdom that you've got to choose between economic growth and environmental protection Energy Secretary Rick Perry said during a July speech on the environment that avoided any mention of climate change. That's a false choice and it's one that you've talked about Mr. President. It's always been this country and this country that leads just like you reminded people last Thursday the greatness of America the innovation of America. And the future of this world will rely greatly upon America and this administration.	True	True	True	True	True
The people who live there are at risk of lead contamination at every turn. It's in their drinking water and it's in their soil. More than one thousand people were forced to evacuate according to Debbie Chizewer at Northwestern Law School who has worked very closely with the affected residents. A local school was shut down and a public housing complex was also evacuated after soil tests showed lead and arsenic contamination levels 228 times the amount the Environmental Protection Agency considers potentially hazardous to children. It was the first superfund site EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has visited making a trip there Wednesday and the agency said he was the first administrator to visit this particular site. Pruitt visited to discuss cleanup and hear directly from East Chicago residents affected by contamination in their community the agency said in a press release. At a press conference local officials praised Pruitt for visiting the site. The community is what's a called a legacy contamination site. It was listed on the National Priorities List of the worst contaminated hazardous waste sites in the country in 2009. The site includes part of the former USS Lead facility along with nearby commercial municipal and residential areas including the West Calumet public housing complex. Barbara Bolling Williams state president of the Indiana branch of the NAACP said she is cautiously optimistic following Pruitt's visit but added that his visit comes with the threat of a skinnier EPA budget fewer regulations and rumors Chicago's regional EPA office could be shut down looms in the background. The Trump administration's proposed budget calls for a 31 cut to the budget including cuts to the agency's environmental justice program. The program is intended to support poor often minority communities with severe environmental challenges. One week ago the local chapter of the NAACP said it invited Pruitt to a roundtable discussion on environmental justice which happened Wednesday morning. In attendance were residents NAACP national President Cornell Williams Brooks and community members. Pruitt skipped that event and instead invited a group to a meeting of his own at a local school that was shut down as a result of the lead contamination in the community. Bolling Williams who was invited to Pruitt's meeting said Pruitt listened to all of our concerns but he did not offer any solutions. She said her organization wants to see the EPA do more to protect the East Chicago community. The NAACP presented Pruitt with a list of demands including a call for an executive order that would include a greater commitment to communities like East Chicago. We need them to commit to adjusting cleanup plan for the site. Instead of digging up two feet of contaminated soil for disposal digging up eight feet. We want that soil to be disposed of properly so as not to cause further contamination we want continued testing of the soil and ground water in this area and a commitment to ensure the residents exposed to the lead get the physical and mental health care they need for the rest of their life. That includes financial help to make sure that happens. EPA spokesman J.P. Freire told CNN in an email Forget about the politics. Administrator Pruitt was working for environmental justice by meeting with the real residents affected by lead contamination and by committing to get results. In its press release the agency laid out the accomplishments of its cleanup effort under Pruitt East Chicago is receiving 16.5 million in EPA State Revolving Fund SRF funding for drinking water infrastructure upgrades. EPA the state and the city are working together to coordinate lead service line replacement with cleanup work to expedite completion of the work and minimize disruptions. EPA provided 54 homes with filters and bottled water while Superfund work was underway at those properties in Zones 2 and 3. This year Indiana will distribute filters to all residents in Zones 2 and 3. The Natural Resources Defense Council told CNN that Pruitt has yet to respond to its request for more EPA assistance and oversight in the lead problem in East Chicago's drinking water. Those demands include Oversight of East Chicago's ongoing attempts to improve its corrosion control treatment expanded blood lead level testing of children under age 7 bottled water and home water filtration systems to residents throughout the city and testing the city's drinking water to determine the extent of the contamination. During his visit Pruitt provided brief comments at a press conference in East Chicago but quickly exited without answering questions from reporters. The Agency's press release quoted Pruitt saying I'm focused on getting EPA back to the basics of protecting human health and the environment and one of my top priorities is delivering real results for the people of East Chicago.' Pruitt went on Since I was sworn in as administrator funding has been secured for drinking water infrastructure upgrades in East Chicago filters and bottled water have been provided to residents and cleanup of contaminated soil has resumed.	False	True	False	True	False
As international leaders gathered in New York for this weeks meeting of the United Nations General Assembly they got another taste of the Trump Administrations leadership style. It can be summed up in one word confusion. Sometimes it appears to be a result of ineptitude other times it appears to be tactical. Then came the election of Donald Trump. After months of intrigue about what he might do Trump announced in June that the United States plans to withdraw from the accord unless we can re enter on terms that are more favorable to our country. It seemed that Trump left the door open to reversing his decision. Recent events have offered a good opportunity for Trump to do so. Steve Bannon the senior advisor who reportedly pressed Trump to withdraw from the accord has left the White House. Hurricanes Harvey and Irma showed with unprecedented fury that global warming is putting Americans in greater jeopardy by making storms more destructive. And the current convergence of world leaders on New York gives them another opportunity to lobby Trump to reverse his position. As last weekend began the Wall Street Journal reported The Trump administration is considering staying in the Paris agreement to fight climate change under the right conditions offering to re engage in the international deal The White House shot down the story by responding that the presidents intentions have not changed. It was the latest example of the bewilderment Trump has created about whether or not the worlds second biggest source of climate altering pollution plans to do anything about it. First with his seemingly provisional withdrawal decision last June Trump used one of his deal making gambits. He announced an extreme position but hinted he was willing to negotiate. In reality there is no deal to be made and no interest among other nations to reopen an agreement that took the world 20 years to achieve. It appears that Trumps real purpose was to please his base while blunting criticism with the hint that he might change his mind. Second it is clear even now that Trump and his people do not understand the Paris accord. They seem not to have read it. It calls for voluntary commitments from nations to cut their greenhouse gas emissions. If Trump feels the climate action plan President Obama submitted under the Paris accord was somehow disadvantageous to the country he could simply submit a new plan. Instead Trump hopes to show that he is standing up to the world community on behalf of Americas interests. Tillerson exhibited his lack of understanding when he said Sunday if you look at those targets and terms of the Paris climate accord they were just really out of balance for the two largest economies. He presumably was talking about China and the United States who are also the worlds two largest carbon polluters. However the commitments that China and the United States submitted under the Paris accord reflected a historic bilateral agreement that the two nations announced in November 2014. On Sept. 3 2016 President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China jointly reaffirmed their commitments to the Paris deal offering a rare display of harmony as the New York Times put it. So Tillersons perception that the Paris accord is not good for China or the United States was not shared by the two nations leaders. Nor I assume is it shared by the hundreds of businesses and investors who urged Trump to remain in the pact. Other history contradicts the idea that the United States signed onto an out of balance deal. In 1997 most nations signed the Kyoto Protocol an agreement under which developed but not developing nations committed to reduce their carbon pollution. The premise was that the industrial economies were most responsible for the greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and that developing countries needed to continue using fossil fuels for the immediate future to grow their economies. The U.S. Senate whose advice and consent was necessary before President Clinton could ratify the Protocol signaled that it would not concur. It approved a resolution saying that it would not consent to any agreement that did not also include greenhouse gas reductions by developing nations. As a result President Clinton did not bother to submit the Protocol to the Senate and in March 2001 President Bush announced officially that the U.S. would not participate. Third Trumps conditional willingness to reengage in international climate action is belied by the fact that he has laid waste to the federal governments ability to influence Americas carbon pollution. The United States would return to the table with little or nothing to offer in regard to our own substantial emissions.	False	False	False	False	True
Washington CNN President Donald Trump spent an hour Thursday talking about his commitment to economic growth and national stability as he announced the decision to back out of the Paris Climate Accord. After famously calling climate change a hoax during the campaign Trump has avoided the issue of increased man made greenhouse gas emissions and their impact on global temperatures. Asked Wednesday if Trump thinks human activity is contributing to climate change White House press secretary Sean Spicer responded Honestly I haven't asked him that. I can get back to you. Two White House officials avoided similar questions at a background briefing with reporters after Trump's speech Thursday. And EPA chief Scott Pruitt dodged the question in an interview with CNN's Jake Tapper. This is not about whether climate change is occurring or not Pruitt said on The Lead. The pattern of the White House has been to turn away from the discussion of climate change without taking the step to argue directly that global warming isn't real. Instead there is an administration wide reluctance to avoid the topic altogether. In recent months Trump proposed cutting the Environmental Protection Agency budget by more than 30. EPA has challenged scientific findings on climate change including by its own in house scientists. And EPA cut climate information from its website. Former deputy EPA administrator under President Barack Obama Bob Perciasepe said the Trump administration's avoidance of the term just makes them seem out of touch with reality. Climate change is happening whether they speak about it or not said Perciasepe who currently serves as president of the nonprofit Center for Climate and Energy Solutions. You can't make something not real if you just don't talk about it. It doesn't change reality it's just a way for them to de emphasize something the rest of the world knows is going on. On Wednesday the White House declared June National Oceans Month and Great Outdoors Month. While the proclamations a relatively standard annual designation praised the US's oceans and natural landscapes the language clearly differed from Obama's. Where Obama's 2016 proclamations discussed the impacts of global warming including drought and rising sea levels Trump's focused on energy production fisheries management and tourism with no mention of climate change. And the administration is adopting the same reasoning in press releases. Last month the Interior Department released a study by the U.S. Geological Survey that highlighted the link between sea level rise and global climate change. Except the release had one thing missing any mention of climate change. Three of the study's scientist authors told The Washington Post that they had to ultimately delete a line from the report that read Global climate change drives sea level rise increasing the frequency of coastal flooding. Instead the USGS release leaves the cause unmentioned . It begins The frequency and severity of coastal flooding throughout the world will increase rapidly and eventually double in frequency over the coming decades even with only moderate amounts of sea level rise. A defense against believing humans are responsible for climate change is that scientific studies are not 100 certain a stance frequently used by members of the Trump administration that muddles the scientific consensus that man made emissions are driving global warming. I think that measuring with precision human activity on the climate is something very challenging to do and there's tremendous disagreement about the degree of impact Pruitt said in a CNBC interview in March . So no I would not agree that it's a primary contributor to the global warming that we see. While the White House may be against jumping to conclusions on the available scientific studies with Pruitt even calling for more data from industry scientists the administration has done little to back up those calls monetarily. In fact instead of spending money to further study the effects and reality or unreality of global warming the administration has opted instead to cut much of the major funding that would go towards the studies. It is hypocritical said Andrew Rosenberg director for the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists. They are complaining about uncertainty but at the same time increasing uncertainty by cutting back on ways to measure climate change. For many the administration's reluctance to deal with the idea of climate change comes down to one thought that economic growth and climate awareness cannot go hand in hand. The idea that they are operating on is that the US will be at a disadvantage if it deals with climate change. Most businesses would think that working on the climate issues can and has been creating jobs said Perciasepe. It can strengthen United States company's competitiveness in the global markets.	True	True	False	True	False
Kirsti McCluer Reuters Golfers play in North Bonneville Washington last fall as the Eagle Creek wildfire burns. The U.N.'sIntergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said the world must drastically cut greenhouse gas emissions to avoid climate disaster. The only force that I know of on the planet that can deliver innovation as quickly as we need it is the free enterprise system said former Rep. Bob Inglis R S.C. now the executive director of RepublicEn a group urging Republicans to support a carbon tax. The report based on more than 6000 scientific references found that world governments have just 12 years to cut planet warming gases 45 percent at a time when humanitys CO2 footprint is rapidly rising and fossil fuel emissions are hitting an all time high. By 2050 emissions need to hit net zero. Failing to do so would be cataclysmic. The IPCC pegged the price of damage caused by 1.5 degrees of warming at 54 trillion a figure that soars to 69 trillion at 2 degrees Celsius or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit of temperature rise. There is near universal agreement that putting a price on carbon dioxide likely through a tax is key to scaling back emissions in much the same way levies on tobacco and alcohol are meant to offset those products societal costs. Last yearSens. Sheldon Whitehouse D R.I. and Brian Schatz D Hawaii and Reps. Earl Blumenauer D Ore. and David Cicilline D R.I.introduced companion carbon tax billsin Congress. In July Reps. Carlos Curbelo R Fla. and Brian Fitzpatrick R Pa. proposed a lower carbon tax earning plaudits for breaking with the Republican orthodoxy calling the very basics of climate change science into question. Its totally unrealistic said Jennifer Francis a research professor at Rutgers University. Were going to need to make a wide range of course corrections to have a hope of achieving 1.5 and also prepare for larger impacts than were already experiencing. Andrew Dessler a climate scientist at Texas AM University cast doubt on the possibility of halting human caused temperature at the 1 degree Celsius average global increase the planet has already experienced. Though he said a carbon tax high enough could reduce emissions arbitrarily fast the result would be soaring energy prices rather than what we want which is a switch to renewables. Asked during an IPCC press conference on Sunday night if carbon pricing could radically overhaul the global economy in the next decade two IPCC authors started to laugh. James Skeaa co chair of an IPCC working group said it was one among that portfolio of instruments that can be used but could not serve as a panacea. A number of insurgent left wing Democrats running in the 2018 midterms including star New York City congressional candidate Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are coalescing around a so called Green New Deal a loose set of proposals to spend trillions in federal dollars on renewable energy projects coastal fortifications and home weatherization retrofits.Polling released last month shows swelling support for a federal policy guaranteeing a high wage job in a green industry to anyone who wants one. Last month California became the biggest state to pass alaw requiring 100 percent clean electricityby 2045. In a surprise move Gov. Jerry Brown D also signed an executive order mandating the changessweep extend beyond utilities to the entire economy including vehicles the nations largest source of carbon pollution. Curbelo and Fitzpatrick did not respond to requests for comment Monday. Nor did the oil giant Exxon Mobil Corp. which spent decades financing a network of climate change misinformation before announcing its support for a carbon tax or the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative a corporate consortium that advocates for what it calls practical solutions to climate change. But for some conservative climate hawks the reality of the IPCC report hit home. Jerry Taylor a former climate denier who in recent years became the poster boy for Republican climate realism said he sticks by a carbon tax as the best solution but believes keeping warming within 1.5 degrees is unrealistic at this point regardless of policy. A steep enough global economy wide price on carbon could do it but thats not likely to happen said Taylor the president of the libertarian Niskanen Center. Hence the 1.5 C target is aspirational not functional. Over lunch at a conference last week Flint staked out his opposition to the Obama administrations use of executive authority to regulate carbon dioxide emissions. A former Trump transition team official he described himself as a sherpa for Interior Secretary Ryan Zinkes confirmation process. Now he says hes trying to get politicians to catch up with the science. Asked where the line is between what critics said was the previous administrations federal overreach and attempting to stave off the worst of what the IPCC predicted Flint went quiet for a while.	True	True	False	True	True
One hardly knows where to begin in taking apart an argument that is literally filled with errors fallacies inconsistencies and non sequiturs. The essay by Nathan Schneider appearing in the May 31 issue of America titled Trumps war on the environment is a war on the young and the unborn makes the incredible case that withdrawing from the Paris agreement constitutes a war on future generations tantamount to genocide. No matter that historically the environmentalist movement has been closely allied with the population control movement literally waging a war on the unborn through its promotion of vigorous anti natality programs and abortion on demand. Mr. Schneider makes no effort to conceal his own apocalyptic vision of climate change. Without the Paris accord he claims mankind is a species embracing its own suicidal fragmentation. The climate will turn to chaos because Mr. Trump has issued the command that we are to proceed with the destruction of the planet. How a person can have such unshakable certainty in the outcome of complex future events is truly remarkable. The inability to entertain even the slightest doubt that carbon dioxide emissions will necessarily lead to climate Armageddon borders on meteorological Fundamentalism. To judge a particular accord as contrary to the nations interests on the other hand is hardly a war on the environment. Perhaps Mr. Schneider should consider what a war on the environment would actually look like. Pouring toxic waste into rivers filling the air with noxious fumes polluting forests and open countrysidethese are signs of a war on the environment and sadly they can still be found in certain nations. Carbon dioxide on the other hand is non toxic. It is fundamental to the life of plants and a necessary component of photosynthesis. Growers regularly pump CO2 into greenhouses raising levels to three times that of the natural environment to produce stronger healthier plants. Current levels of carbon dioxide concentration in the environment are substantially lower than they have been during earlier periods in the planets history. Without human intervention the concentration of CO2 has climbed as high as 7000 parts per million ppm whereas at present the concentration is just over 400 ppm. Some such as UN climate scientist Dr. Indur Goklany who has previously represented the United States on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC have defended rising CO2 levels as a good thing for humanity. Goklany has argued that the rising level of carbon dioxide in the earths atmosphere is currently net beneficial for both humanity and the biosphere generally. The benefits are real whereas the costs of warming are uncertain he said. During his presidential campaign Donald Trump promised Americans that if elected he would make the United States energy independent and get out of the Paris climate deal. The fact that a president keeps his promises is usually considered a good thing. In point of fact Mr. Schneiders issue isnt just with the president it is with the nation that elected him. According to a recent study by the Pew Research Center a majority of Americans dont believe in manmade global warming. That doesnt put them at war with the environment and much less at war with the young and the unborn. Maybe they just want an America that is able to think and act for itself rather than one that bows to ever fad espoused by globalist elites.	True	True	False	True	False
President Trump on Wednesday signed two executive orders that will make it harder for states to block the construction of oil and gas pipelines and other energy projects due to environmental concerns. Coming on the heels of officials in Washington state and New York using permitting processes to stop new energy projects in recent years and at the urging of some industry leaders Trumps executive order willspeed up the construction of oil and gas pipelines across the country. My action today will cut through the destructive permitting and denials Trump said during the signing of the executive orders at the International Union of Operating Engineers International Training and Education Center a union run facility in Crosby Texas. Under this administration weve ended the war on American energy. It will take no more than 60 days Trump said of the approval process for new pipelines and the president not the bureaucracy will make the final decision. While the move was greeted warmly by members of the countrys oil and gas industries it is likely to rankle some more traditional conservative lawmakers including several Republican governors worried about the federal government impinging on individual state rights and governance. The White House has sought to stave off any discord by arguing that the order is not meant to take power away from the states but to ensure that state actions follow the intent of the Clean Water Act. Trade groups representing the oil and gas industry applauded the orders and said greater access to natural gas benefits families and the environment. When states say 'no' to the development of natural gas pipelines they force utilities to curb safe and affordable service and refuse access to new customers including new businesses said Karen Harbert president and CEO at the American Gas Association. Trump's move comes less than a week after nearly a dozen business groups told EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler that the environmental review and permitting process for energy infrastructure projects has become a target for environmental activists and states that oppose the production and use of fossil fuels. The groups said in an April 5 letter that individual states shouldn't be able to use provisions of the Clear Air Act to dictate national policy thereby harming other states and the national interest and damaging cooperative federalism. Washington state blocked the building of a coal terminal in 2017 saying there were too many major harmful impacts including air pollution rail safety and vehicle traffic. New York regulators stopped a natural gas pipeline saying it failed to meet standards to protect streams wetlands and other water resources. Under Section 401 of the Clean Water Act companies must get certification from the state before moving ahead with an energy project. One of Trump's planned executive orders calls for the Environmental Protection Agency to consult with states tribes and others before issuing new guidance and rules for states on how to comply with the law. Environmental groups described Trump's order as an effort to short circuit a state's ability to review complicated projects putting at risk a state's ability to protect drinking water supplies and wildlife. The Trump Administration's proposal would trample on state authority to protect waters within their own borders said Jim Murphy senior counsel for the National Wildlife Federation. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The private Center for Biological Diversity said Wednesday's actions would mark the fourth time Trump has used executive orders to streamline permits for fossil fuel infrastructure. Trump's developing an addiction to executive orders that rubberstamp these climate killing projects said Brett Hartl government affairs director at the center. The second executive order Trump signed on Wednesday streamlines the process for energy infrastructure that crosses international borders. Currently the secretary of state has the authority to issue permits for cross border infrastructure such as pipelines. The executive order clarifies that the president will make the decision on whether to issue such permits. The move follows Trump's decision last month to issue a new presidential permit for the long stalled Keystone XL oil pipeline two years after he first approved it and more than a decade after it was first proposed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False	False	False	False	False
US President Donald Trump is taking California to task for the management of its forests and dams blaming red tape for the devastating forest fires and drought plaguing the bluest of blue states and threatening to withhold aid. Speaking at a White House address on Tuesday Trumpwas shocked that Californians weren't using the water contained by their dams to put out the fires and irrigate their fields. We have so much water they could actually water some of it he said in disbelief. About half 48 percent of California's land is currently experiencing drought conditions which combined with high temperatures and strong winds are largely to blame for the record setting rash of fires in the state according to state fire chiefs. Trump a proud climate change skeptic attributes the fires to lousy management. He has repeatedly said the forests are too dense and need to be thinned a problem the logging industry would be happy to help with. As for the water it's Trump vs. the Delta smelt an endangered fish scientists argue can only be saved if the dammed waters are allowed to flow into the ocean instead of being used to irrigate the farms and homes of California residents. Trump wants to redistribute that water to Californians he says. Trump threatened to withhold future federal aid if Californiadoes not get on the ball implying that the state's environmental woes were its own fault. It's hard not to think there's an element of spite in this rhetoric as wealthy and influential Californians led talk of secession following Trump's 2016 election victory. Last week Trump signed a memo geared toward improving the reliable supply and delivery of water in California Oregon and Washington by streamlining environmental review and approval for water infrastructure projects. It's not a good week for the Delta smelt. Trump announced yesterday he will nominate Aurelia Skipwith a former Monsanto lawyer as director of the Fish and Wildlife Service. While she has worked for the department since 2013 environmentalists accuse her of gutting protections for migratory birds and endangered species.	False	False	False	False	False
One of the biggest legal battles over climate change is now in limbo pending a decision from the Supreme Courts chief justice who last week took the odd step of halting the lawsuit to consider a stay. The court is expected to rule Friday on whether the case which was expected to go to trial Monday can proceed. The suit Juliana v. US also known as the childrens climate lawsuit was first filed in 2015 and now includes 21 plaintiffs between the ages of 11 and 22 including Sophie Kivlehan 20 the granddaughter of the famed climate scientist James Hansen. The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate. As relief they want the government to pursue policies to keep warming in check. The trial was supposed to begin at the United States District Court in Oregon on October 29. But last week the defendant the US government asked for a stay of the case arguing the costs of litigation would put an undue burden on it. Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts granted a temporary stay and halted discovery until Wednesday to allow the plaintiffs to respond. The district court then vacated the case pending a decision from the high court. Working over the weekend the children and their lawyers filed a 103 page brief on Monday in hopes of receiving a decision from the Chief Justice before the weeks end. Now the case is back at the Supreme Court and what happens next is unclear including whether the other justices on the bench will weigh in. Several legal analysts told Vox it is extremely unusual for the Supreme Court to step in to block a legal proceeding in a lower court. Appeals from the District Court in Oregon are almost always handled by the 9th Circuit which has already declined to block the lawsuit. And one of the only other times Supreme Court has done something like this was also related to climate change. In 2016 the court stayed the Obama administrations Clean Power Plan to limit greenhouse gases from power plants pending ongoing lawsuits from states suing to block the rule from going into effect. But then the childrens lawsuit is an unusual case. The plaintiffs essentially are arguing that a safe climate is a civil right so the implications for climate change policy are huge. Though the case is in uncharted legal territory it has survived several legal challenges and motions to dismiss and lower federal courts have allowed it to proceed. Ann Carlson a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests theres something there that piques the courts interest. Its certainly a signal that the court is uncomfortable with the underlying legal theory of the Juliana case Carlson said. The federal government under Presidents Barack Obama and Donald Trump has argued the case has no merit and repeatedly sought to have it dismissed. Asked for comment the Department of Justice pointed to comments made by Jeffrey Wood a political appointee at the DOJ handling environmental cases who spoke about the Juliana case at a law conference last week. He said that the purported constitutional right that they assert simply does not exist and that the Juliana lawsuit has no legal basis. In our view the Oregon lawsuit is an unconstitutional attempt to use a single court to control the entire nations energy and climate policy Wood said adding the plaintiffs in Oregon are ignoring the fact that clean and responsible production and use of fossil fuels remains vital to the health and well being of the American people. For climate activists old and young the courts have become a last resort for pushing governments and businesses to reduce greenhouse gas emissions especially with an executive branch thats still denying climate change exists and a gridlocked Congress. There are also several ongoing climate change lawsuits filed by cities counties and a state against oil companies though the pivot points are different. The local governments are citing nuisance statutes and seeking money from oil companies to pay for damages caused by climate change whereas the childrens case is trying to force the government to enact policies to curb greenhouse gas emissions. But the prospects for the childrens climate lawsuit to succeed appear dim first because the courts tend to give wide latitude to the executive branch in these cases and second because the Supreme Courts newest Justice Brett Kavanaugh is much more skeptical of environmental regulations than his predecessor. This is just the beginning of what were likely to see from a Court that doesnt have Justice Kennedy on it anymore Carlson said.	False	False	False	False	False
In the first significant check on the Trump administrations energy first agenda a US judge has temporarily halted hundreds of drilling projects for failing to take climate change into account. Drilling had been stalled on more than 300000 acres of public land in Wyoming after it was ruled the Trump administration violated environmental laws by failing to consider greenhouse gas emissions. The federal judge has ordered the Bureau of Land Management BLM which manages US public lands and issues leases to the energy industry to redo its analysis. The decision stems from an environmental lawsuit. WildEarth Guardians Physicians for Social Responsibility and the Western Environmental Law Center sued the BLM in 2016 for failing to calculate and limit the amount of greenhouse gas emissions from future oil and gas projects. The agency did not adequately quantify the climate change impacts of oil and gas leasing said Rudolph Contreras a US district judge in Washington DC in a ruling late on Tuesday. He added that the agency must consider the cumulative impact of GHG greenhouse gas emissions generated by past present and future BLM leases across the country. The decision is the first significant check on the climate impact of the Trump administrations energy first agenda that has opened up vast swaths of public land for mining and drilling. Environmental advocates are praising the move with Jeremy Nichols WildEarth Guardians Climate and Energy Program director calling it a triumph for our climate. This ruling says that the entire oil gas drilling program is off the rails and moving forward illegally said Nichols. Under Trump the pace of leasing public lands for oil and gas development has surged. A recent study found the administration has made more than 13m onshore acres available for leasing far more than any similar period under Obama. The vast majority are located in the western states of Colorado Montana New Mexico Nevada Utah and Wyoming. The administration also plans to make large portions of the Atlantic available for oil and gas development and the interior department has been criticized for favoring the energy industry. The BLM did not reply to a request for comment. The Western Energy Alliance one of the defendants in the case also did not respond to a request. Kathleen Sgamma its president told the Washington Post This judge has ignored decades of legal precedent in this ruling. The judge is basically asking BLM to take a wild guess on how many wells will be developed on leases prematurely. Nichols predicts there will be implications for public lands across the west. His group is now poised to bring litigation to block drilling on hundreds of thousands of acres in other states. With the science mounting that we need to aggressively rein in greenhouse gases this ruling is monumental said Kyle Tisdel attorney and energy and communities program director for the Western Environmental Law Center. Every acre of our public land sold to the oil and gas industry is another blow to the climate making this ruling a powerful reality check on the Trump administration and a potent tool for reining in climate pollution.	False	False	False	False	False
Not that surprising except this was a Senate committee field hearing challenging the position shared by President Donald Trump and many Republicans in Congress that climate change isn't real. The site of the hearing just four miles from Trump's weekend getaway in Palm Beach was clearly intended to send a signal Much of Florida's coastline could one day be underwater including some of the President's own prized properties. Today we sit at ground zero of the impacts of climate change in the US Florida Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson said. And while there are still some who continue to deny climate change is real South Florida offers proof that it is real and it's an issue we're going to be grappling with for decades to come. Data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration show that Trump's Mar a Lago Club and his condominiums in Hollywood Florida would be partially submerged if sea level rose three feet by the end of the century. Already Hollywood experiences more incidents of tidal flooding. NOAA itself in a recent report raised the specter of millions of coastal residents in the United States especially along the low lying East Coast being displaced by coastal flooding. The agency outlined how sea levels could rise by at least four to five feet by century's end engulfing numerous coastal communities or making flooding so frequent as to render them uninhabitable. What we thought was extremely rare large floods invading coastal cities on a regular basis is becoming more and more probable said William Sweet an oceanographer at NOAA and the report's lead author. The gap between our infrastructure and the global sea level is narrowing A recent study published in Nature concluded that with the acceleration of ice melt in Antarctica sea levels could rise to six feet by 2100. At that point Trump's golf course at Doral Florida and several properties at Sunny Isles Beach would also be under water. The fact that Trump's own properties are vulnerable to the impact of climate change is paradoxical given that the EPA is poised to undo President Barack Obama's plan to cut greenhouse gas emissions from coal fired power plants. In a now infamous 2012 tweet Trump claimed that global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing non competitive. The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non competitive. Donald J. Trump November 6 2012 The Senate Commerce Science and Transportation Committee hearing was conducted by Nelson the panel's ranking member but it was authorized by Republican Sen. John Thune of South Dakota the committee's chairman who has acknowledged human activity is responsible for climate change. Climate change is not just a threat to our planet's future it's a threat to our communities today. Thanks for this hearing. pic.twitter.comixO6VhRhrO Rep. Ted Deutch April 10 2017 Thune told Fox News anchor Chris Wallace in a 2014 interview for example Well look climate change is occurring it's always occurring Chris. There are a number of factors that contribute to that including human activity. The question is what are we going to do about it and at what cost? Trump has proposed slashing the EPA budget by a third and eliminating many climate change programs entirely. But when it comes to his own property in Ireland a golf course and resort in the small town of Doonbeg the President took a more proactive approach. He proposed to build a wall to fight coastal erosion by the course's sand dunes which eroded after heavy storms in 2014. After several attempts to gain approval the President refiled an application in December 2016 and is still waiting to get an authorization from the local county council. For many coastal communities the problems have already begun. Flooding and high winds are more frequent said Sweet the NOAA oceanographer. Hurricane Sandy broke through the sea walls of several homes near Mar a Lago in 2012 and Palm Beach County had to restore more than 20 acres of eroded seashore. Miami meanwhile is investing millions of dollars to raise the level of its properties its roads and water systems as protection against flooding. Other cities like Norfolk Virginia and Charleston South Carolina that are at risk of extreme flooding are also trying to deal with the issue. Christina DeConcini director of government affairs for the environmental group World Resources Institute said the US needs a fact based approach for how to address this clear and present danger to America's infrastructure homes and businesses. What won't solve the problem is putting our heads in the Florida sand while streets and basements flood around us she said in a statement. Palm Beach County Commissioner Steven Abrams downplayed the political aspects of the Senate committee hearing in a statement Friday. Sea level rise and coastal flooding driven by climate change pose real significant risks to our residents and should not be politicized he said.	False	False	False	False	False
BISMARCK N.D. AP A federal judge ruled Wednesday that the Dakota Access oil pipeline can continue operating while a study is completed to assess its environmental impact on an American Indian tribe. U.S. District Judge James Boasbergs decision will come as a blow to the Standing Rock Sioux who have argued that an oil spill from the pipeline under Lake Oahe from which the tribe draws its water could have a detrimental effect on the tribal community. Todays decision is a disappointing continuation of a historic pattern Other people get all the profits and the tribes get all the risk and harm said Jan Hasselman an Earthjustice attorney representing the tribe in an ongoing federal lawsuit through which Standing Rock and three other tribes still hope to shut down the pipeline. Boasberg found that it is likely the Army Corps of Engineers will be able to justify previous decisions made while permitting the pipeline. The Corps must simply connect the dots he said. This then is not a case in which the agency must redo its analysis from the ground up. Boasberg also acknowledged that shutting down the pipeline would disrupt the energy industry but said it wasnt a major factor in his decision. The 3.8 billion pipeline built by Texas based Energy Transfer Partners has been operating since June 1 moving oil from North Dakota through South Dakota and Iowa to a distribution point in Illinois. From there it can be shipped to the Gulf Coast and potentially lucrative markets abroad. It has the capacity to move half of the oil produced daily in North Dakota the nations second leading producer behind Texas. Energy industry officials applauded Boasbergs ruling with North Dakota Petroleum Council President Ron Ness calling the pipeline a critical part of American energy infrastructure. The Justice Department declined comment on behalf of the Corps. President Donald Trump had pushed for the pipelines completion and the Corps dropped a plan to conduct more environmental study after he took office. Boasberg ruled on June 14 that the Corps largely complied with environmental law but he ordered the agency to reconsider certain areas of its analysis and took arguments on whether to shut down the 1200 mile 1930 kilometer pipeline while the work is done. Boasberg in June said the Corps didnt adequately consider how an oil spill under the Lake Oahe reservoir on the Missouri River in the Dakotas might affect the Standing Rock Sioux. The tribe is among four that have challenged the pipeline in court over environmental fears that ETP says are unfounded. The judge said the Corps also didnt adequately study how the pipeline might disproportionately affect the tribal community a concept known as environmental justice. That aims to ensure development projects arent built in areas where minority populations might not have the resources to defend their rights. In its analysis of the Missouri River crossing the Corps studied the mostly white demographics in a half mile 0.8 kilometer radius which the agency maintains is standard. But if the agency had gone an additional 88 yards 80 meters about the length of a football field the study would have included the Standing Rock Reservation. Boasberg in his ruling Wednesday said that issue was a closer call than the others but that it still did not justify shutting down the pipeline. He noted that the tribes water intake has been moved about 50 miles 80 kilometers downstream since pipeline construction began and said an alternative river crossing near Bismarck that had been studied and rejected would pass much closer to a drinking water intake that serve tens of thousands more people. Risks presented to this tenfold increase in population must of course be considered the judge said. Corps attorneys said the agency expects to be able by next spring to substantiate its earlier determination that the pipeline poses no significant environmental threats. ETP maintained that a shutdown would cost it 90 million monthly and significantly disrupt the broader energy industry as well as state and local tax revenue. The North Dakota Pipeline Authority this week said that the Dakota Access pipeline boosted the states tax revenues by about 19 million in its first three months of operation. Tribal attorneys argued that ETP had overstated the potential effects of a shutdown and Boasberg acknowledged some cause for skepticism regarding ETPs predictions. Tribal attorneys also said a shutdown would create incentive for the Corps to take the review seriously. The tribes had proposed a fallback plan if Boasberg decided against a shutdown. It includes increased public reporting of pipeline issues such as repairs and implementation of a spill response plan including equipment staging at Lake Oahe. Boasberg said he will hear arguments on the matter. He scheduled a status conference for Oct. 18.	False	False	False	False	False
ASSOCIATED PRESS Sen. Bernie Sanders I Vt. is hosting a livestreamedsummit on climate change next month intensifying pressure on the new Congress and TV networks to devote attention to the crisis. We need millions of people all over this country to stand up and demand fundamental changes in our energy policy in order to protect our kids and our grandchildren and the planet Sanders told HuffPost by phone. The good news is the American people are beginning to stand up and fight back. The event bolsters Sandersa likely contender for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination as the most serious candidate on climate change offering a far more comprehensive response than rival progressive Sen. Elizabeth Warren D Mass. who staked out a climate policy based on a bill to force public companies to disclose financial risk from warming or regulations to curb emissions. The summit which took months to plan will take place less than a month after Rep. elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. propelled talk of a so called Green New Deal into the Democratic mainstream giving play for the first time to the sort of federal response to climate change scientists say is necessary to fully meet the scale of the crisis. In October the United Nations concluded world governments must halve emissions over the next 12 years or risk catastrophic warming with 54 trillion in damage. What we are seeing is a growing consciousness Sanders said. The horrors that weve seen in California in the largest forest fire that that state has ever experienced this is not going to be an anomaly unless we begin the long hard struggle to transform our energy system. Climate remains a low priority for most voters. Just 38 percent of registered voters said candidates positions on global warming would be very important to their voting decisions according to a Yale Program On Climate Change Communication survey published in May. Rising temperatures ranked 15th of 28 issues voters ranked in the questionnaire. In the lead up to the 2018 midterm elections the fossil fuel industry spent 100 million to crush pro climate ballot measures across the West and to prop up candidates who supported increased oil and gas extraction. Yet that base of climate hawks helped elect a cadre of Democrats whose urgent visions for climate action earned plaudits from a spectrum ranging from mainstream environmental groups to so called eco socialists. And a new majority of Democratic stateattorneys general are facing growing pressure to file lawsuits over climate damages. Activists freshly galvanized by the hellscape images of Californias deadliest wildfire seem primed for action and the partys progressive wing has signaled a new willingness to force a more serious debate over an issue thats remained stagnant in the House for much of the past decade. The fact that climate change is that high among the base of one of our two major political parties is remarkable because that was not the case even five years ago said Anthony Leiserowitz a senior research scientist and Yales climate program director. If you think of Bernie youd think hed be talking about inequality or civil rights. Theres a whole host of progressive issues yet this is the one hes leading with. It may suggest theres been an alignment of the stars. Last week youth activists with the grassroots climate group Sunrise Movement staged sit ins in the offices of House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi D Calif. and Rep. Frank Pallone D N.J. the likely next chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee who opposed the creation of a select committee on a Green New Deal. The horrors that weve seen in California in the largest forest fire that that state has ever experienced this is not going to be an anomaly unless we being the long hard struggle to transform our energy system. He helped popularize things like Medicare for All a living wage and a lot of other fights hes taken up said Varshini Prakash the co founder of Sunrise Movement. I hope he pushes for a Green New Deal and helps really add fuel to the fire thats been lit under politicians and the public over the past week. Sanders stopped short of endorsing the Green New Deal. But in April 2017 he co sponsored legislation to move the United States to 100 percent clean energy by 2050. The bill included 7 billion in targeted infrastructure and environmental investments in fossil fuel communities and called for union labor protections for workers on federally backed green jobs. In November 2017 Sanders introduced a bill to spend 146 billion rebuilding storm ravaged Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands with renewable energy. Seventy one percent of major televised debates in the 2018 midterm elections ignored the issue completely. Only four of the 107 segments ABC CBS and NBC aired from Nov. 8 to Nov. 13 on the deadly wildfires scorching California this month discussed climate change. In 2017 the influential Sunday morning talk shows on ABC CBS NBC and Fox News aired a combined 260 minutes of climate coverage 79 percent of which focused exclusively on President Donald Trumps personal beliefs on science and his decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement.	False	False	False	False	False
Two water districts in Sacramento California are suing the US government for nearly one and a half billion dollars for groundwater cleanup. Plaintiffs claim heavy metals used by aircraft maintenance crews at the old McClellan Air Force Base have contaminated over 300 sites. The lawsuits named the US Air Force and 10 major firms involved in supplying chromium products and chemicals to the base and was filed by the Sacramento Suburban Water District and the Rio Linda Elverta Community Water District according to the Sacramento Bee. At contention is whether the cancer causing chemical hexavalent chromium or chromium 6 came from the base which was designated a federal Superfund site in 1987 for 326 contaminated sites identified for cleanup. They knew or should have known that this harmful compound would reach groundwater pollute drinking supplies render drinking water unusuable and unsafe and threaten the public health and welfare stated the complaint which claims an underground storage tank likely held the chemical. The lawsuits demands more than 1.4 billion to clean up the polluted wells install treatment equipment and replace wells that have been decommissioned for being polluted with chromium 6. Sacramento Suburban seeks to recover the substantial costs necessary to protect the public and restore its damaged drinking water supply the water districts lawsuit filed in federal court in Sacramento says as part of its claim seeking 1.1 billion in damages. Rio Linda Elvertas claim seeks more than 289 million in damages. Chrome 6 is a highly toxic compound and it shouldnt be in the water Victor Sher a San Francisco environmental attorney representing the plaintiffs said Tuesday. Water districts are constantly balancing risks against cost he said adding Theyre committed to delivering water that is as free as possible of contaminants but doing so is expensive. Plaintiffs argued that as far back as 1984 McClellan had burn and burial pits trenches and unlined ponds and ditches contaminated with chemicals. Contaminated with plating wastes solvents acids waste oils paint thinners strippers and sludges and other hazardous compounds the lawsuits stated. Plaintiffs argue that the chemicals have been found in groundwater under the base as high as 840 parts per billion six times higher than levels that decrease away from the air base. The state set a maximum concentration for chromium 6 as 10 parts per billion in 2014. The Air Force denied Rio Linda Elvertas claim in a May 9 letter before the district sued in federal court on June 30. The Air Force had consistently denied responsibility for polluting the groundwater around the base which operated from 1936 through 2001 before being converted to a business park. In addition to the Air Force the water district lawsuits name 10 firms they say were associated with providing chemicals to the base Elementis Chromium Inc. Occidental Chemical Corp. Honeywell Inc. BASF Corp. PPG Inc. E.I. Du Pont De Nemours and Co. Luxfer Holdings PLC Sigma Aldrich Corp. and Dow Chemical Co. Officials with Sacramento Suburban which serves 175000 customers just east of the old base and Rio Linda Elverta which serves about 15000 customers to the west of the base say the water they are currently providing is safe. A 2016 Harvard study of some36000 EPA water samples taken from 2013 to 2015 at industrial sites military fire training locations airports and wastewater treatments plants containedlevels of perfluoroalkyl substances PFASs or perfluorinated chemicals that go beyond what is considered safe by the federal government. Researchers determined that drinking water for 6 million in the US is at or beyond the EPA safety threshold for PFAS levels. Xindi Hu the study's lead author warned that the actual number of people exposed may be even higher than our study found because government data for levels of these compounds in drinking water is lacking for almost a third of the U.S. populationabout 100 million people.	False	False	False	False	False
Environmental Protection Agency EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt told business advocates the agency will reconsider a rule utilities worry could force more coal fired power plants to close. I have decided that it is appropriate and in the public interest to reconsider the rule Pruitt wrote in a letter sent Wednesday to counsel for a utility group and officials at the U.S. Small Business Administration SBA. The EPA is acting promptly to issue an administrative stay of the compliance dates in the rule that have not yet passed pending judicial review Pruitt wrote regarding an EPA regulation on liquid waste from coal plants. Pruitt was responding to a petition sent by the Utility Water Action Group UWAG urging the Trump administration to rescind its Effluent Limitations Guidelines for coal fired power plants. UWAG argues the regulation will cause negative impacts on jobs due to the excessive costs of compliance which were grossly underestimated by EPA and regulatory burdens forcing plant closures. UWAG said EPA underestimated the rules costs and withheld records about the rulemaking from utilities who would have to comply with the rule which the agency estimates could cost up to 2.5 billion a year. To an unprecedented extent the Agency withheld fundamental information purporting to justify the Rule UWAG argued adding that included pages of the record that demonstrably were not entitled to confidential treatment. The EPA said in legal filings it withheld records to protect confidential business information. Pruitt said EPA would reconsider the ELG rule based on UWAGs concerns. Its the latest move by the Trump administration to ease the regulatory burden on the coal industry. President Donald Trump promised to lessen regulations on coal mines to put miners back to work. Trump has already signed executive orders to rescind EPA and Interior Department regulations on coal production and power generation. Most recently Trump ordered the EPA to review the Clean Power Plan which limits carbon dioxide emissions from new and existing power plants. That rule was also expected to force more coal plants to prematurely shutdown. Environmentalists were obviously outraged by Pruitts decision. Trumps attempt to halt these clean water protections for mercury lead and arsenic from coal power plants is dangerous and irresponsible said Mary Anne Hitt the director of the Sierra Clubs Beyond Coal campaign. The Obama administration finalized the ELG rule in 2015 and it went into effect in January 2016. The rule requires coal plants to install new equipment to curb pollution from wastewater streams. Utilities including UWAG took EPA to court to have the rule overturned. UWAG and others argued the rule violated the Clean Water Act and Administrative Procedures Act. Aside from arguing EPA improperly withheld data on how they came up with the rule plaintiffs argued the agency didnt perform proper testing to see if requiring coal plants to install new equipment would meet federal pollution guidelines. Environmentalists fought to keep the rule in place and Pruitt can expect legal challenges if EPA tries to repeal the ELG rule. Trump claimed he wanted EPA to go back to basics and focus on clean air and water in his Administration but one of the first actions by his EPA Administrator is an attempt to gut an important water pollution safeguard Hitt said. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	False	False	False	False	False
Last month during an episode of CNBCs Squawk Box Scott Pruitt the head of the Environmental Protection Agency said that he did not consider carbon emissions to be a primary contributor to global warming. Pruitt was pretty steadfast in his position then however on Sunday he was forced to entertain the possibility that he might be wrong during an interview with Fox Newss Chris Wallace. After referencing Pruitts statement from last month Wallace said that there are all kinds of studies that contradict him. The Fox News Sunday anchor went on to reference a report from the U.N. that says it is 95 percent likely that human activity has caused the majority of the warming that has taken place since the mid 20th century. The report also determines thatthere is more carbon dioxide now than in the last 400000 years and that2015 and 2016 were the two hottest years on record. After listing this information Wallace then asked Mr. Pruitt are we supposed to believe thats all a coincidence? Unable to give a straight answer Pruitt first admitted that human activity does contribute to the current warming trend. He then quickly moved on to accusing President Obama of reimagining authority with his clean power plan and praised Trumps recent executive order undoing environmental regulations that Obama put in place. Wallace quickly called Pruitt out on his inability to answer the question saying Sir youre sugar coating what you have said. You said there that you would not agree that carbon CO2 is a primary contributor to global warming. And the question I have is what if youre wrong? What if in fact the Earth is warming what if it is causing dramatic climate change and that we as humans through carbon emissions are contributing to it? Backed into a corner Pruitt conceded that CO2 does contribute to global warming although he followed up this concession by saying The issue is how much we contribute to it from a human activity perspective and what can be done about it from a process perspective. Wallace responded by asking But dont you think the fact that we have these coal power plants belching carbon emissions into the air you dont think that plays a role? Realizing that he wasnt going to get anywhere with Pruitt on that particular issue Wallace switched gears slightly to ask a final question about the Trump administrations proposed cuts to the EPA. Once again Pruitt took the question as an opportunity to criticize the Obama administration saying that in the past there has been a lack of commitment to state partnership. When Wallace asked him if he was sure that the states would pick up the slack Pruitt said that he had met with several governors who had confirmed that they would. Whether or not thats actually true remains to be seen. Watch the interview below via YouTube. Featured image is a screenshot from the video.	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON Reuters The U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee passed a spending bill on Thursday evening that includes 10 million to help fund the United Nations climate change body that oversees the Paris Climate Agreement despite President Donald Trumps decision to stop funding it. The 30 member Senate panel which allocates federal funds to various government agencies and organizations approved a 51 billion spending bill for the State Department and foreign operations which included an amendment to continue funding the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change as well as the scientific body the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The amendment passed even though the 2018 budget proposal that Trump a Republican introduced earlier this year eliminated support of any mechanism to finance climate change projects in developing countries and organizations. The United States is still a party to the 1992 UNFCCC which oversees the Paris agreement although Trump announced in June that he would withdraw the nation from the global climate pact and cease funding the Green Climate Fund which supports clean energy and climate adaptation projects in vulnerable countries. The United States has usually contributed to around 20 percent of the UNFCCC budget. Democratic Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon the amendments author said on Twitter on Thursday Despite dangerous decision unwillingness to act we can will fight back to combat The amendment passed 16 14. Republican Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lamar Alexander of Tennessee voted in favor as did all committee Democrats except for West Virginias Joe Manchin. Although the United States announced it would no longer be a party to the Paris Climate Agreement a pact that nearly 200 countries approved in 2015 to combat global warming it has said it will continue to observe the ongoing negotiations. In a diplomatic cable that Reuters obtained last month Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said U.S. diplomats should sidestep questions from foreign governments on how the United States plans re engage in the global Paris climate agreement. The cable also said diplomats should make clear that the United States wants to help other countries use fossil fuels which have been linked to global warming. L1N1KU0UP	False	False	False	False	False
Adopting more active forest management policies such as increased thinning of trees and conducting controlled burns will help mitigate damage from future wildfires the Los Angeles Times editorial board writes. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke began advocating similar policy prescriptions earlier in 2018 after President Donald Trump blamed Californias bad environmental laws for creating a wildfire prone environment.RELATED Trump Administration Is Taking Its Fight Against Bad Environmental Laws Straight To California California forests have grown drier and less healthy from overcrowded trees infestations of bark beetles and the effects of climate change the LA Timeswrites. Californias restrictions on active forest management have contributed to the poor and worsening conditions of the forests allowing them to grow uninhibited while suppressing fires that would normally naturally control the forests growth. Fire is not necessarily bad for forests. California used to burn with regularity and low intensity fires are vital in some ecosystems to clear excess brush and small trees from the landscape the editorial board writes. But theres been a change in fire behavior over the last century as the state and federal government began dousing the blazes. Decades of fire suppression have allowed forests to grow dense with trees. Combined with drought insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality the op ed continues. Californias environmental laws entered the national spotlight in early August when Trumpblamedthem for the severity of the wildfires that were ravaging the state. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke was soon at the front of the administrations push for California to begin adopting more active land management policies. Zinke traveled to California to see the damage from the fires and meet with local officials and firefighters Aug. 13. Zinke ramped up calls for greater forest thinning while also dismissing the idea that climate change is playing a significant factor in the wildfires intensity.RELATED Ryan Zinke Shifts The Wildfire Debate From Global Warming To Anti Logging Environmental Terrorists Ive heard the climate change argument back and forth Zinke told Sacramento based KCRA. This has nothing to do with climate change. This has to do with active forest management. California Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown partnered with state lawmakers to introduce changes to the states policies. The bill would grant 1 billion toward forest thinning and ease regulations on cutting trees on private property according to the LA Times.	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON The Supreme Court refused the Trump administration's request Friday to block21 young people from putting a warming planet on trial in Eugene Ore. Theaction keeps alive at least for nowanunusual lawsuit begun in 2015 to force a change in federal environmental policyby declaring a climate systemcapable of sustaining human life a civil right.The lawsuit was broughton behalf of children now ages 11 22as well as future generations. But while refusing to halt the trial the justices indicated that the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit could do so if the Justice Department asks. That court has refused to intervene in the past. Associate Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch dissented presumably because they were prepared to stop the trial now. The justices had expressedmisgivings about the lawsuitin July when they refused to stop the legal process but said the breadthof theclaims was striking. Whether those claims should be handled in court presents substantial grounds for difference of opinion the court said then. Lawyers for Our Children's Trust have argued that government policies have deprived the children of their constitutional rights to life liberty and propertyto dignity to personal security to a stable climate system capable of sustaining human lives and liberties. They want the government toprepare an accounting of the nations greenhouse gas emissions and prepare and implement an enforceable national remedial plan for reducing carbon emissions. Federal district court Judge Ann Aiken who has presided over pretrial briefing for more than two years had scheduled the trial to begin Mondayand last up to 12 weeks. Courts have an obligation not to overstep the bounds of their jurisdiction but they have an equally important duty to fulfill their role as a check on any unconstitutional actions of the other branches of government she said last monthin denying the government's effort to stall or dismiss the trial. The Justice Departmentobjected to the time and expense claiming that the issue was one for Congress not the courts to resolve. Its objections were first raised during the Obama administration. This suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions Solicitor General Noel Francisco argued in court papers. The children on whose behalf the lawsuit was filed he said can make no credible claim of imminent irreparable harm. Their alleged injuries stem from the cumulative effects of CO2emissions from every source in the world over decades. Although the case Juliana v. United States has yet to reach the trial stage it has been taught in more than two dozen law schools as well as primary and secondary schools lawyers for the children said inspiring students of all ages to see themselves in the parchment of the U.S. Constitution. More Supreme Court Conservative groups see opportunities to cut regulation shore up property rights More Brett Kavanaugh vote Will 'asterisk justice' bring political stain to Supreme Court? More Who is the real Brett Kavanaugh? Legal whiz kid or partisan hack? Mentor to women or beer loving frat boy?	False	False	False	False	False
Participants included the CEOs of Italian oil giant ENI British Petroleum ExxonMobil and Norways Statoil as well as scientists and managers of major investment funds. Their remarks on the first day of the closed door conference were not released by the Vatican. While Francis lauded the oil executives for embedding an assessment of climate change risks into their planning strategies he also put them on notice for their continued search for fossil fuel reserves 2 years after the Paris climate accord clearly urged keeping most fossil fuels underground. Civilization requires energy but energy must not destroy civilization he implored. Energy experts and those who advocate fighting climate change expressed doubts before the conference that it would amount to anything other than a PR opportunity for the companies to burnish their image without making meaningful changes. In his remarks the pope said he hoped the meeting gave participants the chance to re examine old assumptions and gain new perspectives. Francis said that modern society with its massive movement of information persons and things requires an immense supply of energy. And still he said as many as one billion people still lack electricity. The pope said meeting the energy needs of everyone on the planet must be done in ways that avoid creating environmental imbalances resulting in deterioration and pollution that is gravely harmful to our human family both now and in the future. Frances also recalled his own appeal in the Laudato Si encyclical for an energy policy aimed at averting disastrous climate changes that could compromise the well being and future of the human family and our common home. That includes transitioning to efficient clean energy sources. This is a challenge of epochal proportions he said Saturday. At the same time it is an immense opportunity to encourage efforts to ensure fuller access to energy by less developed countries as well as diversifying energy sources and promoting the sustainable development of renewable forms of energy. The pope called for a long term global strategy to provide energy security along with precise commitments to tackle the challenge of climate change. He said it was disturbing and a cause for real concern that the levels of carbon dioxide emissions and the concentrations of greenhouse gases remain high despite commitments taken in the 2015 Paris accord to fight global warming. He urged participants to use their demonstrated aptitude for innovation to address two of the great needs in todays world the care of the poor and the environment. He noted that the poor pay the highest price for climate change often being forced to migrate due to water insecurity severe weather and an accompanying collapse in agriculture. The transition to accessible and clean energy is a duty that we owe toward millions of our brothers and sisters around the world poor countries and generations yet to come the pope said.	False	False	False	False	False
The pictures are striking dozens of whales lie stranded on an idyllic beach in a remote part of New Zealand. The group were found by a walker on Stewart Island earlier this week. And just a few days later a further 51 pilot whales died after becoming stranded on a beach on the Chatham Islands. While whale strandings are not uncommon they usually involve just a single animal rather than a whole group. The recent flurry of mass strandings has brought a renewed focus on the mysterious and rare phenomenon. So why does it happen? While the exact reasons remain unclear experts say many different factors could play a part. Quite often animals that turn up on a beach are getting exhausted they're malnourished or they haven't eaten because they're ill says Dr Simon Ingram a Professor of Marine Conservation at the University of Plymouth. They can be in the final stages of being ill or die at sea and end up getting washed up on a beach he adds. But Dr Ingram says that sickness or injury mainly plays a part when a single animal is found stranded. The trouble is that in a huge number of animals it's quite likely that some of them are going to be ill anyway he explains. It's also true that there have been cases where groups of healthy whales have ended up getting stranded. So what could be behind these cases? Some experts say that certain aspects of the coastline or sea bed can disorientate whales especially if they roam outside of their usual habitat. Some places like the tip of New Zealand are hotspots for stranding says Dr Ingram. Sometimes this is due to geographic features of the coastline. If there's a feature like a peninsular or headland then animals that should be in deeper waters may suddenly find themselves in a confusing shallow bay. Shallow water can pose a risk to pilot whales in particular because of the way in which they navigate and communicate. These animals forage and feed largely by echolocation says Dr Andrew Brownlow a veterinary pathologist who has undertaken post mortems on stranded pilot whales in Scotland. So they use sound to navigate and communicate and find their prey. Using echolocation in areas with very shallow silty mud is like trying to walk through a forest on a foggy day he explains It's very hard to get your bearings and see clearly. This combination of shallow waters and confused muddled echolocation is a serious danger and may lead to mass strandings. They end up coming into shallow areas and get stranded by the receding tide so the natural lay of the land is a real risk factor for these animals Dr Brownlow says. But if a single whale gets injured or lost why do they end up beached in such large numbers? Experts say the answer lies in their herd like behaviour. It's a problem you get with these very social animals that tend to for reasons we have never been clear on end up following either a sick leader onto the beach or end up getting lost as a group Dr Brownlow says. This particular species seems to be very prone to that herd behaviour. It means that if one pilot whale encounters a problem then it can have an impact on the entire group. Dr Brownlow points to one case in 2015 when around 30 whales became stranded on the Isle of Skye off Scotland's west coast. We think that was because one of the females was having trouble giving birth and was in a lot distress he explains. She came into shallow waters and all the other members of the group followed her onto the beach. Another possible cause of strandings some experts suggest is warmer water temperatures. We've had an unusual week which we haven't got to the bottom of and it's fair to say it's been an entirely unusual year Dr Karen Stockin a marine mammal scientist based at New Zealand's Massey University told AFP news agency after the latest mass stranding. I suspect a lot of that has been driven by the warmer sea surface temperatures that we're seeing at the moment. She explained That's likely affecting where the prey is moving and as a consequence we're seeing prey moving and whale species following. New Zealand's summer begins on Saturday and Dr Stockin warned that there could be more beachings to come. We're just going into stranding season now this is only the beginning of it and we're very mindful of the fact that this a very busy start she said. While Dr Stockin says that global warming may be playing apart in the rising sea temperatures most experts say that it's important not to jump to conclusions about the role of humans in these cases. Pilot whales have probably been stranding in New Zealand since before people lived there Dr Ingram says. It's probably not anything to do with what humans have done. It's a very dynamic ecosystem that these animals are in so I would be very cautious in making any connection between these examples and climate change.	False	False	False	False	False
Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs newly released Green New Deal resolution has gotten a lot of attention for its 100 percent renewable energy goal but the bill also vaguely references another source of emissions. The resolution calls for aWorld War II style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations. If thats the case that means any subsequent Green New Deal legislation would have to deal with a major source of methane emissions cow flatulence. Methane makes up 10 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for global warming. Enteric fermentation the digestive process in cows and other ruminant animals is the largest source of U.S. methane emissions according to Environmental Protection Agency EPA data. EPA says cattle account for the majority of methane emissions in the United States for this source category referring to emissions from enteric fermentation. RELATED Alexandria Ocasio Cortez Green New Deal Is About Social Justice Being a non binding resolution the Green New Deal doesnt offer any specifics on how livestock emissions would be phased down or eliminated. The question then becomes How do you eliminate emissions from cows sheep and other animals? Certainly environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of peoples diets in the name of the climate but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health. Some scientists have looked into reducing flatulence from ruminant animals. The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others. The Obama administration released a plan to clamp down on methane emissions in 2014 which included programs to cut emissions from dairy operations. Republican lawmakers worried the Obama era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers. Methane is a more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide but makes up a much smaller slice of Americas emissions profile. Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	False	False	False	False
Greenpeace founder turned climate change skeptic Patrick Moore has reignited his feud with Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio Cortez calling her a pompous little twit and garden variety hypocrite in a barrage of tweets. Moore helped found the veteran eco organization in the 1970s before parting ways with his fellow activists over their left wing politics and becoming an advocate for nuclear power and lobbyist for the forestry industry. Lately he has been tussling with New York Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio Cortez over the Green New Deal an ambitious piece of environmental legislation that seeks to dramatically overhaul Americas energy sector and economy in a bid to slash carbon output. Moore began picking the Green New Deal apart in February ridiculing its promise to remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. Technically he stated this would mean removing all H2O vapour and all CO2 which would mean the eradication of all life on Earth. The legislation has been ridiculed from all sides for its proposed abolition of air travel and fossil fuel powered vehicles as well as its estimated cost of over 50 trillion over twice the worth of the entire US economy. Ocasio Cortez has stuck to her guns however. In a tweet the Bronx Democrat told skeptics If you dont like the Green New Deal then come up with your own ambitious on scale proposal...until then were in charge. Moore hit back calling AOC a pompous little twit and claiming that if fossil fuels were banned every tree in the world would be cut down for fuel for cooking and heating. You would bring about mass death. More recently a New York Post hit piece lambasted Ocasio Cortez for using cars to get around while campaigning in New York instead of the subway system. I also fly and use AC Ocasio Cortez responded. Living in the world as it is isnt an argument against working towards a better future. The world as it is has the option of taking the subway rather than a taxi Moore continued. You're just a garden variety hypocrite like the others. And you have ZERO expertise at any of the things you pretend to know he tweeted on Sunday before calling AOC an immature bully. Ocasio Cortez more mainstream Democrat colleagues have paid lip service to the Green New Deal but have been cautious about declaring support for the plan. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi brushed it aside in an interview with Rolling Stone on Thursday saying it goes beyond what our charge is. In addition to slashing carbon emissions the deal calls for widespread wealth redistribution to counteract systemic injustices and includes provisions for universal healthcare and taxpayer funded college tuition. An early overview of the plan since removed from Ocasio Cortez website promised economic security for all who are unable or unwilling to work swore to sideline the private sector in all environmental decision making and even vowed to eliminate farting cows. Republicans argue that the deal is tantamount to full blown socialism. Its more outlandish provisions have turned it into a punching bag for the GOP who have sought to paint the Democratic party as the party of socialist totalitarianism ahead of next years election. After referring to AOC as a raving lunatic President Donald Trump said on Saturday that the deal is the new Democrat platform and I dont want to talk them out of it...I want them to embrace this plan. I just want to be the Republican who runs against them. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False	False	False	False	False
Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audiences eyes at the climate change town hall literally as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half truths and excuses. The former Vice President was clearly floundering during CNNs climate change town hall on Wednesday which saw him face off against eight other Democrats. Viewers called him out for rambling incoherent answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry. Then his left eye began filling up with blood. At around the same time his campaign cautioned voters not to turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines an ironic coincidence or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event? Before Bidens eye exploded the audience had been raking him over the coals for a scheduled fundraiser the following night at the home of a natural gas executive. The three time candidate has never been particularly committed to green issues slammed by environmental groups for not having a climate change policy he finally released one in June that contained several plagiarized items. But he had along with most of the other Democratic candidates promised not to take money from the fossil fuel industry a promise the fundraiser seemed to break to viewers dismay. But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye. Look Biden haters sometimes your eye is gonna spontaneously fill up with blood okay one user joked. Twitter furiously deploying algorithms to keep Bidens bloody corpse eye from trending observed another it appeared to work while was trending and variations thereof were noticeably not. Apparently it wasnt even the first time Bidens eye has filled up with blood during an important political event. But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment. Not sure after tonight who has less time to live Biden or the planet said one. Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding commented another. I give it 14 minutes before Bidens campaign says his bloody eye was because of climate change predicted another. Meanwhile others made the inevitable comparisons to Hillary Clinton another candidate with a marked enthusiasm gap between donors and voters who has run for president and lost before yet is propped up by the media as the surefire winner. And some took time out from gawking to worry about his health since political speeches dont normally cause visible injury. Does Biden have a blood clot in his left eye? wondered one user. This cant be good news given his health history noted another. Like this story? Share it with a friend!	False	False	False	False	False
In its report ETC insists that investments of up to 500 billion per annum would not pose a major macroeconomic challenge to nations accepting the call to fund the project. The group is made up of energy company executives activists investment bankers Al Gore and others who would financially benefit from the immense influx of funds the Daily Caller reports. According to the ETC website the groups goal is to accelerate change towards low carbon energy systems that enable robust economic development and limit the rise in global temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius. The chief avenue the group advocates to cut global warming is to force governments around the world to place an ever growing tax on carbon emissions as a means to force change in energy policy. The punishing taxes they say would cause the energy industry to seriously explore alternate energy sources and cut back use of fossil fuels. It recommends that the world cut emissions to a net zero by the year 2050 to hold back global heating. The group also calls for direct investment in green energy. ETC claims that the world must fundinvestment in renewables and other low carbon technologies some 6 trillion higher 300 billion per year while the largest required increases of almost 9 trillion 450 billion per year will be in more efficient energy saving equipment and buildings. ETC has focused its activism on the Paris climate agreement which President Obama signed onto without Senate approval. The plan was to take effect in 2016 but since coming to office President Trump has put a hold on much of the countrys compliance with the agreement. Trump has also begun considering whether or not to completely pull out of the agreement. Trumps Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt has urged the president to exit the agreement and at least one climate scientist Dr. Duane Thresher has warned Trump not to cave in to his daughters climate change madness. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter or email the author at igcolonel	False	False	False	False	False
This story was originally published by High Country Newsand is shared here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration. TheGreen New Dealand its proponents aim to tackle the intertwined issues of social and environmental justice in our age of anthropogenic climate change. To accomplish this they believe they must deploy the federal government since it is the only institution large enough to coordinate and invest in the necessary policies. But the idea of expanding the role of government has attracted critics whorail against socialism. To historians this sounds familiar. This is not the first time socialism new deals and the environment have intersected. During the catastrophe of the Great Depression of the 1930s the federal government similarly attempted to ameliorate social and environmental harms by investing in people and places through the New Deal. Then as nowcritics dismissed it as socialism. The socialist sobriquet stokes ideological fires but douses historical understanding. One prominent exampleBob Marshalls argument for nationalizing forests during the 1930sreveals how socialist solutions emerge from specific contexts and problems not ideological bunkers. In Marshalls case the dire state of private timberlands in the early 20th century prompted his call for reform. When massive problems develop cross jurisdictional lines and are associated with market failures big government responses can seem like the only possible solution. By the early 20th centuryhundreds of years of unregulated cutting had ravaged the nations forests and Americans faced a crisis that demanded intervention. Rocks and mountains may be ageless but men and society are emphatically of the present and they cannot wait for the slow process of nature to retrieve the catastrophe caused by their unthinking destructiveness wrote Marshall a forester for federal agencies throughout his career a co founder of The Wilderness Society and the person for whom Montanas Bob Marshall Wilderness Area is named. A massive evaluation of American forestry conducted by the Forest Service in 1932 both shaped and reflected Marshalls views. Appearing the next yearA National Plan for American Forestry known as the Copeland Report showed that private forests were failing. The majority of the nations timber came from privately held forests just as it does today. They burned more often were not harvested to provide a continual crop of timber failed to protect watersheds and offered few recreational opportunities compared to public forests. They caused social problems too with lumber workers doing dangerous transient jobs that resulted in mangled bodies and left hollowed out towns behind. As Marshall saw it The private owner is thus responsible for almost every serious forest problem. So Marshall argued that American timberlands should be publicly owned. In 1933 four years into the Depression and during the first year of Franklin D. Roosevelts presidency Marshall publishedThe Peoples Forests his own radical extension of the Copeland Report which advocated for public ownership of practically all commercial forests in America. He was writing amid an economic catastrophe mirrored in the nations wild and rural landscapes where bankrupted farmers out of work loggers and drought driven refugees were common not unlike today. ThroughoutThe Peoples Forests Marshall showed how private ownership even when tempered by public regulation fell short only full public ownership could keep forests and communities healthy. He united a biological and social vision for forestry one where human happiness and decent livelihoods might sprout from robust forests. In articulating that vision he made his socialist case plain The fundamental advantage of public ownership of forests over private ownership is that in the former social welfare is substituted for private gain as the major objective of management. Much the way todays Green New Deal seeks to redress both economic and environmental impoverishment Marshall sought to replace private profit with a broader public spiritedness that aimed for long term stability ending cut and run practices and ultimately strengthening communities. Marshalls call for reforms reflected an accelerating trend of expanding public lands in the 1930s when the federal government acquired millions of acres for national parks national forests andwildlife refuges. Newly passed laws like theMigratory Bird Hunting Stamp Act 1934and theBankhead Jones Farm Tenant Act 1937helped the government fund refuges acquire property for conservation and bail out private owners who lived on wrecked lands. Starting around the same time and lasting until the 1950s Forest Service administrators advocated for public regulation of logging on private land principally citing concerns about declining timber production and the threat of fire on poorly managed parcels. Though ultimately unsuccessful those efforts illustrated a push to establish stability amid unsettling crisis a goal Marshall shared. When capitalism stumbles badly producing degraded lands and gaping inequalities socialistic solutions rise in popularity because their incentives are not tied to profits. Marshalls closing line argues for that perspective The time has come when we must discard the unsocial view that our woods are the lumbermens and substitute the broader ideal that every acre of woodland in the country is rightly a part of the peoples forests. Shouting socialist as an epithet isa tired strategy a failure to reckon with specific contexts and problems whether its damaged timberlands in the 1930s or rising sea levels today.The Peoples Forestsand the Green New Deal highlight the ways social and environmental harms are woven together a reminder that real solutions require a mutual untangling and that despite American history and politics suspicion of true socialism government necessarily holds many of the threads.	False	False	False	False	False
Dozens of countries have extraordinary tropical forests but three stand out Brazil Indonesia and the Democratic Republic of Congo. These countries not only have the largest areas of tropical forest within their borders they also have the highest rates of deforestation. Dozens of countries have extraordinary tropical forests but three stand out Brazil Indonesia and the Democratic Republic of Congo. These countries not only have the largest areas of tropical forest within their borders they also have the highest rates of deforestation. We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster not just locally but globally. These trees play many ecological roles but most impressive is how they produce rainfall remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and support hundreds of other species. If these ecosystems collapse the climate effects are likely to be irreversible. And so what happens to these forests truly affects all life on Earth. This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you me and the whole world. Meet the trees get to know their superpowers and learn how scientists are trying to protect them. This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	False	False	False	False	False
BNP Paribas on Wednesday became the first big bank to pledge to stop financing natural gas fracking projects as part of a new policy cheered by environmentalists as having the greatest impact of any financial giant yet. Under the new policy Frances largest bank will refuse to lend to companies who generate more than half their revenue from fracked oil gas or liquefied natural gas export terminals. The rules also apply to tar sands considered one of the dirtiest sources of oil. Multinational banks including BNP Paribas began putting strict limits on funding for coal projects in 2015. At that point coal was becoming an unprofitable investment and banks faced mounting pressure from environmentalists to stop supporting the dirtiest fuels in the lead up the Paris climate agreement. Last month JPMorgan Chase became the target of a new campaign urging it to end financing for companies that drill tar sands a particularly dirty source of oil that forms the backbone of Canadas industry. Until now no financial giant has clamped down on natural gas which produces far less carbon dioxide than oil or coal. The fuel now provides most of the United States electricity and is credited with reducing emissions by weaning the country off coal. That has allowed advocates to tout the gas as a critical tool in the transition from heavily polluting fuels to renewable energy. But fracking an extraction technique that involves shooting a highly pressurized chemical and sand laced water into shale rock to extract oil and gas has become a lightning rod for environmentalists. It produces toxic wastewater and leaks emissions of methane a far more most potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide. And the process of liquefying natural gas from vapor requires so much energy it ends up being as dirty as coal. The scientific literature on the climate impact of gas especially fracked gas is emerging Jason Disterhoft a senior campaigner at Rainforest Action Network told HuffPost by phone. Now that the prices of solar and wind energy were plummeting theres less need to use natural gas as a stepping stone between dirtier fossil fuels and renewables he added. BNP Paribas offered few details on its new policy including when it would go into effect though it said it should have an update by the end of the year. Europes second largest bank also said that companies could continue to receive backing if they lower the amount of revenue earned from fracking or tar sands to less than half their business. The exact ratio has not yet been decided a spokeswoman said. Even though were going to have this policy in place doesnt mean at the same time well right away cut all the clients that dont fall under it Mylene Benmoussa a BNP Paribas spokeswoman told HuffPost by phone on Wednesday. Its going to be a gradual and shared transition. The bank had not not yet calculated how many clients would be affected by the new policy and could not immediately respond to questions about how much money is invested in the targeted sectors. France banned fracking in 2011. The country generates 11 percent of its electricity from gas according to data from RTE the French transmission operator. And the government in Paris announced plans last month to prohibit oil and gas production by 2040. For a bank in the regulatory environment BNP Paribas is facing an aggressive climate policy makes business sense. Yet the announcement garnered praise from three environmental groups that teamed up to pressure BNP Paribas to curtail support for fossil fuels that pose a particular threat of exacerbating climate change. The trio includes the San Francisco based Rainforest Action Network the French chapter of Friends of Earth and Save the Rio Grande Valley from Liquefied Natural Gas a local Texas group protesting the construction of a liquefied natural gas terminal in the states southern region. Still the move represents a public relations victory for a bank plagued by scandals in recent years. In 2015 the company was ordered to pay 8.9 billion to the U.S. for violating sanctions against Sudan Cuba and Iran. In June three human rights groups accused BNP Paribas of complicity in the 1994 Rwandan genocide that killed more than 800000 people. In July the Federal Reserve fined the firm 246 million for its unsafe and unsound practices in foreign currency trading division failing to crack down on employees who violated rules on sharing information with competitors. Were a long standing partner to the energy sector and were determined to support the transition to a more sustainable world BNP Paribas CEO Jean Laurent Bonnaf said in a statement.As an international bank our role is to help drive the energy transition and contribute to the decarbonization of the economy.	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON Andrew Wheeler is no longer the acting director of the EPA following the Senate's vote Thursday to make him the official head of the environmental regulatory agency. The Senate narrowly confirmed Wheeler 52 47 largely along party lines with Republicans in support and Democrats againsthim. While leading President Donald Trump's deregulatory agenda Wheeler also has emphasized the agency's work to clean up Superfund sites and for the first time begin regulating a set ofharmful chemicalsfound in drinking water systems that serve millions of Americans. Mr. Wheeler has proven his ability to advance pragmatic solutions to pressing environmental challenges Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell R Ky. said on the Senate floor before the vote. Maine Sen. Susan Collins was the lone Republican to oppose Wheeler's confirmation. While calling Wheeler certainly qualified for this position Collins said some of the policies he has proposed as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation. A former EPA bureaucrat who also served as an influential Capitol Hill stafferand an energy lobbyistWheeler hadbeen acting administrator of the agency since July when he replaced Scott Pruitt who left under an ethical cloud. When Trump nominated Wheeler for the official post in November the president praised him for performing a fantastic job. Though not as controversial or ethically compromised as PruittWheeler is opposed by a number of environmental groups who sharply criticize the president's aggressive efforts to undo Obama era rules they say are designed to protect the environment and address climate change. It's a sad day for public health and the EPA but missionaccomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries Ken Cook president of the Environmental Working Group said in a statement following the vote. They have longed for one of their own to call the shots at the agency and now they finally have their man in Andrew Wheeler. At his confirmation hearing in January Senate Democrats grilled Wheeler about his agency's proposals toroll back mercury emissions standards weaken clean water regulations and scrap Obama era climate change rules. Related President Trump made the right pick for EPA Sen. Barrasso Shortly after taking over in July Wheeler's EPA moved aheadwith a planto do away with the Obama era Clean Power Planand replace it with aproposed rule to set state guidelines for power plant emissions of greenhouse gases that contribute to a warming planet. And his agency finalizedrevisions to a 2015 Obama era rule regulating thedisposal of coal ashthat gives states and utilities what he called much needed flexibility to manage their waste. He alsorecommended freezing miles per gallon standards for cars and light trucks after the 2020 model yearand preventing California and other states from setting tougher standards saying it will improve safety andkeep prices lower for consumers. We haven't slowed downand we haven't missed a step Wheeler told senators in August. As you can see we're continuing the president's agenda post haste.	False	False	False	False	False
Chew On This Farmers Are Using Food Waste To Make Electricity This story was produced as part of a collaboration with the PBS NewsHour As the season of big holiday meals kicks off it's as good a time as any to reflect on just how much food goes to waste. If you piled up all the food that's not eaten over the course of a year in the U.S. it would be enough to fill a skyscraper in Chicago about 44 times according to an estimate from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. And when all this food rots in a landfill it emits methane a powerful greenhouse gas that contributes to climate change. In fact a recent report from the United Nations from a panel of climate experts estimates that up to 10 percent of all human made greenhouse gas emissions are linked to food waste. So here's one solution to the problem Dairy farmers in Massachusetts are using food waste to create electricity. They feed waste into anaerobic digesters built and operated by Vanguard Renewables which capture the methane emissions and make renewable energy. The process begins by gathering wasted food from around the state including from many Whole Foods locations. We visited the chain's store in Shrewsbury Mass. which has installed a Grind2Energy system. It's an industrial strength grinder that gobbles up all the scraps of food the store can't sell explains Karen Franczyk who is the sustainability program manager for Whole Foods' North Atlantic region. The machine will grind up all kinds of food waste everything from bones we put whole fish in here to vegetables to dry items like rice or grains Franczyk says as the grinder is loaded. It also takes frying fats and greases. While Whole Foods donates a lot of surplus food to food banks there's a lot waste left over. Much of it is generated from prepping prepared foods. Just as when you cook in your own kitchen there are lots of bits that remain such as onion or carrot peel rinds stalks or meat scraps. The grinder turns all these bits into a slurry. It really becomes kind of a liquefied food waste Franczyk says. From here the waste is loaded into a truck and sent to an anaerobic digester. There's no question it's better than putting it in the trash Franczyk says. She says the chain is committed to diverting as much waste as possible and aims for zero waste. In addition to food donations Whole Foods composts this waste to energy system is yet another way to meet its goal. We really do like the system she says. We visited Bar Way Farm Inc. in Deerfield Mass. Owner Peter Melnik a fourth generation dairy farmer showed us how his anaerobic digester which is installed next to his dairy barn works. We presently take in about a 100 tons of waste which is about three tractor trailer loads every day Melnik says. In addition to all the food waste from Whole Foods he gets whey from a Cabot Creamery in the area as well as waste from a local brewery and a juice plant. In the digester he combines all of this waste with manure from his cows. The mixture cooks at about 105 degrees Fahrenheit. As the methane is released it rises to the top of a large red tank with a black bubble shaped dome. We capture the gas in that bubble. Then we suck it into a big motor Melnik explains. Unlike other engines that run on diesel or gasoline this engine runs on methane. This turns a big generator which is creating one megawatt of electricity continuously Melnik says enough to power more than just his farm. We only use about 10 percent of what we make and the rest is fed onto the electricity grid Melnik explains. It's enough to power about 1500 homes. He says times are tough for dairy farmers so this gives him a new stream of revenue. Vanguard pays him rental fees for having the anaerobic digester on his farm. In addition he's able to use the liquids left over from the process as fertilizer on his fields. The digester has been a home run for us Melnik says. It's made us more sustainable environmentally and also economically. Vanguard Renewables hopes to expand its operations in the state and elsewhere. There's more than enough food waste in Massachusetts to feed all of our five digesters plus many more says CEO John Hanselman. Massachusetts has a state law that prohibits the disposal of commercial organic waste including food by businesses and institutions that generate at least one ton of this waste per week. This has created an incentive for food businesses to participate in the waste to energy initiative. Hanselman points to Europe where there are thousands of digesters in operation. His hope is that the concept will spread here. The food waste recycling through anaerobic digestion could be done in every part of the country Hanselman says. The company is currently building an anaerobic digester on a farm in Vermont. The gas produced there will be piped to Middlebury College which will help the college reduce its carbon footprint.	False	False	False	False	False
But Pruitt has also been a reliable ally for President Donald Trump who made easing regulations on American industries a central campaign promise and the EPA administrator has proposed a slew of rollbacks for major environmental rules including those governing clean air and water and fighting climate change. Put together Pruitt's moves some of which have been challenged in court represent an attempt to fundamentally restructure the EPA's role in Washington and are a sharp rebuke of the environmental legacy of former President Barack Obama. Here are some of Pruitt's key changes Like others in the Trump administration Pruitt has repeatedly highlighted uncertainty about the role that humans have played in global warming a view that is at odds with the vast majority of scientific evidence. Last month the EPA circulated talking points instructing its staffers to say clear gaps exist in understanding whether human activity contributes to climate change. The EPA also removed references to climate change from several webpages according to an analysis by the Environmental Data and Governance Initiative. The weakening of automobile standards which is a win for car manufacturers and a blow to environmentalists also sets up a fight between the Trump administration and the state of California which says it plans to stick with the stricter rules. Proposing an overhaul of Obama era initiatives on coal ash In March the EPA proposed changes to the Obama era directive regulating coal ash waste giving states and utilities more power to manage their own disposal of it. The proposal according to The Washington Post includes more than a dozen changes for how coal ash which remains when coal is burned in power plants and electricity is generated is stored at coal fired power plants nationwide and would let states change how frequently they test for groundwater contamination. The decision was praised by industry officials who had called on Pruitt to revisit the rules but environmental groups said he was caving to special interests in the coal industry. The EPA announced in January that it was withdrawing the once in always in policy under the Clean Air Act that dictated how major sources of hazardous air pollutants are regulated. The decades old policy was opposed by fossil fuel companies but environmental groups argued that its withdrawal would result in more pollution. The EPA announced in January that it would suspend the Waters of the United States rule which was designed to limit pollution in roughly 60 of the country's bodies of water. Critics said the rule was overly broad in classifying waterways that are subject to federal rules while supporters see it as a necessary protection for example preventing fertilizer runoff from tainting streams and drinking water. Pruitt announced in October his decision to withdraw from the Clean Power Plan the Obama era rule intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from power plants across the country. The Clean Power Plan had a goal of decreasing the country's carbon pollution by roughly one third by 2030 compared with 2005 levels. Under Pruitt the EPA tried to suspend an Obama era rule to restrict methane emissions from new oil and gas wells. But a federal court ruled in August that the EPA must enforce the Obama administration's regulation. Pushing to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord Pruitt pushed the White House to leave the Paris climate deal stood beside the President in the Rose Garden when he announced the decision and after the President spoke offered his own remarks. The move was condemned by global leaders and was seen by many as a setback to efforts to address global warming.	False	False	False	False	False
Nineteen of the 25 Democratic presidential candidates have gone on record in favor of holding a debate devoted to climate change policy. In the past three days four more candidatesincluding Kamala Harrishave told Mother Jones that they support a climate debate raising the stakes for the Democratic National Committee which has so far resisted allowing such an event to take place. In addition to the California senator New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio former Rep. John Delaney Md. and former Rep. Joe Sestak Pa. are now calling for a climate debate joining big name candidates including Joe Biden Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren. Earlier this year the DNC announced plans to hold a dozen primary debates in 2019 and 2020 and to prohibit candidates from appearing in any debates that had not been approved by the national party. In April climate activistslaunched a grassroots campaign demanding that one of the debates be dedicated to climate they noted that presidential debate moderators had a long history of giving short shrift to the issue. Its not just because activists want to vet candidate platforms and solutions but because even getting candidates to talk more about an issue can raise the issues profile. The activists quickly won support from Washington Gov. Jay Inslee who has put global warming at the center of his campaign. But the DNCs line all along has been that it wouldnt hold any issue specific debates. The controversy reemerged after the first round of Democratic debates last week. Climate received 15 minutes of discussion over two nights but the largely superficial discussion of the issue only seemed to strengthen the activists case as key policy proposals such as the Green New Deal and 100 percent renewable energy mandates were virtually ignored. DNC officials spent the weekend reconsidering the matter. The result was a pair of resolutions that could come up for a vote at the partys August meeting. One proposal backed by DNC executive committee member Christine Pelosi and others would create a climate debate. A separate resolution which Pelosi described as less ideal would call for a forum in which candidates would appear individually to address climate policy. A third way forward she suggested might include an effort to survey party members about which issues deserve a standalone debate. It was somewhat ironic we DNC officials spent more time debating climate in our debate on Saturday than the candidates did Wednesday and Thursday Pelosi said. If a climate debate does happen much of the credit will belong to activist organizations like the US Youth Climate Strike a teen led group that has pressured candidates into endorsing the efforts. They plan to join with another youth oriented group Sunrise Movement to keep up the pressure throughout the summer. Still six candidates either havent taken a position on a climate change debate or didnt respond to requests for comment in time for publication. They are Sen. Cory Booker who called for more time to be devoted to the issue after the first debate Montana Gov. Steve Bullock former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper Wayne Messam the mayor of Miramar Florida California Rep. Eric Swalwell and author Marianne Williamson. Heres what each of the candidates have said Biden addressed a Greenpeace activist at a campaign rally in Ottumwa Iowa on June 11 Thats what we should be doing he said. Im all in man. Take a look at what Im talking aboutand by the way the first climate change plan in the history of the Congress? The campaign confirmed his position to Mother Jones in July. He tweeted in response to a Youth Climate Strike activist The candidate tweeted a video of her reading a letter from an activist asking her to sign a petition for a climate change debate. Im up for that she said. She also backed Inslees pushback against the DNC Harris communications director told Mother Jones Shes said she is happy to debate. Harris previously hadnt said publicly that she supports a climate change debate. Buttigiegs campaign did not clarify the candidates position on a debate but a staffer says he plans to continue to address the issue of climate change at every debate and every event that he attends. ORourkes campaign did not respond to a request for comment in time for publication to confirm Youth Climate Strikes tweet Booker supports more climate change discussion but the campaign toldMother Jones that the decision is in the hands of the DNC. John supports having a climate debate his communications director wrote in a July 1 email. Climate has been a big part of our campaign and we mentioned our carbon fee and dividend plan during the debate last week. A DNC debate focused on climate change would show the world that America intends to lead again on this issue and would be a smart place to discuss the key tenets of the Green New Dealinfrastructure green jobs and clean air and waterand how to put a price on carbon she told the Daily Beast. Bennet toldPolitico he thought a climate debate would be great. Inslee was the first candidate to endorse a climate change debate on April 17 launching his own petition aimed at the DNC. I cannot rule out any other debate that would highlight both the necessity of defeating the climate crisis and calling for the candidates to step up to the plate Inslee said in an interview with Mother Jones. Sixty second sound bites which is all youll be able to get in a party debate is grossly inadequate to the task. The candidate wrote on Wednesday in an email to Mother Jones How could you not? It is the most destructive threat to America and mankind.	False	False	False	False	False
Why progressives refuse to live by their own Earth Day bluster George Monbiot recently expressed a carefully calibrated environmental message that allows people on the environmental left to feel self righteous without making any real sacrifice. In a video that was shared widely including by celebrities such as James Corden the British writer argues that the only way to help the environment is to change the big structural political economic stuff. Monbiot concludes that we need to go straight to the heart of capitalism and overthrow it. At the same time he dismisses pathetic micro consumerist bollocks which just isnt going to get us anywhere. This is absolution for those who want to feel green but cant be bothered with going to the effort and expense of actually living their own values. Publicly advocating the do as I say not as I do approach reinforces the reality that conservatives tend to live out the environmental ethic that the Left only preaches. As a conservative who has worked in environmental policy for two decades I have been frustrated watching as ideological fellow travelers avoid environmental topics even as they privately express their commitment to environmental stewardship. As the Left becomes more detached from responsible and effective environmental solutions conservatives should confidently fill the void. One reason conservatives do not engage is that environmentalism has become synonymous with horrible government policy. Every Earth Day we are treated to theatrical images of marches featuring unhinged activists demanding action on a range of environmental issues. Clever hashtags are generated. Alarmist slogans are flaunted. Naked people glue themselves to park benches. And all who disagree with the demands for more government power are denigrated as deniers. The other 364 days of the year however people on the left do little in their daily lives to justify all that environmental browbeating. A study by researchers at the University of Michigan and Cornell University found that those who are highly concerned about climate change are least likely to report individual level actions to reduce their environmental impact. Those who considered themselves skeptical of climate change were most likely to report engaging in individual level pro environmental behaviors. To be sure not all conservatives are skeptical of climate change but generally we arent nearly as alarmist about climate change or other environmental issues even when we recognize the risk. That gap between the Lefts loud talk and their unwillingness to make personal sacrifices is not an accident. It is now part of their dogma. Individual actions are mere bollocks useless gestures. Only the sacrifices made by others will make a difference. This dichotomy is evident in my home state of Washington where politicians pride themselves on showing leadership in the effort to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. This year our legislature enacted a law requiring the state to meet a 100 percent renewable energy target by 2045. Environmental activists tweeted their support saying they demand action now and worrying about the climate crisis. Ironically though many who demand action do little of it themselves. For only a few dollars a month anyone who supports renewable energy can already buy renewable energy credits RECs ensuring that there is enough renewable energy on the grid to cover their personal use. I asked one politician pushing for the 100 percentrenewable requirement if she buys RECs to cover her environmental impact. She admitted that she does not and has no plans to do so. This is consistent with the message of Monbiot and political leaders pushing the Green New Deal. Personal sacrifice is of little consequence so why even try? Even as they call for an end to air travel politicians who demand we impose lifestyle change have not curtailed their own carbon producing travel despite living in the era of HD video conferencing. The most effective environmental efforts are often small personal actions in which people have skin in the game. Farmers find ways to conserve water because waste costs money. Aluminum cans are lighter today because it saves resources and they cost less to ship. Homeowners and businesses conserve energy because they pay the price for every kilowatt hour. When they dont save they change course unlike politicians who fear public embarrassment and throw good money after bad. This isnt just a theory. The amount of energy per unit of GDP in the United States has fallen steadily for several decades. There are no sharp drops. Instead the improvement is gradual and constant as individuals and businesses find ways to squeeze a bit more out of their energy use. Politicians can lecture all they want but these are truly the front lines of environmental stewardship. As Earth Day 2019 came and went the pattern of environmentalists demanding action that they themselves wont take predictably repeated itself. The pattern of conservatives avoiding talk of environmental stewardship even as they live it every day however is a pattern we should break. Effective environmental policy doesnt start with politicians and publicity stunts. Conservatives understand this. We should make it clear that personal environmental stewardship is not only more effective it is a more moral way to live.	False	False	False	False	False
The office issued news releases relating to investigations at a dizzying rate with less emphasis on follow through or actual results said Caroline Polisi a white collar defense lawyer who has appeared as a legal commentator on cable news shows. But Ms. Polisi added that there had been considerable substance to a number of Mr. Schneidermans investigations as well as some major successes. Mr. Schneidermans big accomplishment in going after Wall Street were the billions of dollars in penalties that he helped secure from big banks that had sold flawed mortgage backed bonds during the run up to the financial crisis. He ensured that some of that money went to help communities across the state that were overrun by abandoned houses and foreclosures often referred to as zombie homes. His legal team was one of the first in the nation to target banks for sponsoring nontransparent trading platforms called dark pools which allowed high speed trading firms to take advantage of investors. In 2016 Mr. Schneiderman and the Securities and Exchange Commission announced a 154 million settlement with Barclays and Credit Suisse to resolve allegations that the banks had permitted traders to misuse their dark pool platforms. Three years ago he opened an investigation with the Massachusetts attorney general into whether Exxon Mobil deliberately misled the public and investors about the impact of climate change. In 2015 Mr. Schneidermans office opened an investigation into the mortgage practices of Caliber Home Loans a fast growing lender but has said nothing about the inquiry since then. A spokeswoman said that the office generally avoided providing details about the number of open investigations. But Barbara Underwood who was named New Yorks acting attorney general on Tuesday said in a statement that the offices work continues without interruption. Mr. Schneiderman over the past year has positioned himself at the vanguard of legal challenges by state attorneys general to the Trump administrations efforts to roll back regulation especially environmental rules. Last month he and more than a dozen states sued the E.P.A. for failing to properly control methane pollution a greenhouse gas.	False	False	False	False	False
Senate Democrats used the Wednesday confirmation hearing of Andrew Wheeler the acting administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to push him on the agencys negligence on climate change its rollback of regulations designed to protect Americans health and his uncannily close ties to the fossil fuel industry. Do you agree with the scientific community that climate change is a global crisis? Sen. Bernie Sanders I VT asked Wheeler repeatedly. I would not call it the greatest crisis no sir Wheeler responded. I consider it to be an issue that has to be addressed globally. Substantively I think you have your thumb wrist forearm and elbow on the scale Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse D RI told Wheeler referring to Wheelers past work as a coal lobbyist. Some Republicans raised concerns about climate change as well. At a few points the hearing was interrupted by protesters and chants of shut down Wheeler not the EPA. Eight protesters were arrested. Wheeler for his part emphasized in the hearing before the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee that the EPA was revising Obama era environmental regulations like the Clean Power Plan and the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards to comply with court rulings. It was a signal that he plans to continue to methodically advance Trumps agenda but in a much less bombastic way than former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt who resigned last year in disgrace after numerous allegations of ethics violations. Some Democrats even praised Wheeler for his collegiality and for being much more accessible than Pruitt. However others said he was tilting regulations in favor of the sectors the EPA is supposed to regulate for instance weakening pollution regulations on coal fired power plants. Before his work as a coal lobbyist Wheeler was a staffer at the EPA and on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. He was also an Eagle Scout and emphasized his love of hiking and camping. I do consider myself a conservationist he said. Unlike Pruitt Wheeler did acknowledge that humans are driving changes in the climate and that it must be addressed. When Sen. Jeff Merkley D OR asked Wheeler how he rated climate change in importance on a scale of 1 to 10 Wheeler said it was 8 or 9. Yet global emissions continue to rise and scientists recently warned that were running out of time to accelerate the global effort to limit warming to a less disastrous level. Instead of joining this effort the EPA is working to relax rules on emissions. And given that Wheeler answers to President Trump who has dismissed climate change as a concern its unlikely well see any radical changes at the EPA anytime soon. The Senate is expected to confirm Wheeler soon as the new head of the agency in a vote. Several Republicans brought up climate change during the hearing noting their concerns about the rise of carbon dioxide emissions in the United States in 2018 which Wheeler had disputed. We heard that there was an emissions rise in 2018 which you attributed to a cold winter a hot summer and also to more economic activity said Sen. Shelley Moore Capito R WV. You said you expect that to go down over time. What gives you the confidence that if this economy continues to roll the way we think it will that will actually happen? Wheeler said that greater energy efficiency in the power sector along with fuel economy standards would continue to drive down emissions. Sen. John Barrasso R WY suggested that technology is the main solution to greenhouse gases and asked Wheeler about the EPAs role in fostering innovation and using tactics like capturing carbon dioxide to extract more oil or make building materials. Wheeler said that all of EPAs programs encourage innovation. One thing thats important on the regulatory side is that we dont try to tip the scale one way or the other for example on energy sources he said. That Republicans are acknowledging climate change at all is a sign that the political winds on the issue have shifted and they can no longer afford to be passive on the issue if they want policies on their terms. And innovation seems to be the key thread uniting Republican responses to climate change. As my colleague David Roberts pointed out coming up with new technologies is indeed a key aspect of fighting climate change but for Republicans it may be a way to head off more ambitious climate policies. Already momentum is building in the House for taxing carbon as well as a Green New Deal to fight climate change. During the hearing Democrats revealed some of their strategy to pressure the EPA on climate change going forward. Since they lost seats in the Senate Democrats emphasized key state level disputes like the fight between California and the EPA over fuel economy standards. Vehicles are a huge source of greenhouse gas emissions and California wants to retain its authority to set tighter emissions rules than the rest of the country. The Trump administration wants one standard for the country as well as a much more relaxed fuel economy target than the one proposed under President Obama. Lawmakers from both sides also lamented the ongoing partial government shutdown. Most of the EPAs 13000 employees are furloughed but some are still on the job to deal with responses to disasters like the fallout from Californias wildfires last year. Some employees were also recalled to help the EPA meet court ordered deadlines for producing environmental regulations. Under these circumstances its not possible for EPA to do its mission said Sen. Ben Cardin D MD. I want to underscore how tragic this shutdown is.	False	False	False	False	False
Spurred by what they see as a sluggish ineffectual response to the existential threat of global warming student activists from around the world plan to skip school today for what organizers call a Global Climate Strike. The focus for young activists is the United Nations Climate Action Summit taking place Monday in New York City. The strike's figurehead is 16 year old Swedish activist Greta Thunberg who traveled from Sweden to New York on an emission free sailboat. A little over a year ago Thunberg began her school strike for the climate by herself outside the Swedish Parliament. Support for a school climate strike has since spread across the globe. In the last year Thunberg has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize by Norwegian lawmakers. She's also met with Pope Francis and lawmakers in several countries. We are currently on track for a world that could displace billions of people from their homes Thunberg warned this week during a speech accepting Amnesty International's Ambassador of Conscience Award. She ended her acceptance speech with a call to action See you on the streets! In New York City thousands of students may fill the streets with Thunberg because as the school district announced on Twitter it is giving strikers excused absences. In Oregon Portland Public Schools is doing the same. Strikes also are planned in rural areas where just a few dozen protesters are expected. Nicholas DuVernay 17 organized a protest in his politically conservative small town of La Grande Ore. Since probably the beginning of my junior year in high school I've been interested in climate science and pretty passionate about environmental topics says DuVernay who plans to study climate science when he attends college next year. A Washington Post Kaiser Family Foundation poll this week shows a majority of teenagers believe human caused climate change will cause harm to them. And a quarter of the poll respondents said they have participated in a school walk out a rally or contacted a government official on the issue. There have been similar student events in the past year. But this time students are asking adults to join them. At the University of Nevada Reno Stallar Lufrano Jardine 36 is setting up an event on campus where she's an employee and student. I'm bothered by the lack of movement to make meaningful advances to solve the climate crisis says Lufrano Jardine. But it's clear younger people are leading this movement and they say most adults especially policy makers are moving far too slowly. Strike organizers have a list of demands that includes respect of indigenous land sustainable agriculture protecting biodiversity environmental justice and a just transition away from fossil fuels and towards renewable energy said 17 year old Baltimore resident and organizer Nadia Nazar. Many of those demands are part of the Green New Deal which was crafted by progressive Democratic lawmakers but so far hasn't gone anywhere in Congress. At a Capitol Hill press event this week Nazar said she hopes the proposal defines her generation. I am not a part of Generation Z. I am a part of Gen GND the generation of the Green New Deal said Nazar as supporters cheered. Also on Capitol Hill this week Thunberg and other activists testified before lawmakers. Louisiana Republican Rep. Garret Graves told them climate change has exacerbated the loss of his state's coastline. I agree that we need to take aggressive action. I agree that we need to ensure that we move forward in a sustainable rational manner said Graves. But his idea of what that means is very different than the activists' vision. Graves agrees with President Trump on the need to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement. Graves told the student organizers the pact allows China to continue emitting more carbon dioxide while the U.S. cuts emissions. Paris and its related pledges would undermine U.S. competitiveness his spokesman said. Graves got immediate push back from the young activists including 17 year old Jamie Margolin from Seattle who asked how Graves will respond to questions from his children and grandchildren about whether he did enough to address climate change. Can you really look them in the eye and say 'No sorry I couldn't do anything because that country over there didn't do anything so if they're not going to do it then I'm not.' That is shameful and that is cowardly Margolin said. Organizers predict this climate strike will be the largest yet. More than 2000 scientists around the world have pledged to join. Some companies also have signed on including Patagonia and Seventh Generation.	False	False	False	False	False
A Green Island moss bank with icebergs.Credit Matt Amesbury Antarctica is a cold white continent at the bottom of the world. Or so it has been for thousands of years. New evidence points to a sharp increase in biological activity in recent decades across the Antarctic Peninsula resulting in large swaths of newfound greenery. Published in the journal Current Biology a new study found major increases in Antarctic moss growth over the past 50 years which the team of researchers attributes to temperature rises in the region. another clear sign that the biology of the planet is changing as a result of warming temperatures said Professor Dan Charman of the University of Exeter who led the research project. surprised us was just how rapid the changes have been and the fact that they are very unusual when compared with growth rates in the late 19th and early 20th century. Charman said their evidence shows just how fast Antarctic land surface can change along with climactic changes. The Antarctic Peninsula is among the most rapidly warming areas in the world with temperatures having increased by almost three degrees Celsius over the last 50 years. In March a research base near the northern tip of the Antarctic peninsula set a heat record of 17.5 degrees Celsius 63.5 Fahrenheit. Currently plant life only exists on about 0.3 of Antarctica. Charman said that while as the Arctic warms a variety of plant life and soil organisms can migrate north in Antarctica there are no nearby land areas for species to colonize from. But while no new natural plant life is anticipated existing plant life such as Antarctic hairgrass and Antarctic pearlwort could occupy new ice free ground as glaciers retreat. Dr. Matt Amesbury also of the University of Exeter said there were two main findings to take from their new study scale and temperature sensitivity Before now studies have been from single sites but using a transect of sites weve been able to show that this significant response to climate change is pervasive across the whole of the Antarctic Peninsula. The second important point is our finding which suggests that moss growth has been highly sensitive to temperature change since the 1950sunder future warming scenarios this means we are likely to see a greening of the Antarctic Peninsula both in terms of further increases in growth rates and also expansion of mosses and other plant life. 	False	False	False	False	False
Lab grown meat has been successfully cultured in space for the first time. The Israeli food technology startup Aleph Farms grew the meat on the International Space Station 248 miles 399 km away from any natural resources. Bovine cells were harvested on Earth and taken to space where they were grown into small scale muscle tissue using a 3D bioprinter. The method relies on mimicking a natural process of muscle tissue regeneration occurring inside a cows body. The experiment took place on 26 September on the Russian segment of the space station and involved the assembly of small scale muscle tissue in a 3D bioprinter under controlled microgravity conditions. In future the technique could be used to provide meat for people living on the space station. The development marks a further step forward for a nascent industry that aims to provide people with real meat without the environmental impact and welfare problems of intensive livestock production. In December Aleph Farms announced it had produced a prototype strip of steak grown from cells in the lab in two weeks although it admitted the taste needed to be improved. We are proving that cultivated meat can be produced anytime anywhere in any condition said Didier Toubia co founder and chief executive of Aleph Farms. We can potentially provide a powerful solution to produce the food closer to the population needing it at the exact and right time it is needed. In space we dont have 10000 or 15000 litres of water available to produce 1kg of beef added Toubia. This joint experiment marks a significant first step toward achieving our vision to ensure food security for generations to come while preserving our natural resources. Recent scientific studies have found that huge reductions in meat eating are essential in order to cut greenhouse gas emissions and avoid dangerous climate change. One found that avoiding meat and dairy products was the single biggest way to reduce an individuals environmental impact on the planet.	False	False	False	False	False
Energy and investment executives who met with Pope Francis earlier in June stood mostly in agreement that a tax on carbon emissions is the best path forward to combating climate change. Pope Francishosted a two day summit at the Vatican on June 8 and 9 inviting key players in the oil and gas industry for a back and forth discussion on climate change. The leader of the Catholic Church encouraged executives to give up fossil fuels and embrace renewable energy technology. The meeting was just the latest in a series of public moves the pope has made against traditional forms of electricity production. Most who took part in the summit agreed that afee on carbon emissions is pivotal in reforming the U.S. energy sector according to an Axios report. Ernest Moniz who served as an energy secretary under the Obama administration took part in the summit and said one of the areas of focus was carbon pricing to create market incentives for the transition to a low carbon system. Key members who met with Pope Francis includeExxonMobil Chief Executive Darren WoodsBP CEOBob Dudley Equinor CEOEldar Saetre and numerous others. The idea of a carbon tax a fee charged onto companies according to the amount of carbon emissions their plants emit into the atmosphere has been recommended as a market friendly method to controlling CO2 pollution. While carbon tax proposals appeared popular at the Vatican it has not garnered the same amount of support in Congress. Majority Whip Steve Scalise and West Virginia Rep. David McKinley introduced a House resolution in April that explicitly condemns a tax on carbon dioxide pollution. RELATEDPope Criticizes Oil Executives Silent On Ireland Legalizing Abortion In a public letter of support for Scalises resolution a group of conservative organizations claimed thata carbon tax would ultimately result in a loss of jobs and higher electricity bills For example a 2014 Heritage Foundation report found that a 37 per ton carbon tax would lead to a loss of more than 2.5 trillion in aggregate gross domestic product by 2030. That is more than 21000 in income loss per family a portion of the letter read. In addition a carbon tax would cost over 500000 jobs in manufacturing and more than 1 million jobs by 2030. According to a 2013 CBO report a carbon tax is highly regressive. House members have yet to vote on the anti carbon tax resolution. However the lower chamber of Congresspasseda similar version in June 2016 collecting six Democratic votes and zero Republicans opposition. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	False	False	False	False
Reuters The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will unveil a proposal to speed state level permitting decisions for energy infrastructure projects soon the agencys chief told Reuters on Thursday blasting states that have blocked coal terminals and gas pipelines on environmental grounds. President Donald Trump is seeking to boost domestic fossil fuels production over the objections of Democrats and environmentalists concerned about pollution and climate change. On Wednesday he issued a pair of executive orders targeting the power of states to delay energy projects. We started working on it in advance so we hope to have something out soon EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said in an interview. He was unable to provide a precise timeline. Based on Trumps orders Wheelers EPA has been tasked with clarifying a section of the U.S. Clean Water Act that has allowed states like New York and Washington to delay projects in recent years. New York has used the section to delay pipelines that would bring natural gas to New England for example and Washington state has stopped coal export terminals that would open the Asian market for struggling coal companies in Wyoming and other landlocked western states. They are trying to make international environmental policy Wheeler said of Washington state whose governor Democrat Jay Inslee is running for president on a climate change focused platform. Theyre trying to dictate to the world how much coal is used. Wheeler said New York which amid strong public pressure denied a clean water act permit for construction of a natural gas pipeline to New England is forcing that region to use Russian produced natural gas. We are importing Russian natural gas which is not produced in an environmentally conscious manner. If the states that are blocking the pipelines were truly concerned about the environment they would look to where the natural gas would be coming from I think its very short sighted he said. Wheeler said the EPA would not prevent a state from vetoing a project but would clarify the parameters they should be able to consider and the length of time they have to do so. He also said that California is playing politics in its fight with the EPA to preserve its more stringent vehicle emission standards as the national standard. Wheeler said he believes climate change is a problem but that it had been overblown by former President Barack Obamas administration at the expense of other bigger issues like water quality. Yes climate is an issue and we are working to address it but I think water is a bigger issue he said. Wheeler dismissed the findings of a report released earlier this week by EPA scientists in the journal Nature Climate Change that detailed the scale and urgency of climate change. He said while he encouraged EPA scientists to carry out and publish research he stressed the recent paper did not reflect EPA policy. Environmental groups say the EPAs replacement of an Obama era rule limiting carbon emissions from power plants would likely lead to increased emissions by allowing older more polluting coal plants to operate longer. Asked whether the replacement the Affordable Clean Energy rule which gives states responsibility for regulating emissions is stringent enough Wheeler said it adheres to the parameters of federal law. I think what is effective regulation is one that follows the law and one that will be held up in court he said. Several Democrats challenging Trump in the 2020 election have made climate change a top tier issue embracing aggressive policy platforms like the Green New Deal calling for an end of fossil fuels use. Asked whether he was concerned that the EPA may be out of synch with polls showing an overwhelming number of young people believe climate change should be a priority issue Wheeler was dismissive. I do fear that because so many people only talked about climate change. Youre right there could very well be a new generation coming up saying thats the only environmental issue and its not he said.	False	False	False	False	False
The New York Times has taken warnings about global warming to a whole new level publishing a three part series suggesting a potential apocalypse from melting ice sheets if humans keep pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. If that ice sheet were to disintegrate it could raise the level of the sea by more than 160 feet a potential apocalypse depending on exactly how fast it happened NYT reporter Justin Gillis wrote of what some scientists predict could happen to Antarctica. Gillis points to recent research suggesting the collapse of the ice sheet will become inevitable likening the projected 160 foot sea level rise to flood stories from the Epic of Gilgamesh tothe Bibles Old Testament. In the Epic of Gilgamesh waters so overwhelm the mortals that the gods grow frightened too Gillis wrote In Indias version Lord Vishnu warns a man to take refuge in a boat carrying seeds. In the Bible God orders Noah to carry two of every living creature on his ark. I dont think the biblical deluge is just a fairy tale Terence Hughes a retired glaciologist told Gillis. I think some kind of major flood happened all over the world and it left an indelible imprint on the collective memory of mankind that got preserved in these stories. That flooding would have occurred at the end of the last ice age Gillis reported. Of course he left out the part about Antarctic ice sheet melting taking place over a couple thousands years. Now the research Gillis points to is a worst scenario based on a Parallel Ice Sheet Model as reported by scientists in a 2015 study. Models can be useful tools to test complex climate interactions but they are still projections not facts. That 2015 study found half the Antarctic ice sheet would melt or fall into the sea in the first thousand years based on model projections according to a previous NYT report. The first installment of Gilliss three part series claimed Antarctica may have entered the early stages of an unstoppable disintegration but later in the series admitted the glacier NYT reporters toured with scientists seems stable now. Even so the effects of any current global warming on Antarctica are unclear. The South Poles western ice sheet has been shedding mass for decades but part of that has to do with underground volcanic activity and the fact the ice sheet rests on water. Recent evidence suggests the Antarctic peninsula has been cooling since the late 1990s. A recent study found the region has shifted from a warming trend of 0.32 Cdecade during 19791997 to a cooling trend of 0.47 Cdecade during 19992014. Antarcticas eastern ice sheet seems more stable and may have even been gaining mass in recent decades. A 2015 study by NASA found Antarcticas ice sheet increased in mass from 1992 to 2008. The study found ice gains in Eastern Antarctica offset ice loss from the west. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	False	False	False	False	False
One of the attorneys heading New York Citys climate litigation made comments in September that could seriously harm the citys mission to sue oil companies for contributing to global warming. New York Citys climate lawsuits are ultimately designed to target the industrys financial bottom line Susan Amron the chief of the environmental law division of the New York City Law Department said at a Sept. 26 panel discussion during the Climate Week NYC. Sowere not saying you cant use fossil fuels thats a different part of the citys efforts Amron said during the panel noting also that the lawsuit is designed to impress on companies the need to internalize the costs fossil fuels impose on cities. She appeared to contradict herself a few sentences later telling the audience that the intent is really to eliminate the oil industrys license to operate. Andreally what were trying to do is affect the bottom line the financial equation for the use of fossil fuels she said. We just acted and I want to urge every city every county every state to do the same divest. Divest from the fossil fuel industry De Blasio told the Vermont Democrat at the time. Lets help bring the death knell to this industry thats done so much harm. The lawsuit was dismissed in July a handful of months after De Blasio made his comment. Judge John Keenan wrote in hisopinionat the time that legislative branch was the appropriate arena to address global warming. NYCs lawsuit does appear to suggest the intent is not to destroy but rather to mitigate harm. The City does not seek to impose liability on Defendants for their direct emissions of greenhouse gases anddoes not seek to restrain Defendants from engaging in their business operations the city wrote in its complaint. Amrons admission will likely create challenges forthe citys appeal which is slated to begin in front of the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals soon. Neither Amron nor New York Citys Law Department have responded to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for an explanation about the lawsuit is designed to hammer the oil industry or for mitigation purposes. Other climate lawsuits across the country are similarly on the ropes. Cities in California Colorado and Rhode Island have also filed similar lawsuits against energy producers over the past year. They argue that Exxon and others should pony up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change. A judge dismissed lawsuits in Oakland and San Francisco arguing that the U.S. Congress is only the governmental body responsible for enacting policies needed to mitigate global warming. Manufacturers and conservative groups worry trial attorneys are behind the spat of climate litigation. Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings called a contingency fee.RELATED Trial Lawyers Handling Cities Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions Hagens Bermanstood to earn billions of dollarsin contingency fees depending on the total winnings from a favorable judgement against oil companies. The three cities claimed billions of dollars worth of damage from global warming induced by fossil fuels.	False	False	False	False	False
If We Bring The Good Life To All Will We Destroy The Planet? Our blog often features stories about efforts to improve life for this planet's 7 billion inhabitants How to make sure everyone has access to clean water and power medical care to stay healthy enough income to feed their kids education for the children so they can fulfill their potential. But a new study in the Journal Nature Sustainability poses a question not often considered If we were to succeed in providing all this what would be the cost to the environment? In other words can our planet actually sustain the good life for all? As we improve the human condition building sanitation facilities and expanding farming to provide more food for example we necessarily damage the environment. We cut down trees we put fertilizers in the soil that kill off aquatic life we pump carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. So to figure out if we can meet everyone's basic needs without destroying the planet we need to know For each bit of progress on the human front how much harm is done on the environmental side? To find out Daniel O'Neill an economist at the University of Leeds in the United Kingdom and several collaborators came up with 11 indicators that a country has met the needs of its citizens. They range from boosting life expectancy above age 65 to ensuring that at least 95 percent of its adult population has graduated from high school has access to sanitation and earns more than the extreme poverty line of 1.90 a day. Then they looked at seven key ways in which humans damage the environment. For each of these scientists have calculated what degree of damage would put the planet at risk. In the case of carbon emissions for instance the threshold is the total amount that humanity can emit before we will cause the planet to warm enough to trigger catastrophic weather changes. From that we can calculate a carbon budget for the rest of the century notes O'Neill. And then dividing that by the number of people on the planet we can say 'okay this is the carbon budget per person.' Then they analyzed the data on 150 countries to determine how they scored on both the environmental and the social fronts. The hope was to find at least a few examples of countries that were simultaneously delivering the good life to their citizens while staying within their per capita boundaries for environmental damage in other words using natural resources at a rate that would be sustainable even if every person on the planet matched it. Unfortunately we really didn't find that says O'Neill. Instead says O'Neill generally the countries that do well on the social indicators do so by consuming resources at a level that could not be extended to all people on the planet. These include Germany the Netherlands and Austria. And the countries that do well on the environmental indicators in other words that are consuming resources at a sustainable level don't do well on the social indicators. Examples include Malawi Yemen and the Philippines. There are also five countries that do damage above all seven of the environmental boundaries even as they fail to achieve all 11 social indicators. This includes the United States which misses the mark when it comes to income equality and employment. China is arguably in even worse shape. It exceeds its per capita limits on five of the seven environmental thresholds yet only delivers on three of the social measures. Only one country comes even close to delivering the good life in a sustainable way Vietnam succeeds on six of social indicators including a life expectancy above 65 years and providing sufficient nutrition while staying within its limit on every environmental threshold except carbon emissions. What does this all mean for humanity? It's a worrying finding says O'Neill. But he cautions against concluding that there's simply no way for everyone to enjoy a decent life without destroying the planet. After all these findings are based on how we are doing things now he says. We certainly hope it's possible to do things better to achieve a high level of human well being at a much lower level of resource use. And he adds that this study actually points to one way to do that. Specifically O'Neill and his fellow researchers ran statistical tests to determine for each environmental measure how much damage it takes to produce a corresponding improvement on each of the social well being indicators. And what we find is that it follows a curve of diminishing returns as you use more resources you get less social bang for your buck says O'Neill. So there's a turning point after which additional resource use contributes very little to social performance. Wealthy industrialized nations such as the United States the United Kingdom and Canada have now reached that point says O'Neill. As we increase our resource use we get almost no increase in human well being from that. And this means the strategy of growing the economy basically trying to create new wealth to boost the well being of its underprivileged citizens is ineffective. A much better approach argues O'Neill would be to focus on redistributing the wealth we already have more equitably. And if high income countries were to adapt such a philosophy says O'Neill they could reduce their use of resources. And that he says would free up the ecological space for poor nations for whom using resources still does make a big impact in improving people's lives.	False	False	False	False	False
Upside down rivers of warm ocean water may be one of the causes of Antarctica's ice shelves breaking up leading to a rise in sea levels. A new study suggests that in the past increases in Antarctic sea ice in colder climates may have contributed to ice ages. Using computer simulations the research looked at past changes during the glacial periods and noted that previous increases in sea ice levels may have significantly altered the circulation of the ocean which led to a reverse greenhouse effect as carbon dioxide levels in the ocean increased and levels in the air decreased. One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement. We are pretty confident that the carbon balance between the atmosphere and ocean must have changed but we dont quite know how or why. ANTARCTICA'S ICE SHEETS CONTAIN RADIOACTIVE CHLORINE GAS 60 YEARS AFTER NUCLEAR TESTS STUDY SAYS The last major ice age ended at the end of the Pleistocene epoch about 11700 years ago as glaciers have periodically grown and then gotten smaller. Researchers believe that changes to the Earth's orbit may be partly responsible for some of the Earth's cooling but additional factors have likely played a part Jensen added. The most plausible explanation is that there was some change in how carbon was divided between the atmosphere and the ocean Jansen continued. Theres no shortage of ideas about how this happens but its not quite clear how they all fit together. Researchers also believe a mini ice age may have occurred roughly 12800 years ago. It likely stems from an asteroid impact that rocked the Northern Hemisphere and led to the Younger Dryas climate event. Jansen pointed out that the Southern Ocean around Antarctica plays a key role in ocean circulation due to the deep waters in the region leading it to have outsized consequences. AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING NEW STUDY FINDS What this suggests is that its a feedback loop said the study's lead author Alice Marzocchi. As the temperature drops less carbon is released into the atmosphere which triggers more cooling. What surprised me is how much of this increased storage can be attributed to physical changes alone with Antarctic sea ice cover being the key player Marzocchi added noting that future study of the ocean and the role it plays in the carbon cycle can help simulate future environmental change. The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events. It was only about past events.	False	False	False	False	False
Environmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi this past December. They plan more sit ins to push for support of a sweeping resolution to address climate change. J. Scott ApplewhiteAP hide caption toggle caption J. Scott ApplewhiteAP Environmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi this past December. They plan more sit ins to push for support of a sweeping resolution to address climate change. J. Scott ApplewhiteAP For a nonbinding resolution with an uncertain future the Green New Deal Green New Deal FINAL is getting a lot of attention along with a decidedly mixed reaction. Dozens of Democrats on Thursday introduced alexandria ocasio cortez releases green new deal outlinethe measure an ambitious framework for future legislation designed to eliminate the U.S. carbon footprint by 2030. Our energy future will not be found in the dark of a mine but in the light of the sun said Sen. Ed Markey D Mass. as he announced the legislation on Capitol Hill. The resolution has few details but it aims to overhaul the U.S. economy and spread wealth more evenly. It calls for a speedy shift in energy generation from fossil fuels to renewable sources like wind and solar and for a fair and just transition for all communities and workers. Much of the early criticism revolves around the scope of the plan which backers say is big to match the challenge of the climate change problem. All great American programs everything from The Great Society to The New Deal started with a vision for our future said co sponsor Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. But this vision is for an extremely near term future. I'm afraid I just cannot see how we could possibly go to zero carbon in a 10 year time frame former Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz tells NPR's All Things Considered. Moniz now CEO of Energy Futures Initiative agrees that the U.S. needs to pick up the pace of its shift away from carbon but he calls the decade long time frame impractical. He worries it could turn off key constituencies needed in the climate effort including labor unions oil companies and the business community. I'm afraid I just cannot see how we could possibly go to zero carbon in a 10 year time frame. Ernest Moniz former energy secretary and CEO of Energy Futures Initiative The Green New Deal doesn't even mention some of the usual ideas for addressing climate change such as a carbon tax or cap and trade program. Instead it calls for lots of spending to create among other things infrastructure and transport that don't rely on fossil fuels. Environmental groups generally support the resolution. It is a breath of fresh air to see leaders in Congress discussing climate solutions that rise to the scale of the challenge said Aliya Haq federal policy director for the Climate Clean Energy Program at the Natural Resources Defense Council in a statement 1. But some groups were disappointed the plan doesn't call for a complete end to using fossil fuels. We have 12 years according to science if we're going to meet the challenge of the climate crisis. And to do that we have to tackle fossil fuels head on. And the resolution just doesn't quite get us there says Nicole Ghio senior fossil fuel program manager at Friends of the Earth. The oil industry says it's already reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the electricity sector as coal plants switch to natural gas. They need to do a whole lot more homework These days transportation accounts for the largest share of greenhouse gas emissions greenhouse gas emissions. Green New Deal backers say they want more high speed trains to make airline travel less necessary and more electric cars and charging stations. But experts warn that changing the existing fleet of cars in the U.S. would be an extraordinary effort. There's 350 million liquid fuel cars on the road today in the United States and most Americans don't buy a new car except every decade says Amy Myers Jaffe director of the program on Energy Security and Climate Change at the Council on Foreign Relations. Green New Deal backers say they also want to eventually phase out nuclear energy which currently supplies 20 percent of electricity in the U.S. The Nuclear Energy Institute argues in a statement nei statement on green new deal that its electricity is carbon free and should be a part of any program addressing climate change. The proposal takes aim at methane from cows too. Methane is an especially potent greenhouse gas and cows produce a lot of it. But the beef industry is at a loss to respond because of the lack of details in the Green New Deal. They need to do a whole lot more homework and much more research and analysis before we can ever even really engage in this discussion says Colin Woodall senior vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association. So far the plan's biggest success may be that it's energizing thousands of young activists. A group called the Sunrise Movement held a Web meeting with supporters email green new deal livestream recordingemailreferreremail490282emailsubjectgreen new deal livestream recording around the country Tuesday. Jeremy Ornstein 18 says he deferred going to college to work with the organization. Ornstein is among the Sunrise Movement organizers who plan three weeks of activism including lobbying members of Congress to sign onto the Green New Deal. And we're going to give our elected officials a deadline. They've got to get an answer to us by Feb. 26 or face the consequences warns Ornstein. He says activists around the country will occupy members' offices in what the group calls a nationwide day of action. Given the scope and ambitious nature of the Green New Deal it might be tempting to criticize or dismiss activists supporting it. But Amy Myers Jaffe hopes older more experienced policymakers won't do that. We need not to discourage them she says. They have an energy and will to innovation that is not only infectious but inspiring. And she says that could be what's needed to address a problem as daunting as climate change. 	False	False	False	False	False
Trump speaking to reporters aboard Air Force One on Thursday after touring damage from Hurricane Irma on Florida's west coast said we've had bigger storms than this when asked about climate change. If you go back into the 1930s and the 1940s and you take a look we've had storms over the years that have been bigger than this Trump said. If you go back into the teens you'll see storms that were as big or bigger. So we did have two horrific storms epic storms but if you go back into the '30s and '40s and you go back into the teens you'll see storms that were very similar and even bigger OK? In response to this story a White House aide pointed CNN to a recent NOAA report that found that it is premature to conclude that human activities ... have already had a detectable impact on Atlantic hurricane or global tropical cyclone activity. That same report however found that human activity may have already caused changes and that global warming will likely cause tropical cyclones globally to be more intense on average and lead to an increase in the occurrence of very intense tropical cyclones. Trump campaigned on a platform that rejected much of the scientific community's findings on climate change arguing that the Obama administration used climate science too often to restrict business growth. Trump pulled out of the Paris Climate accords earlier this year and had previously had called climate change a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese. Trump's comments Thursday go against the hyperbolic language he used in the lead up and aftermath of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma. Hurricane Irma is of epic proportion perhaps bigger than we have ever seen Trump tweeted as Irma moved closer to Florida. Earlier this month he tweeted Hurricane looks like largest ever recorded in the Atlantic! And on Thursday in Florida before his comments aboard Air Force One about climate change Trump said the people of Florida experienced something the likes of which we can say really say nobody's ever seen before. They've never seen a category like this come in because it came in really at a five he said. Top Trump administration officials have repeatedly dodged questions about how climate change affected the damage done by hurricanes Harvey and Irma saying the issue should be discussed at a later date. said last week it was insensitive to address global warming at this time. said last week it was insensitive to address global warming at this time. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt said last week it was insensitive to address global warming at this time. Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget told CNN that climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media. And both FEMA administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering when asked Tuesday whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of the storms. Trump's visit to tour hurricane damage on Thursday was his second trip in as many weeks. Trump toured the Houston area earlier this month after Hurricane Harvey brought massive flooding to the city. The storm and subsequent damage could end up being the costliest natural disaster in US history.	False	False	False	False	False
PresidentDonald Trumpproclaimed himself an 'environmentalist' Monday after missing a climate changediscussion on Monday with other world leaders at the G7 summit in Biarritz France. At a press conference the president said he knows 'more about the environment than most people' in part due to his time as a builder when environmental concerns often pose last minute roadblocks to a project. At a summit where relentless fires in the Amazon provided a backdrop Trump did not respond directly when asked if he still harbored doubts about global warming vouching for his environmental credentials by pointing to numerous environmental impact statements he has been involved with. 'I went the cleanest water on earth. I want to cleanest air on earth. And that's what we're doing. I'm an environmentalist' Trump told reporters at the end of the summit. 'A lot of people don't understand that I have done more environmental impact statements probably than anybody that's I guess I can say definitely because I've done many many many of them. More than anybody that's ever been president or vice president or anything even close to president. And I think I know more about the environment than most people' he said. Trump was referencing his time as a builder when an environmental review is part of the construction process. Although he steered clear of the global warming debate after long expressing doubts Trump touted the value of U.S. oil and liquified national gas reserves and called for new infrastructure to harness it. He said the domestic industry is creating 'tremendous wealth and LNG is being sought over all over Europe and all over the world.' 'Im not going to lose that wealth. Im not going to lose it on dreams on windmills which frankly arent working too well' Trump said once again taking a shot at a growing renewable energy source. 'I want clean air. I want clean water I want a wealthy country. I want a spectacular country with jobs with pensions with so many things and that's what we're getting so I want to be very careful at the same time at the same time it's very important to me very important to me we have to maintain this incredible this incredible place that we've all built. We've become much richer country and that's a good thing not a bad thing because that great wealth allows us to take care of people' Trump said. He concluded his remarks with some environmental boosterism. 'We can take care of people that we couldn't afford taking care of the past because of the great wealth we can't let that wealth is taken away clean air clean water thank you very much everybody I appreciate it thank you' he concluded. Trump was scheduled to attend the session on climate biodiversity and oceans but his chair remained empty while other leaders pledged a modest 20 million to help put out fires that are raging across wide swaths of the Amazon jungles in Brazil. 'He wasnt in the room but his team was there' French President Emmanuel Macron said. The White House attributed his absence to scheduled one on one meetings that he attended withIndia's Prime Minister Narendra Modi andGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel both of whom managed to attend. 'The President had scheduled meetings and bilaterals with Germany and India so a senior member of the Administration attended in his stead' White House Press Secretary Stephanie Grisham told DailyMail.com and other news outlets. A White House official said the stand in was an aide from the National Security Council. Trump started the morning behind schedule. His meeting with Merkel was delayed about two hours. Asked about the global warming meeting during a photo op with Merkel the president said 'Were having it in a little while.' He had no reply to a journalist who informed him that it was already underway. During his meeting with Modi Trump said that he wants 'clean air and clean water' but made no comment about his decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate accord. He did offer however that the climate change discussion would be his next stop. That never materialized. Trump is a climate change skeptic who once claimed it was a hoax invented by the Chinese. United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres said Monday that the world faces 'a dramatic climate emergency.' He will ask leaders at a Sept. 23 summit in New York to agree to cut greenhouse gas emissions by more than they promised in the 2015 Paris agreement. Guterres said Monday that 'we are much worse than we were during Paris ... and so it's absolutely essential that countries commit themselves to increase what was promised.' Guterres claimed that Greenland's ice cap was melting 'dramatically' and that 2015 through 2019 were 'the five hottest years on record.'	False	False	False	False	False
According toDaniel Rothman professor of geophysics in the MIT Department of Earth Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences and co director of MITs Lorenz Center we are fast approaching thresholds of catastrophe in the carbon cycle which make doom almost inevitable. In a paper published today inScience Advances he proposes that mass extinction occurs if one of two thresholds are crossed For changes in the carbon cycle that occur over long timescales extinctions will follow if those changes occur at rates faster than global ecosystems can adapt. For carbon perturbations that take place over shorter timescales the pace of carbon cycle changes will not matter instead the size or magnitude of the change will determine the likelihood of an extinction event. Taking this reasoning forward in time Rothman predicts that given the recent rise in carbon dioxide emissions over a relatively short timescale a sixth extinction will depend on whether a critical amount of carbon is added to the oceans. That amount he calculates is about 310 gigatons which he estimates to be roughly equivalent to the amount of carbon that human activities will have added to the worlds oceans by the year 2100. If we get a repeat of the Great Dying 275 million years ago what this means basically is that we are all going to die. Even you. But before you ring up your grandchildren and warnthem to cancel the marquee theyve booked for their 100th birthday celebrations perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothmans cheery prediction. First lets not forget it that itis flatly contradicted by the recent bombshell study suggesting that the effects of carbon dioxide on global warming have been overstated that the computer models are running too hot and that were not about to fry any time soon. Second Rothman appears to have given himself so much margin for error as to render his doomsday projection meaningless. Does this mean that mass extinction will soon follow at the turn of the century? Rothman says it would take some time about 10000 years for such ecological disasters to play out. However he says that by 2100 the world may have tipped into unknown territory. This is not saying that disaster occurs the next day Rothman says. Its saying that if left unchecked the carbon cycle would move into a realm which would be no longer stable and would behave in a way that would be difficult to predict. In the geologic past this type of behavior is associated with mass extinction. R i g h t. So what youre saying Dr Rothman is that youre allowing plus or minus 10000 years leeway for this mass extinction which wont definitely happen but which may happen. Do you know what? Even though Im not a professor of geophysics at MIT I think even I could have come up with a scientific theory as rock solid and testable as that one.	False	False	False	False	False
What is the goal of a funeral? Is it to pay tribute to a life lost? To commit the soul of the decedent to his final reward? Or an opportunity to extolyour passion for environmental justice? A recent Vox piece by Dean Peterson states with dogged solemnity that modern burials are awful for the environment and has an accompanying video whose combination of animation the veneer of open mindedness and a vocally inflective narrator discreetly blurs the line between providing information and outright advocacy. Its yet another instance of the environmentally conscious Left virtue signaling about the negative effects of nearly everything human beings do Not even the way we mourn our dead is safe from their parade of moral superiority. The piece and video discuss the environmental effects of American funerals with their caskets embalming fluid and grave sites. The piece claims the average burial costs up to 12000 though the National Funeral Directors Associations most recent report indicated average costs almost 3500 less than that. Either way thats a lot of money of course but the point is not to expiate upon the market forces driving prices in the funeral industry. What is most remarkable is the pieces bizarre stance on this debate Petersons primary concern appears to be getting rid of Grandma with as small of a carbon footprint as possible rather than reverence intergenerational remembrance or even concern for the grieving. We all hold a hierarchy of values. For most people of good conscience the value of a human beings life supersedes that of our dog or a backyard plant. We make decisions every day accordingly. We routinely delay temporal pleasure for example in the hopes of attaining goals we hold in higher esteem such as when we diet exercise or volunteer. Each individual has values good and bad and they often remain in tension with one another. It is after all the measure of ones moral fitness to value some things say forgiveness over others vengeance. What makes radical environmentalism and its private jet flying propagators so toxic a cultural beast is how high on its adherents totem pole they are willing to place environmental concerns often over some of the most elemental human needs and desires. The wish to have additional children for example is a cause for deep apprehension among environmentalists who seem all at once indifferent and tone deaf to how out of touch such a sentiment is. In this Vox piece it appears that some environmentalists have shifted focused to the other side of lifes journey death and more specifically how we bury our loved ones. For most normal people funerary concerns are primarily about memorializing the deceased within the reasonable bounds of ones budget. Petersons video notes that in this strange race to the environmental bottom some advocates believe burying Aunt Lisa in a casket is an alarming degradation of the environment some might even want her tossed straight into the ground. Maybe he suggests readers could consider freezing their bodies with liquid nitrogen or having their ashes turned into a coral reef. Its an odd calculus at play in the authors mind where the ultimate barometer of a funerals efficacy is its environmental impact statement. Its totally legitimate to criticize modern burials on its face the piece seems a cogent critique of excesses in the funeral industry. But what is particularly troubling about Voxs article is its larger point that we as humans must give perpetual deference to some vague conception of environmentalism at most any cost. As the oft repeated refrain goes is environmentalist hysteria the inevitable fate of a society that ceases to believe in God? When organized religion fades and its would be adherents are left to search for meaning does the god of the environment end their search for a moral authority? Pardon the extended biblical analogy but Voxs piece sounds more than a bit like Judas Iscariots laments about the funeral rituals performed on Christ. When Mary Magdalene anoints Christ with perfumes and oil as a pre burial ritual on a night leading up to His execution a livid Judas berates her gesture protesting that the money used to buy the perfume could have been spent on the poor. Johns Gospel provides the relevant addendum He did not say this because he cared about the poor but because he was a thief as keeper of the money bag he used to help himself to what was put into it. That statement not only describes Judass moral disorder but also reminds the audience that any concern holy as it may be poverty reduction environmental protection or any other earthly mission that does not give a preferential deference to God His creation and acts of beauty such as that of Mary Magdalene are sure signs of misaligned priorities. This piece from Vox forces us to ask the question At what point does genuine concern for the environment turn into a power grab so vicious that one would rather soak Grandpa in liquid nitrogen than give him a proper burial? John Hirschauer is a senior economics studentat Fairfield University a columnist for the Fairfield Mirror and the host of The Outlet with John Hirschauer radio program.	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON The Environmental Protection Agency is drawing heat for pulling its scientists from a paneldiscussion Monday in Rhode Island as part of a conference spotlighting the effects of climate change on the Narragansett Bay. The withdrawal of the two scientists as well as an agency consultanthas sparked fresh criticism about EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt'sskepticism toward the broad scientific community's conclusion that human caused global warming is a proven fact and a growing concern. The conference where the scientists were scheduled to speak coincidedwith the release of a report showing the threats of climate change to NarragansettBay the 196 square mile estuary whose watershed encompasses 1705 square miles with more than100towns and cities that are home to nearly 2 million people. Climate change is affecting air and water temperatures precipitation sea level and fish in the Narragansett Bay region the report which was partially funded by the EPAconcludes. Narragansett Bay is one of 28 estuaries that make up the National Estuary Program an EPA program designed to protect and restore the water quality and ecological integrity of estuaries of national significance. Rhode Island's two U.S. senators Democrats Jack Reed and Sheldon Whitehouse criticized the EPA's decision during an appearance Monday at the conference in Providence R.I. This has traditionally been a bipartisan issue Whitehouse said citing former Rhode Island GOP Sen. John Chafee's role establishing the estuaryprogram. So there is no reason for it to have to be this way. And it should not take away from the terrific scientific work that is being done because at the heart of all this is not the politics its the knowledge. Reed said he was disheartened and disappointed that the EPA scientists were not allowed to publicly present their findings. This type of political interference or scientific censorship whatever you want to call it is ill advised and does a real disservice to the American peopleand public health. Scientific evidenceand input iscrucial to policy efforts. It informs decision makers. We can debate the issues we can have different viewpointsbut we should all be able to objectively examine the data and look at the evidence ... Now is not the time to turn a blind eye to what science is telling us that climate change and other factors are influencing the health of this estuary ... I hope the Trump administration will look at the facts read this report and reconsider its stance on trying to muzzle scientists who present evidence that doesn't conform to their political agenda. The EPA has not responded to a request for comment. Agency spokesmanJohn Konkus told The Washington Postin an email Sunday that EPA scientists are attending they simply are not presenting it is not an EPA conference. The agency officials initially scheduled to speak during the conference areAutumn Oczkowski a research ecologist at the EPAs National Health and Environmental Effects Research Laboratory Atlantic Ecology Division in Rhode Island andRose Martin a postdoctoral fellow at the same EPAlaboratory according to The New York Times which first reported the story. Emily Shumchenia an EPAconsultant was also scheduled to take part in an afternoon panel titled The Present and Future Biological Implications of Climate Change. Analysis Is the war on coal really over?	False	False	False	False	False
In the wake of Hurricane Irma the New York Times advanced the climate change agenda from every angle in Tuesdays edition. First up the paper featured more odd respect for religion from its colorful left wing reporter Jason Horowitz in Pope in the Air Puts Foot Down on Climate Change Denial and DACA Reversal. The text box The pontiff says pro life believers must defend the unity of the family. And another Times reporter stuck up for the tasteless global warming warriors using Hurricane Irma to forward climate change. A paper loathe to credit Christianity for pro life or traditional marriage views readily broadcasts the left wing views of Pope Francis and in particular his bashing of Donald Trump As he flew near Caribbean islands devastated by Hurricane Irma on his way back to the Vatican from Colombia on Sunday Pope Francis said that political leaders and others who denied climate change reminded him of a passage from the psalms about mans stubbornness. Man is stupid the Bible said he said. Its like that when you dont want to see you dont see. In a typically wide ranging news conference that included his questioning of United States President Donald J. Trumps commitment to issues of life because of his plan to strip undocumented immigrant children of protections from deportation the pope urged those who denied climate change to consult scientists who had clearly determined it was real and that humanity would go down if global warming was not recognized and addressed. Then he said decide and history will judge the decisions. During Mr. Trumps May visit to the Vatican the pope gave him a copy of his 2015 encyclical letter Laudato Si which called for a human response to global warming and top Vatican officials appealed to the president not to withdraw from the landmark Paris climate accord. Weeks later Mr. Trump pulled out of the agreement. It wasnt just global warming. Horowitz also used Pope Francis to criticize Trumps move to end DACA On the flight the pope nevertheless appealed again to Mr. Trump this time on his decision to end President Obamas Deferred Action for Children Program known as DACA. The program allows children brought illegally to the United States to stay without fear of deportation. Mr. Trump has given Congress which has failed to pass immigration overhaul for the last decade six months to enact legislation to resolve the status of about 800000 people affected by his decision. When the Times doesnt challenge a pro life message better read closely. I hope they rethink it a bit he said. Because I heard the U.S. president speak. He presents himself as a man who is pro life. If he is a good pro life believer he must understand that family is the cradle of life and one must defend its unity said Francis who in the past has said that advocates like Mr. Trump of a wall to keep out migrants on the Mexican border were not Christian. Horowitz showed himself not so fond of more conservative Catholics in an August report for the Times in which he made common cause with a piece making the rounds of Catholic intellectual circles singling out ultraconservative Trump supporting conservatives as dangerous From the Vatican a Warning Shot for Hard Line Catholics in the U.S. Meanwhile reporter Lisa Friedman on Tuesday used a comment from the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to stick up for the tasteless global warming warriors now using the tragedy of Hurricane Irma to forward their environmental agenda in For E.P.A. Chief Discussing Climate After Storms Is Insensitive. The text box Concerns that the U.S. is dodging questions on global warming. Friedman found a Republican to mouth concern over climate change and promptly teed him up in paragraph two while instantly identifying her by party something the paper consistently fails to do with Democrats in trouble Scott Pruitt the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency says it is insensitive to discuss climate change in the midst of deadly storms. Toms Regalado the Republican mayor of Miami whose citizens raced to evacuate before Hurricane Irma says if not now when? For scientists drawing links between warming global temperatures and the ferocity of hurricanes is about as controversial as talking about geology after an earthquake. But in Washington where science is increasingly political the fact that oceans and atmosphere are warming and that the heat is propelling storms into superstorms has become as sensitive as talking about gun control in the wake of a mass shooting. Ben Kirtman a professor of atmospheric science at the University of Miamis Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science said he believes failing to discuss climate change hurts Florida and the entire country. Dr. Kirtman and Dr. Berry are among a group of Florida scientists who confronted Governor Rick Scott in recent years for his refusal to acknowledge that human made greenhouse gases are driving climate change. Last year they wrote a letter to then candidate Donald J. Trump asking for a meeting to discuss the consequences of climate change in Florida. They said the Trump campaign never responded. In Florida scientists say Gov. Scotts aversion to even the words climate change have prompted scientists to self censor their work. If you write a proposal and it talks about fixing some infrastructure because of climate change its not going anywhere Mr. Kirtman said. You spend an awful lot of effort word searching your document for the words climate and change. Its silliness. That is one reason many scientists maintain it is critical to use the megaphone that the dual devastation of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma has provided. People they note are finally paying attention. Friedman cited an obscure news source to make her case of benighted Republicans ignoring the obvious facts of climate change	False	False	False	False	False
Before I address that question I just stumbled upon an article in the August 1 Washington Post. There the Post updated its truth squad totals on Donald Trump 4229 false and misleading statements in 558 days. I then reflected upon Anderson Coopers infamous April 17 2018 CNN interview of Jim Jordan. In that interview a fumbling Jordan firmly insisted to Coopers amazement that he never heard Trump lie. This is the same Jim Jordan who less than three months later saw no evil and heard no evil in the Ohio State sex scandal that victimized some of Jordans former wrestling students. I wondered to myself how Jordans credibility would hold up when cross examined in court on this issue now that these incredible statements are in the public domain. No wonder Trump loves Jordan! Every word Trump speaks is the Truth in Jordans world. Sure Jordans a politician and all politicians lie at some time or anothersee Adams . But its quite another thing when you live your entire Congressional career as one big liea lie that causes long term harm not only to the folks living in your district but the country as a whole. Nowhere is that lie more obvious than in Jim Jordans approach to global warming and general environmental issues. And heres why Jordan will live on in villainy. In July 2008 after being in Congress for a year and a half Jim Jordan was the first member of Congress to sign the No Climate Tax Pledge. Yes the first to sign his initial salvo in an unrelenting fight he wages against our planet. The pledge or vow is the product of Americans for Prosperity the conservative political advocacy group funded by David and Charles Koch. This is the outfit that went to war with the Obama Administration initiatives to combat global warming. The promise itself is significant for a couple of reasons 1 it opposes any legislation relating to climate change that includes a net increase in government revenue 2 it drives the final nail in the coffin of environmental bipartisanship which had been the norm for decades. Lets take a closer look at this. First 71 of Americans now think that most scientists believe global warming is occurring 68 of Americans believe global warming is caused by human activities. March 14 2017 Gallup poll. Record percentages of Americans are now concerned about global warming. I would predict the same percentages of belief would apply to Jordans Ohio 4th Congressional District plus or minus a few points. But Jordan wanted to be the first congressman in the USA to sell out the voters of a congressional districtnever mind it had to be his own. He couldnt wait to curry favor with the Koch boys and sign on the dotted line. What hes really saying is Regardless how bad it gets how severe the droughts how out of control the forest fires how strong the tornadoes and hurricanes how hot the summers how cold the winters how deep the floods how devastating the blizzards how much the ice caps melt how high the oceans rise I will not vote to tax tariff or otherwise increase revenues to cap the use of fossil fuels unless that money is cut or borrowed from somewhere else in the budget. And in Jordans case that would be Social Security Medicare education health care and the like Programs that benefit folks in his district. So from that July day in 2008 Jordan waged his own war on the environment Voting to bar greenhouse gasses from Clean Air Act rules voting against enforcing limits on carbon dioxide global warming pollution against tax incentives for renewable electricity and energy conservation against curtailing subsidies for oil and gas company exploration but voting in favor of opening the Outer Continental Shelf to oil drilling. The League of Conservation Voters National Environmental Scorecard awarded Jordan a perfect 0 score for his 2017 record and a lifetime score of 4 for his work. The saddest part of this story however is the depth weve descended into the abyss of partisanship on environmental issues. These were matters that we have historically agreed on if for no other reason than the sake of our children and grandchildrens future. For example in 1969 Congress passed the landmark National Environmental Policy Act NEPA. This revolutionary piece of legislation unanimously passed the Senate the vote in the House was 372 Years with only 15 Nays. Nixon signed it into law on New Year's Day 1970. Now thanks to guys like Jordan NEPA would not even be brought to the floor for a vote if it were introduced in todays Congress. In contrast Janet Garrett by philosophy an environmentalist will push for and support an agenda that will guarantee clean water clean air and the reduction of greenhouse gasses. Garrett knows the value of Environmental Protection on those who knowingly violate our statutes Janet will push for criminal enforcement. Garrett will defend our National Park system and public lands as she understands the need to preserve the earth for her children and grandchildren. To Janet this is a moral issue. Please support Janet Garrett in her efforts to replace Jordan in Congress.	False	False	False	False	False
CNN just posted an article about rising sea levels. Its good to know that the editors are much smarter than President Donald Trump or his equally climate denying Environmental Protection Agency Commissioner Scott Pruitt. The EPA matters because climate change is right up there with the national debt as a threat to national security. The DoD in a recent report says that rising sea levels will put more than a thousand military installations in serious jeopardy. But CNN is wrong in their projections. Ive just returned from Antarctica on a research trip to validate the most likely temperature and sea level rise projections in the ClyFy novel Im writing. 3F of average temperature increase and three feet of sea level rise by 2050. The scientists all agreed these were plausible. I commented Two feet by 2100? Get real. 3 feet by 2050. Talk to me after Cat 6 hurricanes blanket the Caribbean every year. Last year was just a preview. Pay attention CNN. Sea level rise is accelerating. One witty Facebook user quipped I will be dead by that time so who cares? I thought he was being sarcastic but he turned out to be dead serious. And there you have it. This is why deniers exist. They dont want to spend their own money to solve a problem that might affect their grandkids and not themselves. Its pure unadulterated selfishness. They cant accept the truth of that so they deny the science of climate change. The equation that is most dangerous according to Jeffrey Kluger of Time is n1 otherwise stated as If it matters to me it counts. If not I dont give a damn. Trump and Pruitt and others of their ilk might have greed and corruption as motives. But n1 applies to them too.	False	False	False	False	False
Any proposal to avert the climate crisis must include a full fracking ban on public and private lands Sanders said Wednesday ahead of CNNs seven hour climate change town hall. He continued calling the concept of safe fracking pure fiction and decrying the release of methane from natural gas as a major contributing factor to climate change. Fracking is a danger to our water supply. Its a danger to the air we breathe. It causes earthquakes. Its highly explosive. Safe fracking is like clean coal pure fiction Sanders continued. But most importantly methane from natural gas contributes to climate change and is setting us on a path to disaster he added. When we are in the White House we will end the era of fossil fuels and that includes fracking Sanders call to ban fracking is not necessarily new. The Vermont senator promised in March that his administration would ban fracking nationwide and rapidly move to renewable energy Sanders also called for a full ban on fracking as part of his 16 trillion Green New Deal proposal released last month. Fracking and mountaintop removal coal mining are two particularly harmful methods used to extract fossil fuels his plan states. They make surrounding communities less healthy and less safe. They must be immediately banned. Former Vice President Joe Biden D has also expressed a desire to ban fracking telling CNNs Dana Bash that his administration would work to eliminate it. Just to clarify would there be any place for fossil fuels including coal and fracking in a Biden administration Bash asked during Julys Democrat debate in Detroit. No. We would work it out. We would make sure its eliminated and no more subsidies for either one of those either any fossil fuel Biden said Ten Democrat candidates including Biden and Sanders will participate in the CNN hosted climate change town hall Wednesday evening.	False	False	False	False	False
The Amazon is burning at an alarming rate in Brazil with 72843 fires detected so far this year by the countrys space research center INPE. That amounts to an 83 percent increase over the same period in 2018 and the highest number since the agency started recording fires in 2013 meaning it is likely the highest number of fires to date. The sudden spike has prompted renewed concern that the destruction of the Amazon basin is the result of right wing President Jair Bolsonaros environmental policies that dont give much thought to the environment at all. The smoke from the fires has been so bad that when carried by the wind it caused an hourlong blackout in nearby So Paulo. The right wing populist Bolsonaro who has shown disdain for protecting the Amazonhome to 3 million species of plants and animals and 1 million or so peoplecame to power in January. The Bolsonaro regime has reversed previous governments efforts to enforce environmental regulations and protect what is the largest rainforest in the world. Over the past decade previous governments had managed to reduce deforestation with action by federal agencies and a system of fines. But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes the BBC reports. Last monththe far right president accused Inpes director of lying about the scale of deforestationin the Amazon and trying to undermine the government. It came after Inpe published data showing an 88 percent increase in deforestation there in June compared to the same month a year ago. Conversely NASA has reported overall fire activity in the Amazon basin has been slightly below average. Since Thursday INPE said satellite images spotted 9507 new forest fires in the country mostly in the Amazon basin home to the worlds largest tropical forest seen as vital to countering global warming Reuters reports. Wildfires have increased in Mato Grosso and Para two states where Brazils agricultural frontier has pushed into the Amazon basin and spurred deforestation. Wildfires are common in the dry season but are also deliberately set by farmers illegally deforesting land for cattle ranching. Bolsonaro dismissed alarm over the latest data saying it was simply the season that farmers use open fires to clear farmland. I used to be called Captain Chainsaw. Now I am Nero setting the Amazon aflame he said.	False	False	False	False	False
Madrid AFP A UN climate summit in Madrid was on life support Saturday after marathon negotiations between countries left them more divided than ever over on how to fight global warming and pay for its ravages. Diplomats from rich nations emerging giants and the world's poorest countries each for their own reasons found fault with a draft agreement put forward by host Chile in a botched attempt to strike common ground. Faced with fire alarm warnings from science deadly extreme weather made worse by climate change and weekly strikes by millions of young people negotiations in Madrid were under pressure to send a clear signal that governments were willing to double down in tackling the crisis. But the 12 day talks more than 24 hours after their scheduled end had retreated even further from this goal on Saturday. Simon Stiell Grenada envoy told AFP that the lack of ambition in the initial agreement text was crazy. It isn't reflective of the kids who are demonstrating on the streets the world over communities being washed away by rising sea levels he said late Saturday. We wanted provisions that were in the Paris agreement to remain and what we see at every COP it just seems to be another opportunity to erode those. Veteran observers of UN climate talks were stunned by the state of play nearly 24 hours after the negotiations had been due to close. I have never seen such a disconnect between what the science requires and the people of the world demand versus what the climate negotiations are delivering Alden Meyer strategy and policy director at the Union of Concerned Scientists told AFP. Alexandria Villasenor a 14 year old climate activist said she was disappointed in the lack of action at COP 25. The difference between the youth on the streets and the negotiations is that the youth on the streets are acting with urgency she told AFP. COP 25 has failed us and it's another year of failure. Under the Paris accord countries agreed in 2015 to work to limit global temperature rises to well below two degrees Celsius through a series of voluntary action pledges that step up over time. The push for a strengthening of voluntary carbon cutting plans is led by small island and least developed states along with the European Union. Ministers from this high ambition coalition have called out countries they see as blocking a consensus call for all countries to step up notably the United States Australia and Saudi Arabia. China and India the world's No. 1 and No. 4 carbon emitters have made it clear they see no need to improve on their current emissions reduction plans which run to 2030. These emerging giants have chosen instead to emphasise the historical responsibility of rich nations to lead the way and provide financing to poor countries. Observers told AFP Saturday evening that a possible landing ground had emerged in which China agreed to yield a little over language surrounding ambition in return for a clear reiteration of historic polluters' obligation to do more. The COP 25 summit was also meant to finalise a chapter on carbon markets in the Paris rulebook which goes into effect next year. Some nations notably Brazil and Australia want to count carbon credits accumulated under a previous climate deal as part of their commitments under the Paris goals further stymying progress. The United States which is leaving the landmark Paris climate deal next year was accused of acting as a spoiler on a number of issues vital to climate vulnerable nations. This included so called loss and damage funding to help disaster hit countries repair and rebuild. The US has not come here in good faith said Harjeet Singh climate lead with charity ActionAid. They continue to block the world's efforts to help people whose lives have been turned upside down by climate change. Even if nations in Madrid snatch victory from the jaws of defeat and agree to implement their pledges Earth is on course to warm more than 3C by 2100. If there was one time in the history when I would say governments fucked up I would say today in Madrid governments fucked up said Mohamed Adow Director of Power Shift Africa. People across the world must rise to save the planet.	False	False	False	False	False
The City of Lights Paris has been illuminated in recent days by cars set alight by thousands of protesting Yellow Vestslargely middle class people who earn their living by driving or who commute to get to work. The cause of their ire is a scheduled 25 cents per gallon increase in gas taxes and about 10 cents on diesel to fight climate change. French President Macron deeply unpopular just reversed course on the new green taxParisians are already paying about 7.06 per gallon for gasoline almost half of that in taxes. If Paris streets burned over a proposed25 cents per gallon climate change tax imagine the global conflagration over a 49 per gallon tax. Thats what a United Nations special climate report calls for in 12 years with a carbon tax of 5500 per tonequal to 49 per gallon of gasoline or diesel. Thats about 100 times todays average state and federal motor fuels tax. By 2100 the U.N. estimates that a carbon tax of 27000 per ton is needed240 per gallonto limit global warming to no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius. Of course that isnt going to happen. The economic wreckage of such a punitive tax would plunge the global economy into a permanent depressionand thats assuming politicians could enact such huge tax increases over the will of their voters. Keep in mind that the unrest in France was triggered by a looming 25 cent hike which is a little less than 10 more in taxes than French drivers already pay. To meet the 49 per gallon tax hike recommended by the U.N. fuel taxes in France would have to go up 17 fold. The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed. They dont earn enough to be part of the elite unconcerned with fuel taxes but they work hard enough that they dont qualify for the generous welfare benefits handed out to the nations poor and to newly arrived immigrants from Africa and the Middle East. Here in America Republicans in Congress passed a resolution against carbon taxes over the summer while Democrats embraced the concept in their party platform. Some incoming members of the new Democratic majority in the House are calling to create a select committee to map out a Green New Deal that would move the U.S. toward using 100 renewable energy for the electric grid while guaranteeing jobs for everyone. In the meantime opinion polls indicate that 54 of Americans do not believe global warming will cause major problems within their lifetimes. So how do climate activists get their way? Some openly talk of imposing authoritarian governance to override democratic institutions. Former NASA climate researcher James Hansen suggested in 2007 that the democratic process does not work. Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of deniers. Those who see climate change as a dire and urgent threat have some work to do to convince voters in the Western democracies to give up their way of life in exchange for unspecified benefits of a slightly less warm worldand thats assuming China India and over a billion people in Africa can be convinced not to try to pull themselves out of povertysomething that may only be done with greater use of fossil fuels. Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission. An example of the former can be seen in the new National Climate Assessment. The reports first chapter lists recent natural disasters citing this summers deadly Carr Fire in California as an example. But while the report seeks to link wildfire to climate change it glosses over the real reason fires have grown in intensity and size the 30 years of increased environmental restrictions on logging brush clearance and preventive burns that caused a massive and dangerous fuel buildupa problem that was predicted years ago and has nothing to do with global warming. The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg. Here were told that the U.S. economy will take a 10 hit by 2100 unless we reduce our carbon emissions. Two problems though the authors assume the worst case and least likely scenario with average temperatures more than 14 degrees Fahrenheit hotter by 2100 and they derive two thirds of their economic losses estimate by claiming a large amount of premature deaths due to the hotter temperatures. The latter claim is highly problematic as death rates in regions far hotter than in the U.S. arent meaningfully different when accounting for the standard of living. Why? People adapt rather easily. This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN but it is far from sound science or even good economics. The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation. And its these three things wealth growth and technology which allows humans to thrive on planet Earth not 240 per gallon fuel taxes imposed by an elite that cares not for the masses.	False	False	False	False	False
