The Extinction Rebellion protesters arent helping their cause. THIS IS AN EMERGENCY warns the website of the Extinction Rebellion a group of climate change activists whose civil disobedience has included gluing themselves to a train and to Jeremy Corbyns fence nailing a pink boat to the ground in Oxford Circus pouring fake blood outside Downing Street holding a die in at Londons Natural History Museum and camping beneath the citys Marble Arch. What do they want? 1 For Britain to declare a climate and ecological emergency 2 for Britain to commit to net zero carbon dioxide emissions by 2025 and 3 for a special climate change citizens assembly to decide future environmental policies. When do they want it? Now. We are now facing an existential crisis the climate crisis and ecological crisis which have never been treated as crises before they have been ignored for decades said Greta Thunberg a Swedish activist addressing London demonstrators. And for way too long the politicians and the people in power have gotten away with not doing anything. Now if Ms. Thunberg who is 16 years old had been addressing Chinese American or Indian protesters I might have had some sympathy. But to suggest that Britain has ignored climate change for decades is simply untrue. Since 1990 the country has achieved a 38 percent decrease in carbon dioxide emissions and has reduced its annual emissions by more than 43 percent this despite considerable economic growth. While the Paris Agreement sets the aim for net zero carbon dioxide emissions by the year 2050 and net zero greenhouse gases by 2070 Parliament in 2008 introduced the Climate Change Act which commits the United Kingdom to reducing its annual emissions by at least 80 percent by 2050. The U.K. has also removed coal as a major electricity source. I am sympathetic to the first of their aims making the environment a political priority and declaring climate change to be a global emergency. Scientists may not be infallible but Ive seen no credible argument for why they are all wrong in the same way. However much like Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs Green New Deal the demands of the Extinction Rebellion are risibly overreaching and counterproductive. In fact their demands could be realized only through an immediate economic overhaul by people who have yet to prove their competence. Recall the five goals set out in the Green New Deal as part of a ten year plan. First to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions while providing quality jobs for all. Second to guarantee millions of good high wage jobs and economic security. Third to invest and update industry and infrastructure. Fourth to secure healthy food and a livable climate for everyone. Fifth to end oppression and bring about the redistribution of power. Recall also the much criticized supporting FAQ materials produced by Ocasio Cortezs office. Embarrassing clauses about farting cows airplanes and those unwilling to work aside this document was illuminating because it showed that those who devised the Green New Deal have in practical terms no clue what they are doing. The same is true of the Extinction Rebellion. The entire spectacle has been highly disruptive for businesses and law enforcement alone. Im extremely concerned about the impact that the protests are having on our ability to tackle issues like violent crime if they continue any longer said Sadiq Khan Londons mayor who has estimated that around 9000 police officers have been dispatched to deal with the protesters. The police have made over 1000 arrests. Perhaps this frustration explains why Adam Boulton a presenter on Sky News told an Extinction Rebellion organizer Robin Boardman on live TV that the protesters come across as incompetent middle class self indulgent people trying to tell us how to live our lives. Instead of explaining why this perception is wrong Boardman insisted with his hand on his heart that he cared deeply before storming off the set. Yes Boulton was aggressive and accusatory but so are the tactics of the Extinction Rebellion.	False	True	False	True	True
A strong tsunami triggered by a magnitude 7.5 earthquake has hit a coastal Indonesian city officials say. Waves of up to 2m 6.6ft high swept through Palu on Sulawesi island not long after authorities had lifted a tsunami warning. Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque amongst the buildings damaged. Officials have reported five deaths but it is not clear if those were as a result of the tsunami. Last month a series of earthquakes struck the Indonesian island of Lombok killing hundreds of people the biggest on 5 August killed more than 460. The earthquake hit just off central Sulawesi at a depth of 10km 6.2 miles just before 1800 1100 GMT the US Geological Survey said. A tsunami warning was issued but lifted within the hour. The dramatic video footage of the tsunami hitting Palu shows the high waves sweeping away several buildings and then the large tilted mosque in the town about 80km from the quake's epicentre. Dwikorita Karnawati head of Indonesia's meteorology and geophysics agency BMKG said the tsunami had receded. The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed. There is a ship washed ashore she added. The 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia. Indonesia is prone to earthquakes because it lies on the Ring of Fire the line of frequent quakes and volcanic eruptions that circles virtually the entire Pacific rim. More than half of the world's active volcanoes above sea level are part of the ring.	False	True	False	True	True
US President Donald Trump has promised to erect a wall along the US Mexico border to curb illegal immigration however scientists have warned that it could have devastating implications for local wildlife. The US Mexico border spans more than 2000 miles 3200 km and crosses some of the most biologically rich areas on the continent. Analysis of the animals that reside in the region reveals the controversial wall could threaten the movement of 1500 animal and plant species that reside in the area. The report which was co authored by 18 scientists from around the world found that62 of the species threatened nu the wall were already listed as 'critically endangered' 'endangered' or 'vulnerable' and up to 17 per cent risk extirpation from the US. More than 2500 experts from around the world have rallied around the new study championing its importance. One of its authors a leading professor from Stanford condemned the US border wall project branding it a 'crime against biodiversity'. The new paper co authored by Stanford biologist Rodolfo Dirzowarns some species face extinction if their movement is restricted by the border wall planned by President Trump. According to the study the border wall will harm wildlife populations by fragmenting degrading and eliminating existing habitat as well as by blocking migration. ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The bordersis an ecological theatre where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays. 'A multitude of factors climatic conditions topography geological history soil types converge to create an amazing mosaic of ecosystems.' The research looked at 346 different species native to the region around the US Mexico border and predicted how the wall's installation would affect each of them. The wall would bisect the habitats of a combined1506 native terrestrial and freshwater species 1077 animal and 429 plant the researchers said. The study concluded that animals including the Mexican Gray Wolf Sonoran pronghorn antelope jaguar and bighorn sheep would all be directly impacted. Writing in the study entitled 'Nature Divided Scientists United USMexico Border Wall Threatens Biodiversity and Binational Conservation' the authors claim 'A continuous border wall could disconnect more than 34 per cent of US non flying native terrestrialand freshwater animal species from the 50 per cent or more of their range that lies south of the border. 'If cut off by a border wall 17 per cent of the 346 species we analysedincluding jaguar Panthera onca and ocelot Leopardus pardalis would have residual U.S. populationscovering 20000 km2 or less. 'This would elevate their risk of extirpation within the US according to IUCN Red List criteria.' The paperpublished in the journal BioScience predicts that some species will face extinction if their movements are restricted by the wall Donald Trump pledged to build during the presidential campaign in 2016. ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The borderis an ecological theater where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays. 'A multitude of factors climatic conditions topography geological history soil types converge to create an amazing mosaic of ecosystems.' His colleague Emeritus professor of Biology Paul Ehrlich also of Stanford said that a smaller development such as a shopping centre or a new road already has a direct impact on biodiversity. Building something as large as a 2000 mile 3200 km long fence would be tantamount to a 'crime against biodiversity'. Professor Dirzo added 'Cut off like this the bighorn sheep and other animals and plants will become zombie species populations that are demographically and genetically doomed.' To mitigate the effects of the proposed wall the authors make several urgent recommendations to the US Congress and Department of Homeland Security. Some of the recommendations include Following existing environmental laws taking action to mitigate ecological harm and forgoing physical barriers in particularly sensitive areas. The research paper also calls for the government to encourage scientific research in the borderlands to inform and assist environmental evaluation and mitigation efforts. The authors conclude that 'national security can and must be pursued with an approach that preserves our natural heritage.'	False	False	False	True	True
The Trump administration has repeatedly pointed to declines in U.S. carbon emissions to justify its fossil fuel focused energy dominance agenda. But a new analysis has delivered a blow to that defense concluding that the nations greenhouse gas emissions rose sharply in 2018. Emissions in the country jumped 3.4 percent last year the second largest annual increase in more than two decades according to a preliminary estimate by the economic research company Rhodium Group. The analysis comes on the heels of two gut wrenching climate reports one by the United Nations and another authored by scientists from more than a dozen federal agencies in the U.S. that warn the world is running out of time to stave off catastrophic and potentially irreversible climate change. The Trump administration continues to dismiss and downplay the crisis. I dont believe it President Donald Trump who has a long history of climate change denial said of his own administrations report. He added that were the cleanest weve ever been. Between 2005 and 2017 CO2 emissions in the U.S. fell by about 14 percent. Administration officials havetouted these declines to explain their push to boost fossil fuels as well as to defend the presidentsdecision last year to withdraw the U.S. from the historic Paris accord on combating climate change. We are moving forward but we are not moving forward in a detrimental impact to our economy as what the Paris climate accord would have called for Wheeler said. We are reducing our CO2 emissions faster than most other developed countries. We have our own plan. Were moving forward. Were addressing the issue. Former Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke who resigned Jan. 2 under a cloud of ethics scandals told the National Petroleum Council last month that the administrations regulatory philosophy is to partner with the fossil fuel sector which he said was at the leading edge of technology. The U.S. has lead the charge in cutting emissions of CO2 and methane a potent greenhouse gas he added. Everyone else is up he said referring to other countries overall emissions. Were going down while we have our record breaking oil and gas production. But as Rhodium Groups new analysis makes clear that was not the case in 2018. The emissions uptick the largest since the economic bounce back from the recession that ended in mid 2009 comes despite a record number of coal fired power plants going offline replaced largely by the use of natural gas. Along with an 1.9 percent spike in power sector emissions increases occurred in the transportation industry and buildings sectors according to Rhodium. Contributing to the overall increase were the growing U.S. economy a cold start to the year that required additional energy for heating and the limited progress made in developing decarbonization strategies the analysis found. With a new Congress in session we demand they heed these warnings about climate change and step up to act at the scale of the crisis she said in a statement. The administration has aggressively rolled back environmental and climate regulations including President Barack Obamas Clean Power Plan a policy limiting greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. At Interior Zinke overturned an Obama era moratorium on new coal leases on federal land scrapped a hydraulic fracturing rule meant to better protect public health and curtailed a rule limiting the amount of methane that can be released from oil and gas operations on federal and Native American lands. Even amid the current partial government shutdown the administration has prioritized fossil fuels. The Interior Departmentone of the main agencies affected by the shutdown. is still issuing permits for oil companies according to Bloomberg. And the agency is continuing its push to open Alaskas fragile Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling holding public meetings as part of its ongoing environmental review process Alaska Public Media reported.	True	False	False	False	True
Democratic 2020 hopeful Sen. Bernie Sanders on Thursday released his plan for a Green New Deal promising that the multitrillion dollarplan to radically overhaul the economy and combat climate change will pay for itself over the next 15 years. As president Bernie Sanders will launch the decade of the Green New Deal a ten year nationwide mobilization centered around justice and equity during which climate change will be factored into virtually every area of policy from immigration to trade to foreign policy and beyond his campaign said in a press release. SANDERS CALLS FOR 'REGISTRY OF DISREPUTABLE FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS' CUTTING PRISON POPULATION IN HALF The Vermont senator has long been an advocate for the Green New Deal but only this year has it become a central policy for many of those seeking the Democratic nomination for president. This year it was given a big push in Congress when Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. and Sen. Ed Markey D Mass. introduced a formal resolution on it which stalled in the Senate but drewsupport from a number of 2020 hopefuls. All versions of such plans have gone beyond direct energy related policies instead seeking to overhaul the economy and society at large. Sanders plan is no different promising that he will generate the political will necessary for a wholesale transformation of our society and proposing16.3 trillion in public investments. In addition to promises that include reaching 100 percent renewable energy by 2030 and decarbonization by 2050 and ending unemployment by creating 20 million good paying jobs tied to clean energy Sanders claims he will save families money with a host of policies including launching universal high speed Internet weatherizing homes building new public transportation and rebuilding Americas infrastructure. Among those promises are a 681 billion program for families and small businesses to trade in old vehicles for newer more energy efficient motors a souped up version of the Obama administration era Cash for Clunkers program. He also promises justice for frontline communities via a 40 billion Climate Justice Resiliency Fund as well as an extra 200 billion to the Green Climate Fund. The plan also promises support for the climate justice movement to take on the fossil fuel industry and other polluters and lead the globe in solving the climate crisis. In a nod to the social justice part of the plan he says that the deal is an opportunity to uproot historical injustices and inequities to advance social racial and economic justice including redressing the exclusion of black brown Native Americanand other vulnerable communities from the programs that made up the original New Deal. But the White House hopeful also promises that the plan will pay for itself over 16 years sayingexperts have scored the plan and its economic effects. According to the campaign revenue will be generated via a host of measures including slapping the fossil fuel industry with fees litigation and taxes and generating revenue from the sale of energy. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Further sources of revenue or savings includetax revenue from the proposed 20 million jobs higher taxes on the wealthy lower military spending and a reduced need for welfare spending due to the creation of millions of good paying unionized jobs. Any such plan is unlikely to get any Republican support and would almost certainly rely entirely on Democrats having strong majorities in both the House and Senate should Sanders win the nomination and the presidency.	True	False	False	True	True
WASHINGTON The Trump administration says it will bypass 37 environmental and other laws to expedite construction of a 15 mile long section of President Donald Trumpsplanned wall along the U.S. Mexico border seemingly removing any doubt about whether the the wall will harm the environment. The waiver announced Tuesday by the Department of Homeland Security applies to the construction of several wall prototypes access roads and 14 miles of replacement fencing near San Diego a Homeland Security official told HuffPost. DHS has been granted authority to exempt itself from all legal requirements it determines necessary to construct barriers and roads under the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996. Between 2005 and 2008 the department invoked that authority five times according to the agency. DHS noted in its Tuesday release that in fiscal year 2016 the U.S. Border Patrol apprehended more than 31000 illegal aliens and confiscated more than 9000 pounds of marijuana and more than 1300 pounds of cocaine in itsSan Diego Sector. It described the sector which includes some 60 miles of the U.S. Mexico border as an area of high illegal entry for which there is an immediate need to improve current infrastructure and construct additional border barriers and roads. Among the lengthy list of laws it will waive are the National Environmental Policy Act a 1969 law requiring federal agencies to complete environmental assessments of their projects the Endangered Species Act the Migratory Bird Conservation Act and the Clean Air Act.It is likely a sign of how the administration which has worked swiftly to roll back a slew of environmental regulations plans to fulfill Trumpspledgefor a great great wall on the nearly 2000 mile southern border. Despite sidestepping these laws DHS is committed to responsible environmental stewardship and will continue to assess potential impacts coordinate with relevant stakeholders and to the extent possible offset or mitigate potential impacts department spokesman Carlos Diaz said in an email to HuffPost. Trump wants to scare people into letting him ignore the law and endanger wildlife and people Brian Segee an attorney with the Center for Biological Diversity said in a statement. Trumps wall is a divisive symbol of fear and hatred and it does real harm to the landscape and communities. A study by the center in May found that 93 threatened endangered and candidate speciescould be negatively affected by the proposed border wallincluding jaguars ocelots Mexican spotted owls Mexican gray wolves and Quino checkerspot butterflies. Driven by an anti immigrant agenda the Trump administration is callously putting construction of an environmentally and culturally destructive border wall above water resources for communities on both sides of the border federally protected lands clean air and the lives of hundreds of endangered species all while turning a blind eye to the vital relationships of cross border communities and our longstanding values as a nation she said in a statement. So far very little funding has been secured for the walls estimatedcost of upwards of 70 billion a tab Trump insists Mexico will eventually pay for. DHS identified 20 million to help fund several prototypes. And last month the House of Representatives passed a spending bill that earmarks 1.6 billion to begin construction of the controversial project enough to pay for roughly 74 miles of wall.	False	False	False	True	False
California legislators have voted to extend a centerpiece program to cut greenhouse gas emissions burnishing the states reputation as a bulwark against Donald Trumps demolition of climate change measures. In a rare show of bipartisan agreement on climate change eight Republicans joined with Democrats in Californias two legislative houses to extend the cap and trade emissions system a further 10 years until 2030. The emissions lowering scheme the second largest of its kind in the world aims to help the state reach its target of cutting planet warming gases 40 by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. Tonight California stood tall and once again boldly confronted the existential threat of our time said Jerry Brown Californias governor. Republicans and Democrats set aside their differences came together and took courageous action. Thats what good government looks like. The cap and trade program established in 2006 under then governor Arnold Schwarzenegger sets a limit on emissions and requires polluters to either reduce their output or purchase permits from those who have. As the limit steadily becomes stricter it nudges businesses to take the more financially attractive option of cutting their pollution. California the sixth largest economy in the world is in stark opposition to Trumps administration. The president has said he will withdraw the US from the Paris climate agreement and has set about dismantling federal policies that lower emissions. Brown has positioned himself as a countervailing force to Trump visiting China to talk to its leaders about climate change and promising to build and launch weather monitoring satellites should federal budget cuts endanger programs handled by Nasa and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOOA. A lot of you people are going to be alive and youre going to be alive in a horrible situation Brown told Californian lawmakers at a committee hearing shortly before the vote. This isnt for me Im going to be dead. This is for you and its real. Many Californian Republicans remain opposed to the cap and trade system warning it will pose a crushing blow to small businesses. But the bill ended up gaining an unusual level of Republican support with the extension also supported by key conservative constituencies including the California Chamber of Commerce and associations representing manufacturers and agriculture interests. Concessions to get some Republican support such as the limiting of separate regulations on refineries risked alienating more liberal Democrats. Some environmental groups including the Sierra Club attacked the bill for allowing polluters to continue emitting greenhouse gases if they offset them with green projects including those outside California. But other climate activists declared themselves pleased with the outcome pointing out that it showed that action to reduce emissions is bipartisan and popular. California is once again showing Washington DC and the rest of the world that fighting climate and air pollution is the right thing for our health economy and future said Fred Krupp president of the Environmental Defense Fund. Californias pioneering attitude to climate change action was underlined by separate court action launched on Monday aimed at holding fossil fuel companies accountable for global warming. Marin and San Mateo counties along with the City of Imperial Beach filed a lawsuit in the California superior court to complain that 37 oil gas and coal companies knew burning their products would increase carbon pollution and cause sea levels rise. Defendants have known for nearly 50 years that greenhouse gas pollution from their fossil fuel products has a significant impact on the Earths climate and sea levels the complaint states. The municipalities are claiming damages from the fossil fuel firms echoing a strategy used against the tobacco industry in the 1990s that resulted in multibillion dollar payouts. The companies targeted in the lawsuit include Shell Exxon Mobile Chevron and BP. According to the municipalities these businesses have caused around 20 of all industrial carbon dioxide and methane pollution since the 1960s.	True	False	False	False	True
President Donald Trump announced his decision to pull the United States out of the Paris climate accord at 3 pm Eastern in the White House Rose Garden. A live stream of the announcement is embedded above. Multiple reports indicate that Trump is likely to announce a withdrawal from the agreement though many of these reports have expressed at least some uncertainty including about precisely what language Trump would use. Jonathan Swan of Axios reported that per two sources with direct knowledge of the decision Trump has decided to pull out of the agreement. The Daily Beasts Lachlan Markay reports that the White House is telling congressional staff that Trump will pull out. The Associated Presss Jill Colvin and Julie Pace though report that Trumps decision may not be entirely clear cut and that aides continued to deliberate on caveats in the language. The actual Paris deal agreed to by 195 countries in December 2015 is aspirational rather than binding calling on countries to set goals for emissions reduction. Still the withdrawal of the US would send an unmistakable signal to the rest of the world that the country with the second highest carbon emissions is no longer interested in even pretending to care about reducing them. For years now its been clear that blocking environmental regulations and obstructing action on climate change are top Republican Party priorities. The GOPs leading politicians and media outlets have tended to praise fossil fuel companies and ignore or cast doubt on climate science. The major Republican presidential candidates harshly criticized the Paris deal in particular and Trump promised to withdraw from it during the campaign. Still withdrawing from such a recent agreement that the vast majority of countries across the world have signed on to has serious consequences for Americas role as a global leader. So the question of whether the US should actually pull out of the agreement has reportedly been the subject of intense debate within the Trump administration. According to Politicos Andrew Restuccia and Josh Dawsey White House chief strategist Steve Bannon and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt have been the leading voices urging Trump to withdraw while Ivanka Trump and the so called New York or globalist White House camp have been advocating for staying in. Silicon Valley business leaders like Apple CEO Tim Cook and Tesla CEO Elon Musk have also been arguing that the US should stick to the agreement.	True	False	False	True	False
Concentrations of CO2 in the Earth's atmosphere surged to a record high in 2016 according to the World Meteorological Organization WMO. Last year's increase was 50 higher than the average of the past 10 years. Researchers say a combination of human activities and the El Nio weather phenomenon drove CO2 to a level not seen in 800000 years. This year's greenhouse gas bulletin produced by the WMO is based on measurements taken in 51 countries. Research stations dotted around the globe measure concentrations of warming gases including carbon dioxide methane and nitrous oxide. The figures published by the WMO are what's left in the atmosphere after significant amounts are absorbed by the Earth's sinks which include the oceans and the biosphere. 2016 saw average concentrations of CO2 hit 403.3 parts per million up from 400ppm in 2015. It is the largest increase we have ever seen in the 30 years we have had this network Dr Oksana Tarasova chief of WMO's global atmosphere watch programme told BBC News. The largest increase was in the previous El Nio in 1997 1998 and it was 2.7ppm and now it is 3.3ppm it is also 50 higher than the average of the last ten years. El Nio impacts the amount of carbon in the atmosphere by causing droughts that limit the uptake of CO2 by plants and trees. Emissions from human sources have slowed down in the last couple of years according to research but according to Dr Tarasova it is the cumulative total in the atmosphere that really matters as CO2 stays aloft and active for centuries. Over the past 70 years says the report the increase in CO2 in the atmosphere is nearly 100 times larger than it was at the end of the last ice age. Rapidly increasing atmospheric levels of CO2 and other gases have the potential according to the study to initiate unpredictable changes in the climate system... leading to severe ecological and economic disruptions. The study notes that since 1990 there has been a 40 increase in total radiative forcing that's the warming effect on our climate of all greenhouse gases. Geological wise it is like an injection of a huge amount of heat said Dr Tarasova. The changes will not take ten thousand years like they used to take before they will happen fast we don't have the knowledge of the system in this state that is a bit worrisome! According to experts the last time the Earth experienced a comparable concentration of CO2 was three to five million years ago in the mid Pliocene era. The climate then was 2 3C warmer and sea levels were 10 20m higher due to the melting of Greenland and the West Antarctic ice sheets. Other experts in the field of atmospheric research agreed that the WMO findings were a cause for concern. The 3ppm CO2 growth rate in 2015 and 2016 is extreme double the growth rate in the 1990 2000 decade Prof Euan Nisbet from Royal Holloway University of London told BBC News. It is urgent that we follow the Paris agreement and switch rapidly away from fossil fuels there are signs this is beginning to happen but so far the air is not yet recording the change. Another concern in the report is the continuing mysterious rise of methane levels in the atmosphere which were also larger than the average over the past ten years. Prof Nisbet says there is a fear of a vicious cycle where methane drives up temperatures which in turn releases more methane from natural sources. The rapid increase in methane since 2007 especially in 2014 2015 and 2016 is different. This was not expected in the Paris agreement. Methane growth is strongest in the tropics and sub tropics. The carbon isotopes in the methane show that growth is not being driven by fossil fuels. We do not understand why methane is rising. It may be a climate change feedback. It is very worrying. The implications of these new atmospheric measurements for the targets agreed under the Paris climate pact are quite negative say observers. The numbers don't lie. We are still emitting far too much and this needs to be reversed said Erik Solheim head of UN Environment. We have many of the solutions already to address this challenge. What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency. The report has been issued just a week ahead of the next instalment of UN climate talks in Bonn. Despite the declaration by President Trump that he intends to take the US out of the deal negotiators meeting in Germany will be aiming to advance and clarify the rulebook of the Paris agreement. Follow Matt on Twitter and on Facebook	True	False	False	True	True
President Donald Trump set in motion a vast rollback of energy climate and environmental regulations during his first two years in office. Over the next two years those actions will face intense scrutiny on Capitol Hill. On Thursday Democrats will take control of the House of Representatives and the committees that conduct government oversight. Within the first few months of the year incoming committee chairs intend to hold a series of hearings to pick apart Trump's energy and environmental policies and what role industry insiders played in crafting them. The Trump administration has targeted dozens of rules. Some of the biggest items on its agenda include withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement expanding drilling on federal lands and watering down rules ranging from limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants to fuel efficiency in cars and trucks. Rep. Raul Grijalva the Arizona Democrat tipped to chair the House Natural Resources Committee says Americans can expect the committee to probe the financial costs and public health risks associated with Interior Department policies under Trump. Those include rolling back methane emissions rules from oil and gas operations and making virtually all federally administered offshore waters available to drillers. The Trump administration has spent two years giving away the store to fossil fuel companies and Republicans in Congress cheered every step of the way says Grijalva. We need to know what kind of impact this corporate favoritism is having on average Americans' health and quality of life.	True	True	False	True	True
Fans of Greta Thunberg have expressed relief after the 16 year old posted a string of smiling photographs on Instagram. The environmental activist's recent images taken while touring Canada's east coast in Montreal and Quebec are in sharp contrast to images of the 16 year old speaking in an emotionally charged appearance last month at the Climate Action Summit 2019 in New York. A photo of Greta scowling when she spotted Donald Trumpwent viral. The teenage campaigner who has 7.2million followers on Instagram looks decidedly happier since she crossed the border from the US something which her followers haven't failed to notice. Writing on Instagram Greta said 'So happy to say that the following weeks I'll travel slowly through the North American continent moving southwest and then eventually through South America towards Santiago. I will stop on the way and visit as many places as I can and of course protest every Friday no matter where I am.' Yesterday the teenager posted an image of herself at theMarine Mammal Interpretation Centre in Tadoussac Qubec after spending a morning watchingwhales. The tone of Greta's images have changed significantly since she addressed the United Nations Climate Summit on September 23rd where she came close to tears in a emotional speech to international delegates. She told them 'I shouldn't be up here. I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean. Yet you all come to us for hope. How dare you. You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words' During the same appearance Greta was seen at the UN headquarters with an enraged expression on her face as US President Donald Trump upstaged her entrance by walking in flanked by news reporters an image that promptly went viral. Among the comments posted by the environmentalist's followers many remarked how much happier the teenager had looked in recent days. On Instagram Jesuissuzette wrote 'Greta you look so much happier now that youre out of America. Enjoy your travels. And thank you for your intrepid Climate Crisis campaign.' Last week Thunberg addressed on social media the negativity she's received for speaking out on climate change saying 'Here we go again... As you may have noticed the haters are as active as ever going after me my looks my clothes my behaviour and my differences. They come up with every thinkable lie and conspiracy theory. It seems they will cross every possible line to avert the focus since they are so desperate not to talk about the climate and ecological crisis. Being different is not an illness and the current best available science is not opinions its facts.' Greta who is taking a sabbatical year from school arrived in North America in August taking a two week crossing on carbon neutral yacht Malizia II to address the United Nations. Greta Thunberg's fiery speech at the UN Climate Action Summit in New York This is all wrong. I shouldnt be standing here. I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean. Yet you all come to me for hope? How dare you! You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words. And yet Im one of the lucky ones. People are suffering. People are dying. Entire ecosystems are collapsing. We are in the beginning of a mass extinction. And all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth. How dare you! For more than 30 years the science has been crystal clear. How dare you continue to look away and come here saying that you are doing enough when the politics and solutions needed are still nowhere in sight. You say you hear us and that you understand the urgency. But no matter how sad and angry I am I dont want to believe that. Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act then you would be evil. And I refuse to believe that. The popular idea of cutting our emissions in half in 10 years only gives us a 50 chance of staying below 1.5C degrees and the risk of setting off irreversible chain reactions beyond human control. Maybe 50 is acceptable to you. But those numbers dont include tipping points most feedback loops additional warming hidden by toxic air pollution or the aspects of justice and equity. They also rely on my and my childrens generation sucking hundreds of billions of tonnes of your CO2 out of the air with technologies that barely exist. So a 50 risk is simply not acceptable to us we who have to live with the consequences. To have a 67 chance of staying below a 1.5C global temperature rise the best odds given by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change the world had 420 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide left to emit back on 1 January 2018. Today that figure is already down to less than 350 gigatonnes. How dare you pretend that this can be solved with business as usual and some technical solutions. With todays emissions levels that remaining CO2 budget will be entirely gone in less than eight and a half years. There will not be any solutions or plans presented in line with these figures today. Because these numbers are too uncomfortable. And you are still not mature enough to tell it like it is. You are failing us. But the young people are starting to understand your betrayal. The eyes of all future generations are upon you. And if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you. We will not let you get away with this. Right here right now is where we draw the line. The world is waking up. And change is coming whether you like it or not.	True	False	False	True	False
The top lawmakers on the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources were unified in their opposition to the Green New Deal and unreadiness to back taxes on carbon dioxide emissions. Theres no such thing as a new green deal West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin said during a Monday night panel at an international energy conference in Houston. Theres a resolution that has a dream but theres no bill theres no contents at all. Manchin a Democrat appeared alongside Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski a Republican at the event hosted by the consulting firm IHS Markit. Murkowski chairs the Senate energy committee and Manchin is the ranking Democrat. Manchin favors using fossil fuels like coal into the future but wants to fund technology to offset carbon dioxide emissions or sequester them underground. Murkowski said the Green New Deal was distracting from bipartisan efforts to fight global warming. We have to work within the systems we have and make sure we are not destroying our economy at the same time were moving to a lower carbon economy Murkowski said. As it stands now the Green New Deal is a non binding resolution with a series of broad goals for fighting global warming including net zero greenhouse gas emissions retrofitting every building expanding high speed rail universal health care and job guarantees. Many Democrats including 2020 presidential hopefuls back the Green New Deal which was introduced by Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and Democratic Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey in early February. RELATED John Kasich Praises The Green New Deal However Senate Democrats are trying to avoid having to vote on the Green New Deal resolution. Republicans on the other hand want to get Democrats on the record in support of a proposal they see as socialism. Manchin and Murkowski also said they are not ready to support a carbon tax despite support from some large oil and gas companies The Washington Examiners Joshua Siegel tweeted. Both lawmakers were responding to a question asked by Axios Amy Harder during the event. Most Republicans oppose a carbon tax though a handful have joined oil and gas majors and Democrats to push carbon tax proposals. The most recent high profile carbon tax effort was led by former Florida GOP Rep. Carlos Curbelo who introduced a bill to use emissions taxes to fund the federal Highway Trust Fund. However Curbelos policy went nowhere in the House and he lost his re election bid in 2018. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	True	False	True	True
The 2015 Paris agreement's ambitious goal of limiting global warming to 1.5C remains within reach a study suggests. The study is one of several to address the carbon budget which among other things determines how much CO2 the planet can emit and still reach a given limit for global warming. It indicates the 2015 target perceived by some as tough could be met with very stringent emissions cuts. It used computer models that project climate behaviour into the future. The aim of the Paris deal was holding the increase in global average temperature to well below 2C above pre industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit temperature increase to 1.5C. But scientists admit they were taken by surprise by the ambition of the 1.5C figure. The results of the work with computer models have been published in Nature Geoscience. This type of work necessarily contains uncertainties regarding the way the Earth's climate will respond in future and how quickly societies can move away from fossil fuel use. But the study authors say Pursuing 'efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C' is not chasing a geophysical impossibility. Co author Michael Grubb from University College London said This paper shows that the Paris goals are within reach but clarifies what the commitment to 'pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C' really implies. Those commitments would require strengthening the nationally determined contributions NDCs the pledges to cut emissions contained in the Paris agreement. Previous estimates of the remaining 1.5C carbon budget based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's IPCC Fifth Assessment of the climate were around four times lower. But unlike those figures which relied on one line of evidence the new study uses multiple approaches to examine the question and comes up with a rather different result. Co author Prof Pierre Friedlingstein from the University of Exeter said This is very good news for the achievability of the Paris targets. Prof Myles Allen another author from the University of Oxford told BBC News In the main body of the IPCC assessment what it would take to meet a 1.5C goal wasn't assessed in any detail. To be honest it wasn't thought to be the policy priority at the time. Perhaps it should have been but that was the view of the academic community then. But the ambition of Paris caught a lot of people by surprise. The climate models are exaggerating. The predictions are too alarmist. The Tuvaluans and other islanders are safer than we thought. These are among the conclusions that some might reach from this latest work. In reality nothing is quite that straightforward. The models are simulated approximations of possible futures. Inevitably they are going to be at least slightly adrift of reality either in the amount of warming or its timing. They come with caveats and margins of error. In many ways it's remarkable that these computer constructs are even roughly on track. And models designed to come up with very broad potential outcomes for the end of the century may not be fine tuned enough to give more detailed forecasts year by year. The authors themselves are anxious that their research is not misunderstood. The need for urgent action to reduce emissions is unchanged they say. It's just that the most ambitious of the Paris Agreement targets is not as unachievable as many once thought that there is time to act though the task remains a monumental one. Myles Allen added For a two in three chance of keeping temperatures within 1.5C we'd have to reduce emissions in a straight line to zero from where we are now over the next 40 years. It's possible but extremely challenging. So if people are saying can we now relax? That's not the right message to take at all. Scientists agree urgent action will be needed to tackle the effects of rapid temperature increase over the next century. But a study earlier this year suggested the allowable carbon budget had probably been overestimated. It said the pre industrial baseline used to benchmark present day warming was probably older than the IPCC had assumed. Therefore the degree of warming since that baseline was probably greater than had been believed. On Twitter one of the authors of that report Prof Michael Mann said the latest research in Nature Geoscience doesn't account for the pre industrial baseline issue we examined. He added There is some debate about the precise amount of committed warming if we cease emitting carbon immediately. We're probably very close to 1.5C. Meanwhile another study in Nature Geoscience by Gunnar Myhre from the Center for International Climate and Environmental Research in Oslo and colleagues suggests the greenhouse effect caused by human induced CO2 emissions is now half way to doubling compared with pre industrial conditions. Although the concentrations themselves have not yet reached the halfway mark this is being described as an iconic watermark.	False	True	False	True	True
California and 16 other states sued the Trump administration Tuesday over its plan to scrap Obama era auto emissions standards that would require vehicles to get significantly higher gas mileage by 2025. At issue is a move by Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt to roll back 2012 rules aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions. Under those rules vehicles would have to get 36 miles of real world driving per gallon about 10 miles over the existing standard. Pollutants coming out of vehicles out of the tailpipe does permanent lung damage to children living near well traveled roads and freeways. This is a fact. The only way we're going to overcome that is by reducing emissions Gov. Jerry Brown said in announcing the lawsuit along with other top California Democrats. The rules were set six years ago when California and the Obama administration agreed to a single nationwide fuel economy standard. Pruitt who has sought to block or delay an array of environmental regulations has argued that assumptions about gas prices and vehicle technology used by the Obama administration to set the standards were too optimistic. And he said the standards would hurt automakers and consumers who can't afford or don't want to buy more fuel efficient vehicles. Automakers have likewise argued that the Obama era rules would cost the industry billions of dollars and raise vehicle prices because of the cost of developing the necessary technology. EPA representatives did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment on the lawsuit. California officials say the standards are achievable and the EPA's effort to repeal them is not based on any new research. They argue the plan violates the federal Clean Air Act and didn't follow the agency's own regulations. California has a unique waiver that allows it to set its own tailpipe emissions standards for vehicles which it has used to combat smog and more recently global warming. Thirteen other states and the District of Columbia have adopted the California standards as their own. California has now sued the Trump administration more than 30 times on topics including immigration and health care policy. The world is not flat pollution is not free and the health and safety of our children is not for sale said Democratic state Attorney General Xavier Becerra standing alongside the governor. Brown who has made fighting climate change a core of his policy and political platform said the state's battles with Washington over climate are the most essential. If we follow the Pruitt Trump path we follow our way off the cliff to disaster he said. The lawsuit was filed in the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Joining California were Connecticut Delaware Illinois Iowa Maine Maryland Minnesota New Jersey New York Oregon Rhode Island Vermont Washington Massachusetts Pennsylvania Virginia and the District of Columbia. All have Democratic attorneys general.	True	True	True	True	False
World leaders reacted with dismay Thursday to President Trump's announcement that he was pulling out of the Paris climate accord while three prominent European heads of state rejected his suggestion that the deal could be renegotiated. French President Emmanuel Macron German Chancellor Angela Merkel and and Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentilonisaid in a joint statement that they regretted the United States' decision to withdraw from the accord but affirmed our strongest commitment to implement its measures and encouraged all our partners to speed up their action to combat climate change. While Trump said the United States would be willing to rejoin the accord if it could obtain more favorable terms the three European leaders said the agreement cannot be renegotiated since it is a vital instrument for our planet societies and economics. Macron repeated that belief in an English language speech from the Elysee presidential palace unprecedented from a French president in an address at home. He said I do respect this decision but I do think it is an actual mistake both for the U.S. and for our planet. Wherever we live whoever we are we all share the same responsibility make our planet great again Macron added. The European Union's top climate change official Miguel Arias Canente said in a statement that Trump's decision to leave the Paris accord made it a sad day for the global community adding that the bloc deeply regrets the unilateral decision. Canete also predicted that the EU would seek new alliances from the world's largest economies to the most vulnerable island states as well as U.S. businesses and individuals supportive of the accord. U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres called the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris climate agreement a major disappointment and said it was crucial that the United States remains a leader on environmental issues according to his spokesman. Norway's largest pension fund with 53 billion euro 59.5 billion in assets under its management said it would continue to invest in renewable energy despite the American president's decision saying in a statement that Donald Trump is jumping off a train that has already left the station. Chief executive Odd Arild Grefstad cited the growth of renewable energy in U.S. states such as Texas New York and California as signs that the world has started the transition from fossil to a renewable economy. In Mexico former President Vicente Fox criticized Trump's move saying on Twitter He's declaring war on the planet itself. Fox who has clashed with Trump since last year's presidential campaign said the U.S. leader's decision condemns this generation and those to come and would leave a dark legacy just to satisfy your greediness. Bill Ford chairman of the Ford Motor Co. also weighed in saying We believe climate change is real and remain deeply committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in our vehicles and our facilities. Before Trump announced his decision Thursday afternoon Chinese Premier Li Keqiang told reporters during a visit to Berlin that fighting global warming was a global consensus and an international responsibility. Without mentioning the U.S. specifically Li said that China in recent years has stayed true to its commitment and pointed out that his was one of the first countries to ratify the 2015 Paris Agreement. While traveling abroad last week Trump was repeatedly pressed to stay in the deal by European leaders and Pope Francis. Withdrawing would leave the United States as one of just three countries outside the agreement. The other two are Syria and Nicaragua. Russia joined the chorus speaking out for the climate accord. Speaking to reporters on Thursday before Trump's decision was announced a spokesman for President Vladimir Putin said Russia thinks highly of the accords and sees no alternative to it. Spokesman Dmitry Peskov added that its implementation will not be as effective without the key signatories. Scientists say Earth is likely to reach more dangerous levels of warming sooner if the U.S. retreats from its pledge because America contributes so much to rising temperatures. Calculations suggest withdrawal could release up to 3 billion additional tons of carbon dioxide a year enough to melt ice sheets faster raise seas higher and trigger more extreme weather. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False	True	True	True	False
As thousands of activists and scientists around the world gather to March for Science Bill Nye has a U.S. Constitution lesson for Donald Trump that proves he must advance scientific causes. In an interview on MSNBCs AM Joy Nye said that it explicitly states in the Constitution that the U.S. government must promote the progress of science and useful arts something the Trump administration isnt even close to upholding. Nye had a reminder for the Trump administration I just want to remind the administration that science is political. It is inherently political like everything else Its in the U.S. Constitution Article 1 Section 8 to promote the progress of science and useful arts. And my interpretationof the expression useful arts is engineering. In those days it would be architecture city planning designing of the drainage systems sewage systems and communications systems. This is all in the U.S. Constitution Thats what enables innovation and if our country stops innovating it will not be able to compete worldwide. Nye said that solutions to battling climate change are realistic and doable if the United States simply puts resources toward the effort and decides to act. We could get to 80 percent renewables in the next 15 years we could 100 percent renewable in the next 30 years and we wouldnt have to have a military on the other side of the world protecting oil fields so that we could get our fossil fuels here in North America he said. Once again the biggest hurdle in battling climate change isnt the existence of feasible solutions those already exist. The problem at least in the United States is Republicans in Congress and now the White House especially Trump who believes climates change is a hoax who continue to deny that the climate crisis is happening in the first place despite the overwhelming evidence. Donald Trump isnt just shirking his constitutional responsibility to advance scientific innovation but hesputting at risk the only planet we have.	True	True	False	True	False
The twin disasters of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma showcased once again the media's reflex to use such tragedies to push for liberal climate change policies. In their pursuit of this agenda the broadcast networks' have heavily criticized the Trump administration's policies on the environment. From January 20 through August 31 MRC analysts tallied 75 stories discussing the President and climate change totaling 73 minutes 43 seconds of network airtime. The commentary in these stories was as one sided as the rest of Trump's coverage has been with 88 percent of evaluative statements criticizing the President vs. a mere 12 percent that praised him. Methodology Our measure of spin was designed to isolate the networks own slant not the back and forth of partisan politics. Thus our analysts ignored soundbites which merely showcased the traditional party line Republicans supporting Trump Democrats criticizing him and instead tallied evaluative statements which imparted a clear positive or negative tone to the story such as statements from experts presented as non partisan voters or opinionated statements from the networks own reporters. Using these criteria MRC analysts tallied 121 evaluative statements about the Trump administrations approach to the environment from January 20 to August 31 2017 of which 106 88 were negative vs. a mere 15 12 which were positive. This study does not look at all climate change related stories during this time frame. Instead it covers specifically the coverage of President Trumps environmental agenda on ABC World News Tonight CBS Evening News and NBC Nightly News. The most consistent factor in all of this coverage was the criticism. NBC Nightly News correspondent Matt Bradleys July 30 quip that President Donald Trump shifts American climate commitments into reverse was typical of the media attitude towards the presidents environmental policies. On June 2 Nightly News correspondent Kristen Welker promoted an anti Trump protest over this decision hyping the backlash is only heating up. The same night CBS Evening Newss anchor Anthony Mason spoke of the world of opposition to withdraw from the Paris climate accord. Correspondent Chip Reid echoed by referencing worldwide condemnation. NBC Nightly News anchor Savannah Guthrie on June 1 criticized the move to withdraw from the climate treaty detractors say it is a stunning abandonment of the U.S.s leadership in the world and a grave threat to the planet itself. To their credit CBS stood alone in interviewing a conservative to hear the other side of the climate change debate. On April 22 CBS Evening News correspondent Dean Reynolds noted that Joe Bast CEO of The Heartland Institute looks with approval on Mr. Trumps decision to roll back regulations limiting greenhouse gases and to his appointments of fellow skeptics in the administration. Climate change he Bast says is a naturally occurring cyclical phenomenon caused mostly by the sun not an approaching disaster accelerated by carbon dioxide emissions caused by humans. However before stating this position Reynolds noted that most climate scientists the United Nations as well as NASA dismiss these arguments as propaganda for fossil fuels. On March 28 NBC Nightly News profiled celebrations in coal country over Trumps environmental proposals mentioning a barber shop in West Virginia where they cheered the move hoping it will bring back jobs. Afterwards correspondent Kristen Welker noted that federal data shows mines have been losing jobs for decades under both parties. Right now there are less than seventy five thousand coal jobs compared to more than six hundred and fifty thousand in renewable energy which can be less expensive to produce.	True	True	False	True	True
NEW YORK Reuters Only 200 miles separate Michael Tilden and Miranda Garcia in rain soaked Iowa. But they are worlds apart when it comes to their opinion of the weather. Garcia a 38 year old former journalist and Democrat from Des Moines thinks flooding has been getting worse in the state which just came out of its wettest 12 months on record. Tilden a 44 year old math teacher and Republican from Sioux City thinks otherwise Ive noticed essentially the same weather pattern every single year he said. Their different takes underscore a broader truth about the way Americans perceive extreme weather Democrats are far more likely to believe droughts floods wildfires hurricanes and tropical storms have become more frequent or intense where they live in the last decade according to a ReutersIpsos poll. The divergence shows how years of political squabbling over global warming including disputes over its existence have grown deep roots distorting the way Americans view the world around them. The divide will play into the 2020 election as Democratic hopefuls seek to sell aggressive proposals to reduce or even end fossil fuel consumption by drawing links between climate change and recent floods storms and wildfires. Nearly two thirds of Democrats believe severe thunderstorms and floods have become more frequent compared to 42 and 50 of Republicans respectively according to the poll. About half of Democrats meanwhile think droughts hurricanes and tropical storms are more common in their region versus less than a third of Republicans according to the poll. Similarly nearly seven in 10 Democrats said in the poll that severe weather events such as thunderstorms have become more intense compared to 4 of 10 Republicans. And nearly half of Republicans said there has been no change in the intensity of severe weather over the past decade versus a fifth of Democrats. The ReutersIpsos poll was conducted online in English between June 11 and 14 and gathered responses from 3281 people. It has a credibility interval a measure of precision of 2 percentage points up or down. U.S. government researchers have concluded that tropical cyclone activity rainfall and the frequency of intense single day storms have been on the rise according to data compiled by the Environmental Protection Agency. For example six of the 10 most active years for tropical cyclones in the Atlantic basin since 1950 have occurred since the mid 1990s and nine of the top 10 years for extreme one day precipitation events nationwide have occurred since 1990 according to the data. We do expect to see more intense storms said David Easterling a spokesman for the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administrations National Centers for Environmental Information. An overwhelming majority of scientists believe human consumption of fossil fuels is driving sweeping changes in the global climate by ramping up the concentration of heat trapping gases in the atmosphere. But it is impossible to draw a direct link between the changes in U.S. weather in the recent past to the larger trend of warming. President Donald Trump has cast doubt on the science of climate change saying he believes that research into its severity causes and effects is not yet settled. Two years ago he announced the United States would withdraw from a global pact to reduce carbon emissions the Paris Climate Agreement a deal Trump said could damage the U.S. economy. Still a majority of Republicans believe the United States should take aggressive action to combat global warming Reuters polling shows. Some Republican lawmakers have offered proposals for market based approaches to fend off climate change such as cap and trade systems that would force companies to cut carbon emissions or buy credits from those that do. Democrats are pushing more aggressive ideas. Nearly all of the partys presidential hopefuls who seek to unseat Trump in next years election have put forward proposals to end U.S. fossil fuels consumption within a few decades to make the country carbon neutral. Trump has slammed the idea saying it would kill millions of jobs and crush the dreams of the poorest Americans. Jennifer Marlon a research scientist at the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication said the divergence in the way American perceive the weather is being driven by factors including the news they consume and their social circles. Liberals are more likely to expose themselves to news outlets and people who believe climate change is an urgent threat that affects current weather patterns. For more conservative Americans the link between weather and climate change is not a typical conversation Marlon said. Last year the Yale program which carries out scientific research on public knowledge about climate change set out to map the partisan divide on how people perceive the effects of global warming across the United States. It found that 22 of Republicans reported personally experiencing climate change compared to 60 of Democrats. Scientists and researchers at the University of Michigan the University of Exeter and others came to a similar conclusion in a 2018 study which found that political bias and partisan news reporting can affect whether people indicate experiencing certain extreme weather events.	False	True	False	True	False
First it was global warming andor global cooling. Then when they figured out that they couldnt accurately predict which way it was going to go they settled on climate change. Apparently that phrase just doesnt have the oomph it once did and the church of climate change wants to rebrand their apocalypse to make people far more scared and subsequently obedient. An article by Aaron Hall in AdAge asked the question of whether or not people will be more apt to fall in line with the climate alarmists if they take out the neutral sounding climate change and replace it with something you might hear Chicken Little screaming Scientific terms often fail to resonate in meaningful ways. In the early 1900s for example no one had heard of the hypothesis of the primeval atom. That changed in the 1940s when the term Big Bang was coined which was a simpler more relatable concept for the masses. This complex scientific concept is extremely well known today because a better more tangible term was applied to it. Can we use lessons from the naming of the Big Bang to rebrand climate change? Interestingly Hall notes that politicians liked global warming because it sounded dynamic and scary but since it was too easy to poke holes in they decided to move on to climate change. People began joking about wanting global warming whenever it got too cold outside and the politicians much like the devil himself cant stand it when people laugh at them. Hall being a professional namer wondered allowed about whether or not people would take the church of climate change more seriously if he renamed it to sound scarier. He said that the new name needs to appeal to people who are unscientific to help them understand the severity of the problem and inspire them to make more eco friendly life choices and pro climate choices at the ballot box. In other words it needs to scare people into voting Democrat. What did his team of global namers come up with? A bunch of names that sound like bad B Movie titles. These options are subtle brand shifts from global warming yet they deliver a more negative image. The names signal that ice caps are melting but also create a more visceral image in the mind that real feeling of melting when its too hot outside. A meltdown is a disastrous event that draws from the ultimate terror of a nuclear meltdown an apt metaphor for global destruction. In naming we call metaphorical names suggestive names and they are one of the most popular types of names. Good brand names instill a clear message or even a direct call to action. Perhaps thats why climate change isnt powerful enough Change sounds so neutral. However theres nothing neutral about collapse or chaos. Both are states of events that you absolutely want to avoid. They ask each of us to do what it takes to avoid collapsing or descending into chaos. They both also use alliteration using the same letter or sound at the beginning of connected words a naming trick proven to enhance memorability. Arresting brand names often capitalize on vivid visual associations. They refer to a tipping point that were catapulting toward and must find a way to avert. Because a boiling point is the point at which liquid vaporizes it brings forth imagery of rivers lakes and oceans boiling and disappearing. Melting Point paints a clear picture of solid matter melting. As glaciers melt and disappear so does our way of life. Its time to take the gloves off and stop pretending. Sometimes a brand name needs to be hyperbolic to truly capture hearts and minds. If we dont take massive action now Earth will be uninhabitable an irreversible barren wasteland. Plants and animals will die. Humans wont be able to survive extreme weather like floods droughts and fires. If we dont change we wont even be able to spend time outside. Scorched Earth paints the direst picture of whats to come and what we must avoid and is likely the edgiest brand name from our exploration. Those were just the winners. Hall gives an honorable mention to these as well Emission Critical Focuses on the action we need to take reducing emissions. Pre Extinction Powerful and suggests another mass extinction is imminent if we do not change our ways today. The Great Collapse The collapse of ecosystems economies and our way of life. Earthshattering Creatively arresting the complete destruction of the Earth as we know it. Whats the takeaway from all this? Not that climate change is going to end the world. Its not. No real scientific data points to that fact. The takeaway here is that there are actually people out there trying to worry you into obedience and support for a leftist agenda and in order to do that theyre willing to play with your brain by changing up the words they use. As you see above Hall even admits that theyre willing to get hyperbolic in order to make you scared.	False	False	False	True	True
Statements from activists and politicians linking natural disasters to man made global warming are almost always false according to a book debunking misinformation about climate science. The newest version of the book The Rightful Place of Science Disasters Climate Change by University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. takes on the often false claims peddled in the media about global warming and disasters from hurricanes to floods to droughts. Every time there is a disaster politicians journalists and scientists unfailingly spring to life to tell us that the disaster and the costs and suffering that accompanied it were associated with linked to or even caused by climate change Pielke wrote in his newly updated book. Such statements as Ill show in this book are almost always false he wrote. While no skeptic of man made warming Pielke painstakingly goes through peer reviewed scientific assessments separating the science from the media spin when it comes to natural disasters.RELATED Dan Rather Claims That Global Warming Rarely Tops The Headlines. Is That True? Pielkes motivation in releasing an updated version of his book initially published in 2014 was he saw the issue of extreme weather become politicized. Now journalists and politicians are tying every weather event to man made warming despite the lack of scientific evidence. For example The New Republics Emily Atkinrecently calledfor journalists to put every weather event in the context of global warming. Her call even got a reaction from NPR which defended its reporting but was sympathetic to her message. Popular figures like Bill Nye the Science Guy and former Vice President Al Gore routinely link natural disasters to global warming. California Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown blamed the intense wildfires in his state on a new normal from a warming climate. But the most thorough scientific assessments show no increasing trends in global frequency or intensity for many types of disasters including hurricanes floods droughts and wildfires. While political spin doctors often find ways to parse language and statistics to say things that are plausibly defensible but which are ultimately misleading or just wrong for me such misrepresentations have gone too far in an area where I have some considerable expertise Pielke wrote. The willingness of some in the media and the scientific community to offer false or misleading claims does not offer a route to scientific integrity Pielke wrote. Pielke gives many examples of this including The New York Times hyping of the National Climate Assessment NCA special report released in 2017. The Times claimed the NCA showed how every part of the country has been touched by warming from droughts in the Southeast to flooding in the Midwest to a worrying rise in air and ground temperatures in Alaska and conditions will continue to worsen. The article went on to quote Penn State Universitys Michael Mann to bolster its claim. But Pielke was quick to point how the NCAdid not supportThe Times sweeping claims about warming. Anyone claiming that new US climate report supports attributing trends in extremes to human causes is just wrong Pielke said at the time. However Pielke has paid a price for pointing out inconvenient truths about extreme weather and global warming. Pielkes career beentargetedby Democratic lawmakers and activist journalists to impress a billionaire donor. This stance has ultimately led me to being systematically attacked any time I make a public statement about climate change in effect railroading me out of the climate debate as an unwelcome voice Pielke wrote. While this is often extremely frustrating I remain committed to doing the best job I can analyzing data on climate and disasters in ways that are transparent and grounded in evidence.	False	False	False	True	False
Energy Secretary Rick Perry offered little explanation when protesters pressed him to explain his position on climate change at an energy conference on Tuesday. Instead he opted to tell oneyoung lady to sit down and said its OK to be skeptical about information. You are a climate denier said the first demonstrator as members of the audience booed and called for her to sit down and to get her out of here. In an attempt to defuse the tense moment Perry described the protester as one of the more interesting EIAemployees prompting laughter from the audience. Undeterred the protester kept shouting questions at Perry who then told her If youll sit down young lady Ill finish my remarks. Answer my question why will you not say that climate change is caused by carbon dioxide? she pressed. Perry was referring to remarks he made during an interview last week withCNBC Squawk Box. Perry told host Joe Kernan that carbon dioxide was not the primary control knob for climate change. While man is having an effect on climate he said most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in. His response is in stark contrast to overwhelming scientific consensus based on facts which says human activity specifically greenhouse gas emissions is the primary driver of global warming. The American Meteorological Society skewered Perry for his comments saying in a letter last week that he lacked a fundamental understanding of the science behind climate change. During his EIA conference speech on Tuesday Perry was interrupted a second time by a protester who also called him a climate denier. I think its OK for us to ask questions and be skeptical about information Perry said in response according to a EE News report of the event. Skepticism and debate are always welcome and are critically important to the advancement of science the letter said. In climate science unresolved questions remain issues that currently lack conclusive evidence. However there are also very solid conclusions that are based on decades of research and multiple lines of evidence. Skepticism that fails to account for evidence is no virtue. Later on TuesdayPerry was quizzed about climate change again during a White House press briefing arranged as part of the Trump administrations Energy Week.When asked if President Donald Trump believes in climate changePerry responded I have not had that conversation with him joining a growing list of officials who have refused to comment on the commander in chiefs position on this critical issue.	True	False	False	True	True
Most of the threats from climate change are 50 to 75 years out Wheeler asserted adding that the world should be focused on the people who are dying today the thousand children that die every day from lack of drinking water. Lets put aside the fact that climate change is not some distant challenge but one already wreaking havoc on communities around the globe and that Wheeler has proposed gutting existing regulations that protect drinking water. Its absurd to act like planetary warming isnt a significant threat to the worlds freshwater resources. Its the biggest threat of all. Climate change is a multiplier. Very few of the problems that we have right now related to water are going to be made better by climate change. Thats not going to happen. Theres no denying the magnitude of the water crisis in the U.S. and abroad. Droughts which are made worse by climate change lead towater shortages while inland and coastal flooding can contaminate drinking water supplies. Under the current climate change scenario nearly half the global population will be living in areas of high water stress by 2030 according to the United Nations which warns that water is the primary medium through which we will feel the effects of climate change. Last years Fourth National Climate Assessment the work of hundreds of scientists at more than a dozen federal agencies including the EPA documents significant changes in water quality and quantity across the country and warns that water security in the United States is increasingly in jeopardy. The report details how rising temperatures and variable precipitation can have cascading effects on water quality increasing the risk of drought pollutant runoff and harmful algal blooms. Climate change is a multiplier Caldas said. Very few of the problems that we have right now related to water are going to be made better by climate change. Thats not going to happen. Its unsurprising that Wheeler is calling for a massive mobilization to tackle water woes without acknowledging the climate change link considering the administrations relentless push to boost domestic fossil fuel production. It is also reminiscent of former Interior Department chief Ryan Zinkes response to wildfires in the western United States. And in an interview with Fox Business after returning to Washington D.C. Zinke said whether climate change is contributing to the infernos is irrelevant to whats occurred. He emphasized the need for better forest management by pointing to themore than 120 million dead trees in California but failed to mention that the trees died because of a multi year drought that scientists have concluded was made worse by anthropogenic climate change. When a reporter later pressed him outside the White House Zinke said that of course climate change is a factor in the California fires a rather unconvincing acknowledgment considering previous remarks and the number of times Zinke cast doubt on the all but irrefutable body of scientific research that shows human carbon emissions are driving global climate change. Early in his tenure former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt prioritized fixing Superfund the struggling and financially strapped program responsible for cleaning up the nations most contaminated sites. The administration then turned around and proposed slashing funding for the program from 1.09 billion to 762 million. Pruitt said that it wasnt a lack of money that was plaguing the program but rather poor leadership and poor focus on the part of the Obama administration. Superfunds problems have almost everything to do with resources which have all but dried up over the last two decades. Superfund experts havesaid the administrations approach highlights its lack of understanding about how the program functions. EPA maintains that Superfund is a top priority and that it is making great strides in accelerating sites through remediation and back to productive use. Yet the 4.75 trillion 2020 budget blueprint the administration released this month once again calls for cutting Superfund dollars this time by 10 percent.	True	True	True	True	False
Climate scientist Cliff Mass is speaking out against academic political bullying from University of Washington faculty and students stemming from Masss rejection of a carbon tax initiative favored by activists. Science can only flourish when there is tolerance for a diversity of viewpoints and ideas Mass told The Daily Caller News Foundation. Name calling and politicization of science are toxic to the scientific enterprise and undermines our credibility in the general community. I am hopeful that the exposure of such intolerance will lead to an improved working environment in my department and among others in my discipline Mass said via email Wednesday. Climate scientist Judith Curry detailed in a blog postWednesday the actions UW and student activists have taken against Mass in recent months. Curry said Mass was a victim of academic political bullying. There are clearly UW faculty that dont like Cliff Mass including his department chair and most fundamentally they seem to dislike that his blog is getting in the way of their own political advocacy Curry wrote. Mass joined UWs Atmospheric Sciences Department in 1982 where he specializes in numerical weather modeling and weather patterns in the Pacific Northwest. Mass also publishes a science blog and has a popular weekly radio show. RELATED TheDCNF Asked Paris Climate Accord Backers If Theyd Support Banning Private Jets. Most Didnt Respond Mass is no global warming denier as many critics try to label him. Mass has repeatedly called global warming a serious threat and supported policies including carbon taxes to cut carbon dioxide emissions. Despite his agreement with the climate consensus Mass has increasingly come under fire from activists for not toeing the alarmist line when it comes to blaming extreme weather events on global warming. What seems to have driven Masss critics over the edge this time was the atmospheric scientists public opposition to a Washington state carbon tax ballot initiative called I 1631. In particular critics went after a blog post Mass wrote in mid October detailing why he opposed I 1631. Voters overwhelmingly rejected the carbon tax measure in November despite support from Gov. Jay Inslee and other Democrats. I 1631 will be a trough of billions of dollars of cash for left leaning social action and progressive groups and dealing with climate change will be a secondary priority Mass wrote in a blog post with a picture of pigs feeding at a trough. The picture has since been removed. The imagery of pigs feeding at a trough has long been used to describe special interest groups trying to syphon off government spending. State spending seen as wasteful or geared toward a special interest is often called pork or pork barrel spending. However UW students and climate activists claimed it was racist. I 1631 campaigner Izzy Goodman tweetedin October that this alone proves that he is a blatant racist which is probably why his climate policies are too!. She later added UW you going to stand for this? When Mass tried to reason with her UW philosophy Ph.D. candidate Alex Lenferna tweeted Calling you racist for saying racist things is not name calling its an accurate description. The post showed Masss small government racist anti working class view tweeted Lenferna who also campaigned for I 1631. Student activists didnt stop at Twitter insults. Curry who spoke at length with Mass about the events wrote The attacks ramped up when a group of students complained to the Assistant Dean for Diversity Equity and Inclusion. Curry said the students accused Mass of deception being on the payroll of oil companies purposely obfuscating with multiple twitter accounts racism misogyny tokenism Trumpism. Rather than meet with Cliff Mass to discuss the Assistant Dean sent a mass email to the faculty of the Atmospheric Sciences Department echoing student complaints Curry wrote. The assistant deans email claimed the blog had imagery and text that was racially insensitive and caused offense to a significant number of members in the departmental community. The assistant dean made no attempt to contact Mass or try to understand that there was no racism evident or intended and that the image in question was quickly removed from the blog post Curry wrote. The matter didnt end there however and Atmospheric Sciences Department Chair Dale Durran sent a mass email to the Department faculty including the link to Lenfernas post and voicing concern about Mass behavior and racism' Curry noted. Durran held a faculty wide meeting on Dec. 4. Durran reportedly took control of the meeting and even prevented Mass from finishing his opening remarks. RELATED Washington Governor Warns There Is Not Survival From Climate Change. That Is Unless His Policies Are Adopted Durran hectored Mass throughout the meeting Curry wrote. The activist students were true to form hurling all kinds of insulting personal and inappropriate remarks as Mass sat through the inquisition. Duran was an ardent supporter of I 1631. Durran got 21 of his colleagues to sign a public letter published in The Seattle Times in late October endorsing the carbon tax ballot measure. Now is the time to take a big step to kick our carbon habit Durran and his colleagues wrote. However Curry reported that several faculty members felt uncomfortable signing this including one who told her they actually voted against the measure. Durran did not respond to TheDCNFs request for comment. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	True	False
President Trump exceeded his authority when he reversed bans on offshore drilling in vast parts of the Arctic Ocean and dozens of canyons in the Atlantic Ocean a U.S. judge said in a ruling that restored the Obama era restrictions. U.S. District Court Judge Sharon Gleason in a decision late Friday threw out Mr. Trump's executive order that overturned the bans that comprised a key part of Obama's environmental legacy. Presidents have the power under a federal law to remove certain lands from development but cannot revoke those removals Gleason said. The wording of President Obama's 2015 and 2016 withdrawals indicates that he intended them to extend indefinitely and therefore be revocable only by an act of Congress said Gleason who was nominated to the bench by Obama. The American Petroleum Institute a defendant in the case disagreed with the ruling. In addition to bringing supplies of affordable energy to consumers for decades to come developing our abundant offshore resources can provide billions in government revenue create thousands of jobs and will also strengthen our national security it said in a statement. Erik Grafe an attorney with Earthjustice welcomed the ruling saying it shows that the president cannot just trample on the Constitution to do the bidding of his cronies in the fossil fuel industry at the expense of our oceans wildlife and climate. Earthjustice represented numerous environmental groups that sued the Trump administration over the April 2017 executive order reversing the drilling bans. At issue in the case was the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. Acting Assistant U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Wood said during a hearing before Gleason in November that environmental groups were misinterpreting the intent of the law written in 1953. He said it is meant to be flexible and sensible and not intended to bind one president with decisions made by another when determining offshore stewardship as needs and realities change over time. In 2015 Mr. Obama halted exploration in coastal areas of the Beaufort and Chukchi seas and the Hanna Shoal an important area for walrus. In late 2016 he withdrew most other potential Arctic Ocean lease areas about 98 percent of the Arctic outer continental shelf. The bans were intended to protect polar bears walruses ice seals and Alaska Native villages that depend on the animals. In the Atlantic Mr. Obama banned exploration in 5937 square miles of underwater canyon complexes citing their importance for marine mammals deep water corals valuable fish populations and migratory whales.	True	False	False	True	True
CNN The new government report on climate change which the Trump administration released quietly a day after Thanksgiving and two days after President Donald Trump tweeted skeptically about the existence of climate change warns that the drastic human effects on the climate could cause thousands of Americans to die and cost the US economy hundreds of billions of dollars. But even before the report was made public Americans were extremely worried about climate change. Almost two thirds 64 of voters said the US needs to be doing more to address climate change according to a poll by Quinnipiac University in August up from 57 who said the same in December 2015 This opinion is divided by party lines 91 of Democrats said more should be done and 67 of independents agreed. Fewer Republicans one third said more should be done about climate change and another third of Republicans thought that the US is doing enough to address climate change. In the December 2015 Quinnipiac poll 83 of Democrats thought the US should be doing more compared to 62 of independents and 26 of Republicans. The Trump administration chose to speed up release of the new report which is required by law putting it out on Black Friday instead of in December. It also came two days after Trump issued another tweet transmitting his skepticism of the existence of Climate change. Brutal and Extended Cold Blast could shatter ALL RECORDS Whatever happened to Global Warming? he said Wednesday on Twitter. An earlier portion of the climate change report was released in November 2017 and found no convincing alternative explanation for the changing climate other than human activities especially emissions of greenhouse gases. Trump has stood by his years old claim that climate change is a hoax and emphasized that belief with his statements about the California wildfires which he said were a result of poor forest management drawing criticism from firefighters climate scientists and many others. The government report which is called the National Climate Assessment addressed wildfires reporting that one impact of climate change will be longer and more destructive wildfires that could burn up to six times more forest annually by 2050 in parts of the US. California's wildfires are the worst in the state's history. Over half 53 of voters in the August Quinnipiac poll said climate change is a factor in making fires more extreme. At that point the fires in California were only beginning and some are still burning in November so it's unclear whether that number has changed since August. Eight in 10 Democrats 54 of independents and 22 of Republicans thought in August that climate change has an impact the fires. Another impact of climate change will be on the health of Americans whether because of extreme heat and higher temperatures diseases like Zika that come from mosquitoes and ticks more food and waterborne diseases or higher risk of asthma and allergies. Concern about climate change and global warming has gone up in the last few years from 33 who said they worry a great deal about it in March 2013 to 43 who say the same now according to Gallup Around the same number 45 said they think global warming will pose a serious threat to them or their way of life in their lifetimes in the March poll. That's up from 2010 when Gallup first asked it and only a third of Americans thought global warming would impact them. Democrats are much more likely to think they'll be impacted 67 than independents 45 or Republicans 18 but whether that's because more Democrats live in coastal regions or due to just plain partisanship it's hard to tell. In a statement by White House deputy press secretary Lindsey Walters the Trump administration downplayed the report saying it is largely based on the most extreme scenario which contradicts long established trends by assuming that despite strong economic growth that would increase greenhouse gas emissions there would be limited technology and innovation and a rapidly expanding population.	False	True	False	True	True
Former Vice President Al Gore said Monday that the U.S. is going through a challenging time under the Trump administration decrying President Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement. Weve never had a president whos deliberately made decisions the effect of which is to tear down Americas standing in the world starting with his withdrawal from the Paris Agreement Gore said Monday on NBCs Today Show. The climate crisis is by far the most serious challenge we face. Trump announced last month that the U.S. would withdraw from the Paris Agreement an international pact signed by more than 190 countries to commit to fighting climate change by reducing carbon dioxide emissions. Gore who has spent much of his time after his 2000 presidential run crusading to fight climate change met with Trump last year at Trump Tower to discuss climate change. The meetings had given Gore hope that the president would come to his senses about the Paris Agreement. But I was wrong Gore said. He declined to elaborate on what was discussed in the meeting. Trump who has called climate change a hoax argued in June that withdrawing from the Paris Agreement would benefit the U.S. economy. Well the business community does not believe that at all Gore said on CBS Sunday Morning. There are now twice as many jobs in the solar industry as in the coal industry. In the U.S. the number of solar jobs is growing 17 times faster than the number of jobs in other industries Gore said calling the solar industry one of the brightest spots in our economic revival. But the former vice president who won a Nobel Peace Prize for his climate change work has faced pushback from some conservatives for his efforts. Fox Friends criticized Gore for comparing the climate change fight to fights against moral issues such as slavery and apartheid in a July 13 speech at the Ecocity World summit in Australia. The climate movement not least in cities is right now in the tradition of all the great moral causes that have improved the circumstances of humanity throughout our history Gore said in the speech. The abolition of slavery. Womens suffrage and womens rights. The civil rights movement and the anti apartheid movement in South Africa. Seriously?? Former VP Al Gore compares climate battle to fight against slavery and apartheid Fox Friends tweeted. The longtime climate change battle advocate has taken criticism of his work in stride. If everybodys just completely happy with what youre doing you may not be working hard enough to bring about the kind of change that we need Gore said on CBS. He added that hell continue to fight climate change adding I could not lay this fight down or put it aside even if I wanted to. I dont want to. On NBC Gore was quick to say that Trumps decision to leave the Paris Agreement is just one of the ways in which the president has hurt Americas standing in the world citing damage to international alliances such as NATO. The months ahead will be a test for the American people Gore said on NBC.	True	False	False	True	True
President Donald Trump delivered a common sense appeal on Earth Day telling his followers on Twitter on Saturday afternoon Today on Earth Day we celebrate our beautiful forests lakes and land. We stand committed to preserving the natural beauty of our nation. Three hours later Trump added I am committed to keeping our air and water clean but always remember that economic growth enhances environmental protection. Jobs matter! Trumps Earth Day messages come as thousands of protesters across the country have taken to the streets to defend science against what they claim are anti science policies and proposals from the White House. Critics of Trumps energy policies seized on the opportunity to criticize the president for his Earth Day message. Roland Scahill from New York wrote If you could you would transform every inch of nature into a Trump golf course. You have no love or admiration for nature. Public radio show host Al Letson wrote How will you preserve the natural beauty of the land if you dismantle the Nathan Bernard from Brooklyn New York replied on Twitter You say Happy as you prepare to literally blow up the entire earth. Then start taking action on global warming and quit calling it fake news said self described feminist and human rights activist Cole Ledford to Trump. One of the biggest complaints from protesters is Trump has proposed cutting 54 billion from numerous federal government agencies including a cut to the Environmental Protection Agency that tops 30 percent. Trump has also issued climate and energy related executive orders the most substantial of which was signed at the end of March. In that order which is titled Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth Trump pulled back from the Obama era Clean Power Plan and lifted a 14 month moratorium on new coal leases issued to developers seeking to mine on federal lands. According to a report by Fox News the order also chips away at other regulations including scrapping language on the social cost of greenhouse gases. It initiates a review of efforts to reduce the emission of methane in oil and natural gas production as well as a Bureau of Land Management hydraulic fracturing rule to determine whether those reflect the presidents policy priorities. It also rescinds Obama era executive orders and memoranda including one that addressed climate change and national security and one that sought to prepare the country for the impacts of climate change. Trump maintains that his policies will both protect the environment and help spur job growth. Were going to have safety were going to have clean water were going to have clean air but so many regulations are unnecessary so many are job killing Trump said in March.	True	False	False	False	True
Americans should not be fooled by the Stalinist tactics being used by the White House to try to discredit the findings of mainstream climate science. The Trump administration has already purged information news2018nov01epa website climate change trump administration about climate change from government websites gagged federal experts news2017feb16science advisers climate change trump gag rule john holdren and attempted to end funding for climate change programmes budget cuts climate change clean up programs epa. Now a group of hardcore climate change deniers and contrarians linked to the administration is organising a petition leads coalition letter commission climate security in support of a new panel being set up by the National Security Council to promote an alternative official explanation for climate change. The panel will consist of scientists who do not accept the overwhelming scientific evidence that rising levels of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are behind climate change and its impacts. The petition is being circulated for signature by Myron Ebell movement greatest threat freedom says trump adviser myron ebell of the Competitive Enterprise Institute a lobby group for free market fanatics which has become infamous for championing climate change denial It does not disclose its sources of funding but is known to have received money from ExxonMobil and conservative billionaires trump global climate change denial environment such as the Koch brothers. Mr Ebell who has no expertise whatsoever in climate science or any kind of science for that matter was a member of Donald Trumps presidential transition team news2016dec12donald trump environment climate change skeptics and diverted the focus of the Environmental Protection Agency towards weakening and removing policies that limit pollution by companies including President Obamas Clean Power Plan. The creation of the new panel of climate change deniers and the recruitment of supporters to provide it with a veneer of legitimacy echoes the campaign by Joseph Stalins regime to discredit the work of geneticists who disagreed with the disastrous lysenko soviet union russia548786 pseudo scientific theories of Trofim Lysenko. Lysenko wrongly believed that acquired traits could be passed on by parents to their offspring. Stalin embraced lysenkoism as the basis for Soviet agricultural policy while also denouncing and persecuting Lysenkos scientific critics. The Trump administrations climate lysenkoism is being led by William Happer a retired professor from Princeton University who was hired by the National Security Council house role physicist happer 64 takes position senior science technology adviser in September 2018 as deputy assistant to the president and senior director for emerging technologies. Media reports suggest that Professor Happer and his fellow propagandists will target the Fourth National Climate Assessment which was prepared by leading researchers in the United States and concluded last November The impacts of climate change are already being felt in communities across the country. Although the report was subjected to rigorous review by Americas top experts at the National Academy of Sciences it was rejected by President Trump who told journalists I dont believe it. dire economic forecast climate change dont believe2118152002 Professor Happer who has not published any research on climate change in a reputable science journal has been celebrated for many years by climate change contrarians and deniers around the world. He was formerly a trustee of the George C Marshall Institute which received funding from ExxonMobil and other companies to spread doubt inside and outside the United States about the role of fossil fuels in climate change. It disappeared in 2015 and was replaced by the CO2 Coalition which was co founded by Professor Happer. The website for the Coalition asked questions 0283fe86 6ba7 makes many inaccurate and misleading assertions such as Readily available data from both governmental and non governmental sources confirms that extreme weather events in recent years have not happened more often or with greater intensity. In fact the Fifth Assessment Report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change published in 2013 concluded Changes in many extreme weather and climate events have been observed since about 1950. A recent leak of the Coalitons tax filing showed that its largest donors are conservative groups such as the Mercer Family Foundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation which have a long track record of funding climate change denial. Professor Happer has also collaborated with climate change deniers in other countries such as the United Kingdom. In 2010 he joined the Academic Advisory Committee of the Global Warming Policy Foundation which was set up by Lord Lawson to campaign against polices to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the consumption of fossil fuels. He stepped down from the committee when he was hired by the White House. The foundation published a pamphlet by Professor Happer reportshapper thetruthaboutgreenhousegases.pdf in August 2011 which disputed the scientific evidence that greenhouse gases are causing climate change. In July 2014 Professor Happer caused controversy during an interview on CNBC television climate expert demonization of carbon dio200107 in the United States when he claimed that the demonisation of carbon dioxide is just like the demonisation of the poor Jews under Hitler. Carbon dioxide is actually a benefit to the world and so were the Jews. He was also forced to defend himself after Greenpeace revealed an exchange of email messages Email Chain Happer O Keefe and Donors Trust.html during which Professor Happer discussed writing reports to promote climate change denial in exchange for a secret fee paid to the CO2 Coalition. Americans should not be conned by the Trump administrations climate lysenkoism and should instead place their trust in the robust findings of climate researchers climate09.pdf who place the public interest ahead of political ideology. 	False	True	False	False	False
The Seychelles has created protected areas the size of Great Britain in the Indian Ocean. In exchange for getting some of its national debt paid off the island nation has agreed to protect 210000 sq km 81000 sq miles of ocean. The reserves will limit tourism and fishing activities in the Seychelles to halt further damage to aquatic life. A foundation set up by actor Leonardo DiCaprio is one of the investors that worked on the deal. The Oscar winner said This effort will help the people of Seychelles protect their ocean for future generations and will serve as a model for future marine conservation projects worldwide. Seychelles President Danny Faure said Our large ocean brings development opportunities but also responsibility. By planning properly to protect our environment we can be sure we are also protecting our people and their livelihoods against an uncertain future. This is understood to be the first debt swap designed to protect ocean areas in the world. The Seychelles government agreed the debt swap with the Nature Conservancy a US charity and a number of investors back in 2016. Under the terms of the 21m 15m deal the charity and the investors including the Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation paid for a portion of the Seychelles national debt. The country will then direct future national debt payments into a new trust the Seychelles Conservation and Climate Adaptation Trust SeyCCAT. This trust will offer lower interest rates on debt repayments and any savings will go to fund new projects designed to protect marine life and handle the effects of climate change. The Seychelles is raising the percentage of its protected waters from 0.04 to 30 by 2020 as part of the agreement. This first part of the plan creates two new marine parks. The first covers the Aldabra islands home to hundreds of thousands of tortoises nesting bird colonies and the dugong one of the more endangered species in the Indian Ocean. This area will be fully protected with only research and regulated tourism allowed. The second area concerns the seas around the Seychelles' main islands and will limit the fishing and tourism activities there. This is a critical accomplishment in our mission to bring conservation to scale across the globe said Nature Conservancy CEO Mark Tercek. What you see today in Seychelles is what we expect to introduce in the Caribbean and other ocean regions facing the threats of climate change.	True	True	False	True	True
So saysJames Lovelock 98 one of the worlds pre eminent environmentalists in a wide ranging interview on todays Delingpole podcast for Breitbart. Lovelock is probably best known in environmental circles as the progenitor of Gaia theory the idea that the planet is a self regulating living organism. In 2006 he boosted his green credibility even further with his bestselling book The Revenge of Gaia whose doomsday narrative predicted that by 2100 climate change would have wiped out 80 percent of the worlds population. But Lovelock has since renounced this view. Though he still thinks carbon dioxide is a problem because of its warming effects on the climate he now believes the threat is not immediate. His change of heart was brought aboutpartly by being in Oslo when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. He was not impressed by the calibre of the scientists attached to the IPCC least of all its then head Rajendra Pachauri who turned out to be somewhat corrupt. There is global warming. But the stupid bloody academics screwed it up he says now meaning that they got their sums wrong and exaggerated the speed with which the planet is warming. A bigger worry he says are the wrong headed policies being introduced supposedly to combat climate change. He particularly loathes wind turbines because they are expensive inefficient and environmentally damaging. The only reason they are being built he says is because there is so much money in renewable energy. Im sure theres giant corruption going on. The solution he argues is nuclear power which has had a terrible press because of green propaganda most likely funded by fossil fuel industries. Nuclears health risks have been exaggerated by credulous greens who say theres no amount of radiation that cant give you cancer. But this is nonsense says Lovelock. Its as stupid as saying you should never go out of your home because if you do theres a chance youll be killed by something or other. He feels the same way about the scare about pesticides which greens have been heavily promoting ever since Rachel Carsons eco doom bestseller Silent Spring published in 1962. It was Lovelock who invented the device an Electron Capture Detector used to measure the tiniest quantities of substances be they pesticides or CFCs. What this device showed is that yes pesticides have indeed become so embedded in the food chain that they are detectable in every living thing. This has made the Greens very happy he says because it seems to confirm all their worst suspicions about pollutants chemicals and health hazards. But it shouldnt he adds because with certain exceptions they are not a problem. The fact that this stuff is there measured in picograms or fractions of a picogram is of no consequence to people he says. Lovelocks remarks are unlikely to endear him to the green movement. His Gaia hypothesis first formulated in the 1960s while he was working with NASA trying to establish how to detect life on Mars has inspired many people to join the green religion. And even like actress Emma Thompson to name their daughter after it. But far far worse in many environmentalists eyes will bethe unlikely revelation he confided to me over lunch hes a great admirer of Donald Trump whom he recognises as a fellow maverick.	False	False	True	False	False
SACRAMENTO Calif. Commissions that oversee coastal lands and water pushed the Trump administration to leave California out of plans to expand offshore drilling saying the state will throw up any barriers possible to prevent pumping and transportation of oil. The warning came weeks after Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke said he wants to open nearly all U.S. coastlines to offshore oil and gas drilling. Since then the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management has proposed six sales of drilling rights off the California coast and a seventh off Oregon and Washington between 2020 and 2023. Given how unpopular oil development in coastal waters is in California it is certain that the state would not approve new pipelines or allow the use of existing pipelines to transport oil from new leases onshore the State Lands Commission wrote in a letter Wednesday to federal officials. The commission controls up to 3 miles offshore at which point federal jurisdiction kicks in. It has not allowed drilling in the state controlled waters since a 1969 oil spill near Santa Barbara. State and local governments could also block the construction of helipads and other infrastructure on land needed to support offshore operations. In the 1980s many coastal cities passed ordinances to block such infrastructure when President Ronald Reagan looked to expand offshore drilling. Many of those laws remain in place. Drillers could find ways around state and local restrictions such as pumping oil directly onto ships for transport but the process is expensive and may not be profitable if oil prices remain relatively low. A separate letter from the California Coastal Commission warned that an oil spill would devastate the states tourism economy and coastal beauty. The letter pointed to the Santa Barbara spill which caused severe environmental damage hurt the fishing industry and dissuaded tourists from visiting. The commission has authority to review activities in federally controlled waters. It cant block drilling but could file a lawsuit contending the move doesnt meet ocean management plans approved jointly by the state and federal governments in the 1970s. Weve fought similar efforts before and we will fight them again Coastal Commission Chair Dayna Bochco said. The state agencies weighed in ahead of a public meeting Thursday in Sacramento the only opportunity for people to register their opinions in person to the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management. Fishermen environmentalists surfers and other critics demonstrated outside the state Capitol before marching to the meeting at a nearby library. Several demonstrators chanted in opposition at the open house style meeting where bureau scientists talked one on one with visitors and collected written comments. Why do we want to let someone start drilling for more oil when we need to be putting money into resources for green economy and green fuel said Jim Wilson a 71 year old retired mail carrier from Placerville outside Sacramento. Earlier in the day the California Assembly voted overwhelmingly to oppose renewed drilling. We are California and we will fight back to protect our beautiful coast said Assemblyman Al Muratsuchi of Torrance. Republicans Randy Voepel of Santee and Travis Allen of Huntington Beach said California can safely harvest oil and gas. Allen a GOP candidate for governor said that could help lower gasoline prices. Most of Californias outer continental shelf the area that would be opened to drilling is in shallow water where operations are not complicated said Tim Charters senior director of government and political affairs for the National Ocean Industries Association a trade group for the offshore energy industry. Its critical to keep the dollars at home create the jobs locally instead of sending the money overseas and creating jobs in foreign places he said. Zinke angered critics when he said drilling off Floridas coast would remain off limits prompting California Gov. Jerry Brown and others to request a similar exemption. Regulators later said no final decision had been made about Florida. On Tuesday more than 100 demonstrators gathered outside Oregons state Capitol in Salem to denounce the proposal. A day later in New Jersey more than a dozen groups held a rally in the driving rain on the Asbury Park boardwalk to demonstrate their opposition. Twenty three meetings are planned nationwide in coastal states. Comments can be submitted online through March 9.	True	True	False	True	True
A federal judge smacked down a new effort by the Trump administration to roll back an Obama era rule aimed at restricting harmful methane emissions from oil and gas production on federal lands according to a new report on Wednesday. The news comes as Donald Trumps Interior Department was in the process of delaying the regulation until 2019 calling it too burdensome to the industry. More from the report via The Washington Post The order by a judge in San Francisco came as the Interior Department moved to delay the rule until 2019 saying it was too burdensome to industry. The action followed an earlier effort by Interior to postpone part of the rule set to take effect next year. U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte of the Northern District of California said Interior had failed to give a reasoned explanation for the changes and had not offered details why an earlier analysis by the Obama administration was faulty. She ordered the entire rule reinstated immediately. As the U.S. Magistrate Judge Laporte noted in her ruling the reason she called for the Obama era rule to be reinstated right away is that the Trump administration cannot give a reasoned explanation as to why its flawed. In a way that cuts to the heart of everything this administration has done so far when it comes to environmental policy. After all there is no reasonable explanation for anything this president has done when it comes to the environment whether its allowing toxic sludge to be dumped in our waterways or pulling out of the historic Paris climate accord. While the previous administration let science and data drive its climate agenda the Trump administration has had one goal in mind destroying former President Obamas environmental legacy. On Wednesday one federal judge reminded Donald Trump that hating Barack Obama is not a good enough reason to ignore key environmental protections.	True	False	False	True	True
Former Vice President Al Gore accused the Trump administration of trying to bury a damning government report that linked global warming to the worsening of natural disasters by quietly releasing the study on the Friday after Thanksgiving. Gore who since his time as vice president has become an outspoken advocate for the need to counteract the effects of global warming said in a statement that the White House was trying to bury this critical U.S. assessment of the climate crisis by releasing it the day after Thanksgiving. The day known as Black Fridayhas become the traditional start of the holiday shopping season and one that most Americans have off from work. Unbelievably deadly and tragic wildfires rage in the West hurricanes batter our coasts and the Trump administration chooses the Friday after Thanksgiving to try and bury this critical U.S. assessment of the climate crisis Gore said in a statement that he posted on Twitter Friday.The president may try to hide the truth but his own scientists and experts have made it as stark and clear as possible. The National Climate Assessment which is mandated by law every few years and is based on more than 1000 previous research studies details how global warming from the burning of coal oil and gas is hurting each region of the United States and how it impacts different sectors of the economy including energy and agriculture. It was written long before the deadly fires in California this month and before Hurricanes Florence and Michael raked the East Coast and Florida. Climate change is transforming where and how we live and presents growing challenges to human health and quality of life the economy and the natural systems that support us the report says. This includes worsening air pollution causing heart and lung problems more diseases from insects the potential for a jump in deaths duringheat waves and nastier allergies according to the report. Annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century more than the current gross domestic product GDP of many U.S. states the report says. It'll be especially costly on the nation's coasts because of rising seas and severe storm surges which will lower property values. And in some areas such as parts of Alaska and Louisiana coastal flooding will likely force people to relocate. While Gore has become one of the most prominent advocates for reducing carbon emissions and fighting to reduce the effect of climate change the former vice president has not been immune from claims that his work is not as altruistic as it appears. Gore left the vice presidents residence with a relatively modest net worth of 1.7 million mostly from family farm assets but since the release of his 2006 documentary An Inconvenient Truth and his continuing global tour to preach his message he has amassed a fortune valued at upward of 200 million. From the fossil fuels he burns jetting around the globe to his socializing with Hollywood heavy hitters to his 6500 square foot seafront home in California that cost 8.8 million some climate activists have questioned whether Gore is helping or hurting the climate fight. He is a flawed character Stephen Lacey editor in chief of the magazine GreenTechMedia said on his podcast The Energy Gang last year. Were in an era of backlash against elites so Gore a guy who bought a 6500 square foot seafront home in California for 8.8 million and who hangs around with other celebrities who talk big on climate but who live lavish lifestyles is the perfect target at this point in time. Gores lifestyle aside his statement comes amid what appears to be a continuing denial from Trump and members of his administration about the dangers climate changeposes to the environment and to the worlds economy. Earlier in the week Trump tweeted about the brutal cold spell that hit the East Coast over the Thanksgiving holiday and questioned Whatever happened to Global Warming? Friday's report seemed to anticipate such comments saying Over shorter timescales and smaller geographic regions the influence of natural variability can be larger than the influence of human activity ... Over climate timescales of multiple decades however global temperature continues to steadily increase. The Lower 48 states have warmed 1.8 degrees 1 degree Celsius since 1900 with 1.2 degrees in the last few decades according to the report. By the end of the century the U.S. will be 3 to 12 degrees 1.6 to 6.6 degrees Celsius hotter depending on how much greenhouse gases are released into the atmosphere the report warns. Releasing the report on Black Friday is a transparent attempt by the Trump administration to bury this report and continue the campaign of not only denying but suppressingthe best of climate science said study co author Andrew Light an international policy expert at the World Resources Institute. During a press conference Friday officials behind the report repeatedly declined to answer questions about the timing of its release and why it contradicts public statements from Trump. Report director David Reidmiller said questions about the timing were relevant but said what was in the report was more important. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	True	False	True	True	True
Democrats and conservatives alike say they can help President Donald Trump cut corporate taxes and put money in the pockets of American taxpayers but it will come at a price penalizing coal miners and fossil fuel interests for contributing to global warming. A pair of Democratic senators and the bipartisan Climate Leadership Council aim to make a fee on carbon emissions part of tax reform. Their plans would essentially transfer money from greenhouse gas polluters to individual and corporate taxpayers. The goal of a carbon tax is to reduce the use of goods and services that produce greenhouse gas emissions and to convince companies to reduce their emissions. That would be a hard pill for Trump to swallow given his pledge to revive the coal industry and put miners back to work.	True	True	False	True	True
Strong winds on Sunday were expected to hamper progress for crews battling California wildfires which have now claimed at least 79 lives. Gusts of up to 50mph were threatening efforts to control the Camp blaze which is still only 55 contained 10 days after it brought devastation to northern California. The fire which destroyed nearly 10000 homes and has spread across 233sq miles is already the deadliest American wildfire in a century. And there are fears that the eventual death toll will rise much higher with almost 1300 people still unaccounted for. However it seems likely that number of missing persons may be an over estimate amid confusion over the way the list has been compiled. Butte county sheriff Kory Honea has stressed that the roster has been built up from missing person reports from calls reports and emails since the fire began on 8 November. He has described it as raw data and said there is the likely possibility that the list contains duplicate names and some evacuees who have not reported themselves safe. Californias outgoing Democratic governor Jerry Brown visited the scene of devastation at the town of Paradise with Donald Trump on Saturday. He told CBSs Face the Nation that Trump has got our back and has committed emergency support. Trump initially blamed state officials for poor forest management in making the fires in northern and southern California worse and even threatened to cut off federal funding. At the scene on Saturday Trump recounted a conversation he had in Paris on 11 November with Finlands president Sauli Niinisto who talked about monitoring forest resources with a good surveillance system. Trump said wildfires werent a problem in Finland because the Finns spend a lot of time on raking leaves and cleaning and doing things. But Sauli Niinist president of Finland told one of the countrys leading newspapers Ilta Sanomat on Sunday that he never discussed raking with Trump. I mentioned to him that Finland is a land covered by forests and we also have a good monitoring system and network Niinist said but had no recollection of mentioning raking of leaves or forest undergrowth which the president appears to have seized on as a key point in wildfire prevention while dismissing the issue of global warming. Asked on Saturday whether he thought climate change had a role in the fires he said you have a lot of factors. And asked if seeing the devastation changed his mind on climate change Trump said No. No. I have a strong opinion. I want great climate. Were going to have that. Jerry Brown in the interview aired on Sunday said Changing climate and the increasing drought and the lower humidity and water vapor were important factors. He said Managing the forest is part of it. Theyre a lot denser than they were 200 years ago. But on top of that we have this five year drought. We have reduced rainfall. We have the dryness that turns vegetation and bushes and houses and trees into literally into timber. So its ready to explode. So there is an atmospheric element which is part of the natural cycle and then there is an increasing effect of climate change. But asked if he had made that case to Trump he said I certainly raised it but I didnt feel that that was where we needed to go then added that science would be the guide for analysing the fires and the president in no way negated that.	False	False	False	True	True
Sen. Elizabeth Warren D MA on Wednesday unveiled her plan to address environmental injustice and environmental racism which includes a 1 trillion investment into minority communities affected by industrial pollution. Warren argues that justice plays a massive role in properly addressing the climate change crisis citing studies that suggest that black and Hispanic families are disproportionately affected by air pollution caused by white people Warren calls this phenomenon environmental racism and concludes that environmental injustice is the result of decades of discrimination and environmental racism compounding in communities that have been overlooked for too long. She previewed her plan in a video clip featuring far left Squad member Rep. Rashida Tlaib D MI. We need a government thats on the side of familiesnot giant corporations polluting our communities. and I walked through 48217 the most polluted zip code in Michigan and talked with the families living every day with the effects of pollution Warren tweeted alongside the clip Like Warrens other proposals her environmental injustice plan weaves in aspects of her other campaign promises. For instance Warren says her housing plan will provide an assistance program aimed to get impoverished families out of poor pollution ridden neighborhoods and into the neighborhood of their choice. She also pledges to invest one third or 1 trillion of her climate change investment into the most vulnerable communities although she does not specify what the 1 trillion will be spent on specifically. Like most of Warrens plans her environmental injustice proposal involves the implementation of another tax. In this instance it is the Superfund Waste Tax. There are over 1300 remaining Superfund sites across the country many located in or adjacent to frontline communities. So called orphan toxic waste clean ups were originally funded by a series of excise taxes on the petroleum and chemical industries. But thanks to Big Oil and other industry lobbyists when that tax authority expired in 1995 it was not renewed. Polluters must pay for the consequences of their actions not leave them for the communities to clean up. Ill work with Congress to reinstate and then triple the Superfund tax generating needed revenue to clean up the mess. The presidential hopeful even weaves in Medicare for All as part of her broader proposal arguing such a system will make it easier for the federal government to quickly tailor health care responses to specific environmental disasters in affected communities when they occur. Warren also reiterates her pledge to ensure that employers and our government honor the promises they made to workers in fossil fuel industries. Ive fought for years to protect pensions and health benefits for retired coal workers and Ill continue fighting to maintain the solvency of multi employer pension plans she said. As president Ill protect those benefits that fossil fuel workers have earned. However Warrens role in crafting a petition to the Supreme Court on behalf of LTV Steel which helped the companys fight against a congressional requirement that it pay millions of dollars into a fund for its retired coal miners health care calls her promise into question. As Ive traveled this country Ive heard the human stories from frontline communities. Families where many people have cancer. Coastal communities facing the threat of rising sea levels. Ruined land and poisoned water Warren tweeted. These communities need justiceand I will stand with them she added	True	False	False	True	False
In an interview with Breitbart News last month the former Montana congressman and Navy SEAL dismissed reports that his days in the Trump administration were numbered as nothing more than rumors. But the intense scrutiny Zinke was certain to face next year from House Democrats wielding new oversight authority turned out to be a fight that he or perhaps the boss hes been so loyal to wasnt up for. President Donald Trump announced early Saturday that Zinke will resign at the end of the year. Zinkes final day as agency chief will be Jan. 2 The Associated Press reported Saturday citing his resignation letter. Thats one day before Democrats take control of the House of Representatives. In recent weeks some Democratic lawmakers made clear that they intended to investigate both Zinkes personal conduct and policy decisions. He has faced nearly 20 federal investigations one of which has been referred to the Justice Department for possible criminal violations. Rep. Gerry Connolly D Va. the vice ranking member of the House oversight committee told HuffPost last month that Zinke is definitely going to be a subject of great interest following a complete desert of oversight under the Republican watch. Since Trump took office Republicans on the House oversight committee have denied more than 60 subpoena requests from Democratic members including one related to Zinkes reassignment of career employees. And Rep. Raul Grijalva D Ariz. one of Zinkes fiercest critics in Washington and the incoming chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee told Outside Magazineand other outlets he was prepared to subpoena Zinke if necessary to obtain information. In his resignation letter to Trump Zinke wrote that vicious and politically motivated attacks against him had created an unfortunate distraction according to the AP. And in a statement posted to Twitter the ongoing agency chief said he cannot justify spending thousands of dollars defending myself and my family against false allegations. While it appears on the surface that Zinkes departure was a personal decision the AP and The New York Times reported Saturday that the White House forced him out over concerns about ongoing scandals mounting scrutiny and negative press. This is no kind of victory but Im hopeful that it is a genuine turning of the page Grijalva said in a statement. The next secretary should respect public desire for strong environmental standards and an end to corporate favoritism. There had been numerous signs that Zinke was possibly on his way out. Last month Trump told reporters that Zinke is doing an excellent job but that he would take a look at the allegations against him and soon make a decision about his future. Zinkes personal attack last month against the congressman soon to wield oversight power over him only added to the speculation. In recent interviews and public appearances Zinke seemed to be working to maintain his boss approval. He told Bloomberg that Trump is great to work for despite occasional calls at 2 a.m. and that if you do your job he supports you. And Zinke repeatedly touted the administrations effort to boost domestic fossil fuel production while continuing to ignore the scientific communitys dire warnings that we are running out of time to rein in greenhouse gas emissions and stave off catastrophic climate change. Im proud of the fact that were the No. 1 oil and gas producer in the world he said at a Dec. 11 briefing to announce a proposed rollback of Obama era clean water rules. Im proud of the fact that were going to get even better. Because when America prospers the world is safer. Stepping down now may spare Zinke some embarrassment but it will not reduce the need for oversight of the Administrations poor stewardship at Interior Rep. Don Beyer D Va. said in a statement. For all his feigned swagger Ryan Zinke lacked the courage or integrity to face accountability skipping town as soon as he faced scrutiny Evers said. Unfortunately for the American people Zinke leaves behind a deputy secretary with similar ethical concerns. It is high time for the glare of sunlight to focus on Deputy Secretary David Bernhardt. Well see if he has the spine to answer questions that Zinke lacked.	True	True	False	False	False
ROME Pope Francis told a group of lawyers that he could like to introduce the category of ecological sin into official Catholic teaching. We must introduce we are thinking about it in the Catechism of the Catholic Church the sin against ecology the ecological sin against the common home because it is a duty the pope said Friday in addressing participants in an international conference on penal law. More specifically Francis said are all those actions that can be considered as ecocide for instance the massive contamination of air land and water resources the large scale destruction of flora and fauna and any action capable of producing an ecological disaster or destroying an ecosystem. Ecocide is to be understood as the loss damage or destruction of the ecosystems of a given territory so that its utilization by inhabitants has been or can be seen as severely compromised he said adding that such a sin is a fifth category of crimes against peace which should be recognised as such by the international community. The pontiff said that such actions are usually caused by corporations and an elementary sense of justice would require that they be punished for them. An ecological sin is an action or omission against God against ones neighbour the community and the environment Francis said quoting the Fathers of the recently concluded Pan Amazon Regional Synod. It is a sin against future generations and is manifested in acts and habits of pollution and destruction of the harmony of the environment in transgressions against the principles of interdependence and in the breaking of networks of solidarity between creatures. Above and beyond its sinfulness failure to care for the environment is an injustice and a crime Francis suggested and should be legally enforced. I would like to appeal to all the leaders and actors in this area to contribute their efforts to ensuring adequate legal protection for our common home he said. The popes words coincided with the release of a new survey by the Pew Research Center which found that church going Americans accept their clergys on spiritual matters but generally distrust their advice on issues such as climate change. Pew found that 68 percent of U.S. adults who attend religious services at least a few times a year say they have a lot of confidence in the advice of their clergy on growing closer to God yet just a small fraction of this number 13 percent say they have this confidence when the topic is climate change. Pope Francis has thrown his moral weight behind the battle against anthropogenic climate change but has also acknowledged that the Church has no authority on scientific questions. In his 2015 encyclical letter on the environment Francis urging nations and individuals to exercise more responsible stewardship of the created world but insisted that he wanted to encourage debate rather than pronounce on environmental issues. On many concrete questions he wrote the Church has no reason to offer a definitive opinion she knows that honest debate must be encouraged among experts while respecting divergent views. Here I would state once more that the Church does not presume to settle scientific questions or to replace politics Francis said. But I am concerned to encourage an honest and open debate so that particular interests or ideologies will not prejudice the common good.	True	False	False	True	True
WASHINGTON The Democratic chairman of a key congressional panel Tuesday characterized the Trump administration's latest efforts to challenge the science behind climate change as dangerous. The comments by Rep. JosSerrano D N.Y. chairman of aHouse Appropriations subcommittee overseeing federal climate fundingcame amid news reports that White House officials are putting together a national security advisory panel aimed at countering the science behind human caused global warming. The panel's findings could give President Donald Trump who has challenged his own government's conclusions about the causes of and threats from climate change more ammunition to ignore it. Serrano who chairs the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce Justice Science and Related Agencies said that would be perilous. This unaccountable working group appears set to deliberately cherry pick data and science with the sole purpose of pushing back against the widely accepted science around climate change he said at a hearing Tuesday thatfeatured government scientists testifying on the crisis. This only serves to diminish the magnitude of this crisis and it is dangerous. Shortly after Serrano spoke Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer D N.Y. announced Senate Democrats are drafting legislation that would block the White House from creating the panel. This is maybe the most conspicuous symptom of a disease of climate denial that has infected the Republican Party and the hard right Schumer said ata Capitol Hill news conference. The science is largely settled on climate change and the threats it poses the panel. But the public relations war over how to address it is heating up as both sides navigate an issue expected to be a top issue in the 2020 election. Democrats who retook the House following the 2018 midterm election have been holding numerous hearings on the crisis. Republicans in turn have accused Democrats of trying to use climate change to impose a leftist agenda that would ruin the economy. In early Februaryprogressive Democrats unveiled their Green New Deal to remake the American economy into a social justice model focused on clean energy. But moderate Democrats have distanced themselves from the broadly worded plan that also calls for free housing health care and higher education for all Americans preferring only to endorse the portions that directly address climate change. Related 250 dead 91 billion in damages 2018 was a catastrophic year for U.S. weather 4th warmest for globe Related Green New Deal Why the GOP secretly likes Democrats' climate change plan Related Climate combat Democrats say Pentagon puts troops at risk by downplaying global warming Trump has touted environmental deregulation and his abandonment of Obama era steps to confront climate change as pillars of his America First economic agenda that has helped spur growth and lift the financial markets. But moderate Republicans are urging their party to stop challenging the science and starts confronting the problem of higher temperatures worsening natural disasters and rising sea levels. This is like a call to arms. Lets have conservatives have a discussion instead of being in denial that this is a problem former Ohio GOP Gov. John Kasich who ran against Trump in 2016 is expected to say at a speech Tuesday at the University of British Columbia. You cant just be a science denier. The White House would not confirm reports on the panel. Asked about the formation of the panel a National Security Council representative said the administration wants to ensure that decisions are fully informed and based on the most accurate and relevant information available. John Kerry who served as President Barack Obama's secretary of State wrote in a Washington Post column Tuesday that Trump should abandon the effort to discredit the science. As we careen toward irreversible environmental tipping points we have no time to waste debating alternative facts only to invest years more reestablishing trust in the real ones Kerry wrote. No panel 10 years from now can put the ice sheets back together or hold back rising tides. During Tuesday's hearingNASAEarth Science Division Director Michael Freilich was asked about the scientific integrity of the administration's most recent climate assessment released in November which White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders described as not based on facts. The report is a comprehensive scientificallyrigorouslyanalysisand assessmentif the availableinformationprimarily from the U.S. government Freilich said. We have made measurements of manyclimate indicators and many of the Earth's systems and it is clear that the climate is changing. David Doniger a climate change expert with the Natural Resources Defense Council said he was notworried about the administration's efforts to discredit the science given the preponderance of evidence. It just seems so late in the day he said. It's no longer a future hypothetical it's real. And to think that you're going to be able to stave offpublic concerns and public demand for action by ... writing a denial report seems too late.	True	True	True	True	True
G7 energy ministers have failed to agree a statement on climate change this afternoonbecause of 'US reservations' it has emerged. Top officials from the Group of Seven industrial nations gathered in Rome Italy today amid growing concerns over the US administration's moves to unravel policies aimed at stalling global warming. Environmental activists fear US President Donald Trumpis dismantling Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan which aimed at reducing carbon pollution from power plants. Greenpeace was holding a sit in outside Monday's meeting calling on officials to maintain their commitments to reduce greenhouse gases under the 2015 Paris Agreement. However the US 'reserved its position' on the text about commitments made by G7 countries under the Paris accord said Carlo Calenda the Italian minister for economic development who chaired the meeting in Rome. The ministers' agenda had called for discussion of energy security policies to move away from coal natural gas routes and supply sustainable development of electricity sources alternative fuel scenarios and energy access and investments in Africa. Lacking unanimity Italy which currently presides the Group of Seven decided against proposing the joint statement Calenda said. The Paris Agreement endorsed by members of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC is a bedrock of international action against man made global warming. It vows to cap warming to 'well below' two degrees Celsius 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit compared to late 19th century levels an effort that scientists say will require massive cuts in carbon emissions from coal and other fossil fuels. It also pledges to provide hundreds of billions of dollars in aid for poor countries badly exposed to drought flood rising seas and other climate impacts. In March President Donald Trump signed an executive order rolling back some of the previous Democratic administration's policies on carbon emissions and climate change. Experts have said his plan which eases emissions limits for coal fired power plants and scraps more stringent vehicle pollution standards almost guarantees that the US will fail to meet its commitments under the Paris Agreement. Trump has also said he does not intend to honour promises made by the administration of his predecessor Barack Obama to provide financial aid under the Paris accord. However Trump's team is also deeply divided on whether to withdraw from the pact according to US media reports. On March 30 the White House said a decision on whether to withdraw would be made ahead of the G7 summit in Italy in late May. Under Obama the United States the second biggest carbon polluter provided critical impetus for the Paris deal by concluding a precursor deal with China the number one emitter. The Group of Seven gathering the biggest western democracies comprises Britain Canada France Germany Italy Japan and the United States.	True	False	False	True	False
He recently posed for a GQ magazine photo shoot with a fly fishing rod in front of snow capped Montana peaks. He rode a horse named Tonto down the National Mall to his first day of work at the Interior Department. And earlier this month he donned a National Park Service uniform to greet park goers at the entrance of the Grand Canyon. Montana born interior secretary Ryan Zinke who meets with President Trump on Friday morning meticulously crafts his image as wilderness loving western cowboy and sportsman. But nine months into his job at the Department of the Interior the federal agency that oversees most public lands and natural resources the act is wearing thin with environmentalists and outdoors enthusiasts who say his early moves demonstrate strong allegiance to the oil gas and other extractive industries seeking access to some of Americas most spectacular protected landscapes. He has reversed an Obama era ban on coal mining on public lands and proposed changes that would shrink the borders of four national monuments set aside by previous presidents. His agency has taken early steps to open the door to oil exploration in Alaskas Arctic National Wildlife Refuge one of the most symbolic and fiercely protected sites of the American environmental movement. Hes announced plans to repeal an important fracking safety rule and loosened safety guidelines for underwater drilling both major shifts away from Obama era environmental protection regulations. Earlier this week his agency set off a new firestorm of criticism by announcing that entrance fees for some of Americas most popular national parks will increase substantially next year. To make it cheaper for coal companies to strip mine in watersheds and make it more expensive for families to visit Yosemite is a perversion of American values said Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club. I think the secretary is a fraud. Meanwhile Zinke is also coming under scrutiny for other reasons including his use of private and military jets. According to Politico the secretary spent more than 12000 on a private jet to his home state of Montana and took a private plane to the US Virgin Islands. Zinke who declined to be interviewed for this story called the travel controversy a little BS in a public appearance. Most recently lawmakers from both parties in the mainland US and Puerto Rico have called for an investigation into how a tiny energy company in Zinkes hometown of Whitefish Montana won a major contract to rebuild power lines in hurricane ravaged Puerto Rico. The interior department has denied that Zinke played a role in the contract award. The interior department is in charge of the management and conservation of most federal lands and natural resources and it includes important divisions such as the National Park Service the Bureau of Land Management and the Bureau of Indian Affairs. As such the agency is often the arbiter between oil gas and mining companies seeking access to valuable resources embedded in public lands and environmentalists seeking to protect the same lands for biodiversity wildlife and recreation. Zinke has reshaped the department filling top political posts with former executives and lobbyist for the extractive industries. Deputy interior secretary David Bernhardt for example is a former lobbyist for the oil and gas industry. According to a report by the Western Values Project a progressive organization at least 21 of Zinkes political appointees have backgrounds tied to extractive industries. He sold himself as a Theodore Roosevelt Republican. That means wise use said Land Tawney president of Backcountry Hunters and Anglers a national conservation group headquartered in Montana. More and more sportsmen are waking up to whats going on. Since he took over the department Zinke has also resurrected an arcane military ritual requiring staff to hoist the department flag above the building whenever he enters. Zinke the son of a plumber and a realtor grew up in Whitefish a ski town of 4000 people in northwestern Montana. The6ft 4in secretary is a former high school and college football hero and a retired Navy Seal. Zinke made his name politically as a moderate Republican in Montanas legislature and easily won his first run for Congress in 2014 by a margin of 15 points. He repeated that success two years later despite questions about whether he actually lived in Montana and earlier suggestions that he failed to rise in the ranks of the Navy because of travel spending improprieties. Given his moderate politics in his home state many are scratching their heads over his hardline turn. Observers says hes not ideologically driven like Scott Pruitt the Environmental Protection Agency administrator who has set clear focused sights on dismantling environmental regulations in the United States for the benefit of industry. At his confirmation hearing Zinke said he was concerned about climate change and he regularly declares his love for public lands. Gloria Flora a former US Forest Service manager in Montana and prominent conservationist believes Zinke is fairly easy to explain in the context of political tribalism of the Trump era. Hes a Montanan. Hes on the Trump team. Hes doing Trump politics in every place but Montana she said. When its not personal then you revert to what your team has been saying and the values your team has. It is apparent Zinke wants to cultivate a folksy persona for the public but he doesnt want difficult interactions with that public. Earlier this month when he put on a park workers uniform to greet park goers at the entrance of the Grand Canyon a visitor questioned him on his proposal for national monuments. Zinke shut the man down with a smile and no answers. Whether the Trump administration succeeds in changing the shape of Americas public lands could depend on Zinke. For now his early moves and those potential changes appear to have galvanized a thriving opposition uncharmed by his cowboy style.	False	True	True	True	True
flickr Tim Evanson Good news these days is hard to find. So when a vote to overturn a relatively obscure rule governing oil and gas drilling on public lands failed green groups were understandably jubilant. Fifty one senators decided to put the best interests of taxpayers and the environment first and narrowly saved a rule to limit methane emissions. This means that instead of wasting hundreds of millions of dollars worth of natural gas methane is its primary component companies will capture and sell it. Because companies drilling on public land pay royalties on the oil and gas sold this means the public will receive tens of millions of dollars in revenue from gas thats currently burned or left to leak out and pollute the atmosphere. This means more money in our coffers and less greenhouse gas in our atmosphere. But lost in the post vote beltway analysis is the fact that this is also a big win for national security. While thats not the most apparent result of the vote its one that should resonate with the Republicans who otherwise champion the military but bristle at environmental protections. Thats because the rule puts otherwise wasted methane to use boosting our energy security and reducing our dependence on foreign sources of energy. Since natural gas is sold globally and Russia is a major exporter boosting US production like this rule does cuts into Russias share of the market. The more we produce the less our European allies have to rely on Russian gas for their power supply. By making our natural gas production more efficient this rule also lessens our reliance on even less friendly fossil fuel exporters including countries to which we all too often send American soldiers. By producing energy in the United States and limiting pollution were making the world safer. Natural gas is not exactly beloved by the environmental community but it can take much of the credit for reducing the use of coal which is much dirtier and more harmful. So while some may say that Obamas environmental rules constituted a War on Coal in reality it was the cheap and plentiful supply of natural gas that put coal out of business. Ultimately well need to transition from natural gas to renewable and zero carbon energies like solar wind and next generation nuclear power if we want to maintain low cost energy and a safe and secure climate. Even with protections in place gas remains a major source of greenhouse gas emissions which cause plenty of problems. As a just published report from the intelligence community details climate change is a major military issue acting as a threat multiplier which creates the conditions and food scarcity for example breed instability and conflict. Extreme weather events made worse by climate change disrupt local communities and weaken the civic institutions that act as a bulwark against terrorists and extremism. The report also notes that the ecological damage done by climate change has human impacts. Communities that could once comfortably live off the land are forced out of the fields and forests and into urban areas where tensions run high and food supplies low. No one is saying that reducing methane leaks from gas drilling will prevent the next major conflict or humanitarian crisis. But with a problem as big as climate change and as multifaceted as national security every step is worthwhile. The better we protect our environment the better we can protect people. Making sure companies capture and sell the gas drilled on public lands ensures that the American taxpayers get the biggest return possible for leasing that land. For anyone growing cynical watching beltway politics Wednesdays victory on the methane rule was a rare and welcome reminder that common sense can still win out over the deep pockets of the oil and gas lobby. The vote was a win for taxpayers a win for the environment a win for national security and a win for democracy.	True	False	False	True	False
After months of waging a public and at times bloody battle with protesters bivouacked outside its construction site in North Dakota law enforcement officers razed the encampment and arrested the holdouts. Meanwhile roughly 1700 miles east the company completed the final edits requested by regulators to its application to start building the Rover natural gas pipeline a 4.2 billion project through Ohio. That project had sailed through the permitting process and these markups would be its last. Project manager Buffy Thomason wanted to extend thanks to the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency so she emailed the firms lobbyist in the state Art Arnold that evening. Arnold forwarded the message to Laura Factor the agencys assistant director less than an hour later. In the same email Arnold called the OEPA staff among if not the most honest and helpful people Ive encountered. OEPA Director Craig Butler described Arnold and Factor as good friends in a separate exchange with an agency colleague. Theyve done their jobs without beating us up in the process Arnold added. Theyve offered options when we were stuck. Theyve pointed us in the right direction so we could build the pipeline and stay within their good graces. But just a few months after those emails were sent Energy Transfer Partners and the state officials became embroiled in a vicious public fight over a massive drilling fluid spill and construction pollution. The company has flagrantly challenged the OEPAs authority infuriating the agency and eliciting a rare public investigation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or FERC the federal agency that regulates interstate electricity and natural gas operations. The dispute offers a cautionary tale in what one critic described as regulatory capture of a state agency by a company with deep ties to the Trump administration and a reputation as an environmental pariah unafraid to deploy scorched earth tactics against its opponents. The moves by Energy Transfer Partners further fuel fears of whats to come amid proposed steep cuts to the EPAs budget and a brazen campaign by U.S. Administrator Scott Pruitt to cozy up to fossil fuel interests. Energy Transfer Partners problems in Ohio began shortly after construction began on Rover in March. Heavy rains poured as workers built a stretch of the pipeline over flat farmlands and workers began dumping excess sediment laden water onto fields and into streams according to citations from the OEPA. Then in April the company accidentally leaked onto Ohio wetlands more than 2 million gallons of fluid used to lubricate the machines that bore pathways for underground pipes through a process known as horizontal directional drilling. The spill suffocated anything that lived in an area the size of nearly nine football fields under a foot or more of a slurry of nontoxic bentonite clay and water the agency said. On May 5 the OEPA ordered the company to submit a plan to address future spills restore the wetlands and apply for stormwater permitting. It also fined the firm 431000. In a sharp break from the charm it applied during the application process Energy Transfer Partners rejected the agencys demands insisting that because the pipeline crossed state boundaries the OEPA lacked the authority to make those orders. This kind of pushback were getting from Rover that says You have absolutely no state authority this is all a FERC issue and the tenor and tone theyve taken to interact with us doesnt happen often Butler said. This very negative response that weve gotten from Rover up until now and very recently is pretty uncharacteristic. On May 10 FERC stepped in to back up the state EPA halting construction at eight sites where Energy Transfer Partners had yet to begin boring the pipe. FERCs order has given environmental groups like the Sierra Club temporary reprieve from their own legal effort to block a pipeline they see as fueling climate change and endangering the environment in the state one of the proposed construction sites includes the Captina Creek the only cold water stream in Ohio with the right conditions for the endangered hellbender salamander to breed. But FERC allowed Energy Transfer Partners to continue work at the 22 other locations including the site of the largest spill. The company sent teams to vacuum up the drilling sludge from the wetlands and deposit it in two nearby quarries. Things took another turn on May 26 when the OEPA discovered traces of diesel in the samples collected from the spill site. Using diesel in the drilling fluids violated the permit FERC had granted forcing regulators to reclassify the site as an industrial accident. On June 1 FERC opened an investigation into the incident. On July 7 the OEPA once again sent a letter listing demands to Energy Transfer Partners. The letter reiterated orders made about two months earlier to apply for stormwater permits pay mounting fines nearing 1 million and submit a plan to restore the wetlands. The agency also directed the company to excavate the diesel contaminated slurry from the quarries dispose of it at solid waste landfills and install groundwater monitoring around the area to ensure that private wells werent affected. The company agreed only after FERC backed up the OEPA on the demands five days later. The OEPA said it will review Energy Transfer Partners submissions by next week to determine if its plans are in compliance. The OEPA said it remains committed to supporting oil and gas development in the state. StillButler the agencys director said Energy Transfer Partners received no preferential treatment during the application process despite what seemed like an amicable relationship at the start of the construction process. At the highest level this does not diminish our overall posture in terms of trying to support oil and gas development in the state including the development of pipeline networks he said. Weve got several of these large pipelines. Our only concern is while were supporting they at least have to follow the rules.	False	False	False	True	True
After Florida was hit by the devastating Hurricane Michael this week Sen. Marco Rubio R FL made it clear he would rather lie about climate change whichmakes these storms worse than commit to doing anything to stop it. On Sunday mornings edition of CNNs State of the Union host Jake Tapper pressed Rubio about the recent United Nations report on climate change which predicts global catastrophe if carbon emissions are not cut dramatically in the next 12 years. Do you believe climate change is at least in part man made? Tapper asked. Rubio said that while scientists agree that human behavior is contributing to climate change Icant tell you what percentage of that is due to human activity. He also claimed that many scientists would debate the percentage of what is attributable to man versus normal fluctuations. No matter what we do with laws lets say we went to all solar panels and did all that stuff which is not realistic this trend of sea level rise would still continue Rubio said. Instead of clean energy or reducing emissions Rubio said he is focused on strategies to mitigate those factors that are going be in place no matter what happens with our energy policy. But he added Im also not going to destroy our economy. Almost every word out of Rubios mouth was either a lie or a shameful dodge. There is overwhelming scientific consensusincluding from the United States government that human activity is the main driver of climate change. There is no debate among scientists about this. Human society is overwhelmingly responsible for our warming planet. Thats why it makes no sense to quibble as Rubio does about exactly what percentage of climate change is caused by humans. No matter what the answer is most or all of it. And contrary to Rubios assertions theUnited NationsIntergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC report says that drastic reductions in carbon emissions could in fact prevent the most catastrophic effects of climate change. The report says that in order to avoid irreversible global warming Global net human caused emissions of carbon dioxide CO2 would need to fall by about 45 percent from 2010 levels by 2030 reaching net zero around 2050. Reducing our carbon emissions will also reduce the effects of climate change. Its as simple as that. But Rubio apparently wants to throw up his hands and claim that since rising seas will drown Florida no matter what all we can really do is strengthen levies or lift up roads and buildings. Rubio also seems to think that reducing carbon emissions would do more to destroy our economy than say allowing 1 million Florida homes to flood by the end of this century. Unfortunately Republicans like Rubio have joined Trump in ignoring science and doing everything they can to keep pumping as much carbon into the atmosphere as they can get away with. Americans deserve leaders who will do everything they can to prevent the catastrophic effects of climate change instead of waffling and lying about it like Rubio. Published with permission of The American Independent.	True	False	False	True	True
But the Massachusetts senators campaign is ramping up its focus on the climate crisis ahead of Thursday nights debate in Los Angeles where wildfires forced more than 40000 to flee their homes less than two months ago. Last week Warren unveiled her Blue New Deal the first comprehensive campaign proposal to revitalize coastal economies by fortifying ports spurring new markets for seafood and completely overhauling the offshore energy industry. On Wednesday she published an op ed outlining how shed target fossil fuel companies and reverse President Donald Trumps assault on environmental regulations during her first 100 days in the White House. Then on Thursday the campaign announced an endorsement from Rhiana Gunn Wright the policy researcher who helped write the Green New Deal resolution Warren co sponsored in the Senate in February. There is no dealing with climate change unless we deal with corruption Gunn Wright said in a video set to be released Thursday afternoon. Every time I read a Warren climate plan I am confident that it can take us to a Green New Deal because I see her thinking about How do we use all the levers of government? The endorsement comes as Warren is sliding in national polls which commentators have largely attributed to her apparent wobbling on Medicare for All. The loss of her brief front runner status this fall is widely seen as aiding the surge of Sen. Bernie Sanders I Vt. on her left and South Bend Indiana Mayor Pete Buttigieg on her right. Yet Warrens shift on climate could position her to be more competitive against Sanders who has made his own push on the issue over the past month and picked up major endorsements from youth activists. Warren and Sanders have taken different approaches on climate. Warren has put out more than half a dozen individual plans to spend a combined 3 trillion on solving specific issues like spurring a green manufacturing boom and transitioning the military off fossil fuels. Sanders by contrast has released a 16.3 trillion megaproposal for a Green New Deal that includes everything from creating a public option for electricity to spending nearly 15 billion to encourage worker owned grocery stores. Yet Warren trails Sanders only slightly on climate according to green groups rankings. Greenpeace graded her an A and Sanders an A. On a scale of 200 the Sunrise Movement the group that pushed the Green New Deal into the mainstream scored Warren at 168 and Sanders at 183. 350 Action gave both candidates three thumbs up. Sanders has picked up endorsements from the teen led U.S. Youth Climate Strike and 18 year old activist Jamie Margolin. Hes also backed by Reps. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. and Ilhan Omar D Minn. the star first term Democrats who proposed the first two major pieces of Green New Deal legislation last month. Sanders sponsored the Senate version of Ocasio Cortezs Green New Deal for Public Housing bill last month. But the starkest contrast on the issue is between the two progressive contenders and their moderate rivals former Vice President Joe Biden and Buttigieg. Bidens campaign is stacked with gas industry allies. Buttigiegs climate adviser David Victor has been called a fossil fuel shill for taking research funding from an oil giant and deflecting blame from the industry. Its unclear how much average voters care about a candidates green credentials when the ability to defeat Trump who is widely criticized as a climate change denier is a foremost concern for Democrats and independents who lean left. Climate was the No. 2 concern after health care for Iowa caucusgoers in a Monmouth University survey from April. In California nearly half of Democratic primary voters said climate should be the top issue for the next president according to a Los Angeles Times poll published this month. The trend bears out nationally. About 38 of registered voters favored a Green New Deal proposal that spends upward of 10 trillion slashing climate changing emissions by 2030 according to an August nationwide survey commissioned by the left leaning think tank Data for Progress. That compared to 32.5 who preferred a 1.7 trillion plan to zero out emissions by 2050 more in line with what Biden proposed.	False	False	False	False	False
Environmentalists lamenting that a green wave didnt wash over Congress can find a glimmer of hope in the results of several key governor races. As of Wednesday it looks like Democrats committed to fighting climate change gained several key governorships that could accelerate local and national progress in clean energy. Democrat Stephen Sisolak won in Nevada Democrat Janet Mills won in Maine and Democrat Michelle Lujan Grisham won in New Mexico. In the past two years these states all passed renewable energy bills through their legislatures that were vetoed by Republican governors. But with these Democrats now heading into the governors mansions its very likely that these states will take another run at clean energy legislation. Sisolak for example campaigned on his support Question 6 one of the few state clean energy ballot initiatives that passed on Tuesday. This is a ballot measure that commits Nevada to getting 50 percent of its energy from renewable sources by 2030. In fact as governor I would like to get us on the road to 100 percent Sisolak said in a campaign ad. Meanwhile Millss platform included cutting Maines greenhouse gas emissions 80 percent by 2030. And Grisham advocated new rules to regulate methane a potent greenhouse gas and has a long voting record in the House as a representative of New Mexico in favor of bills to address climate change. Democrats flipped executive offices in other states as well. Democrat Tony Evers Wisconsins governor elect defeated incumbent Scott Walker on a platform that included a pledge to join 17 other governors committed to the goals of the Paris climate agreement. These wins are critical because governors have executive authority that allows them to dictate some state energy priorities. They also play a huge role in how federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act are enforced. We saw this play out in North Carolina after the last election. The state passed a law in 2012 preventing the government from even considering the latest climate change science in its planning. Then Democrat Roy Cooper was elected and pulled an aggressive U turn going as far as to sign an executive order committing the state to cutting its greenhouse gas emissions 40 percent below 2005 levels by 2025. In 38 states governors also appoint utility commissioners who shape investment in energy infrastructure and can help decide whether to keep an aging coal plant online or to rapidly deploy renewables. That gives states like Nevada another lever to drive climate policies. Legislatures in several states Maine Colorado New Hampshire Connecticut New York Minnesota also saw at least one chamber flip in favor of Democrats. In 13 states Democrats now control the governorship along with upper and lower legislative chambers. This would allow them to pass aggressive renewable portfolio standards and greenhouse gas targets. But other governors races did not go as well one high profile candidate who made climate change a key part of his platforms Democratic Florida gubernatorial contender Andrew Gillum lost. As for national level candidates several House members who deny climate change like California Republican Devin Nunes held on to their seats. And Carlos Curbelo a House Republican who proposed a carbon tax was outflanked by his Democratic opponent Debbie Mucarsel Powell. Curbelo also chaired the House Climate Solutions Caucus. The 90 member group counted 45 Republicans as members but just 24 of them will return in January. Since the caucus hadnt come up with many concrete solutions yet its unclear what it will do going forward. Several state clean energy and environmental ballot initiatives were also thwarted at the polls. Measures like Colorados anti fracking Proposition 112 and Washington states Initiative 1631 to price carbon emissions were defeated in part due to a firehose of money being unleashed by fossil fuel interests. What that means is that the bulk of climate change and energy advances were going to see in the United States over the next two years will come up through state legislatures and governors offices. But dont expect too much from a divided Congress and a president who is lackadaisical about whether climate change is even a problem.	True	False	False	True	True
Editors note Radley Horton is a professor at Columbia Universitys Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory where he studies climate extremes impacts and adaptation. He spoke with NewsHour economics correspondent Paul Solman for Thursdays Making Sene segment on flood insurance. The following excerpt of their interview has been edited for length and clarity. Paul Solman How certain are we or can we be that these storms and the flooding associated with them is a function of climate change? Radley Horton There are many components to these storms. And depending on what part were talking about the certainty differs. There are some aspects that are really a sure thing. For example we know that sea levels are rising. We know thats going to continue. And even if storms dont change at all just by virtue of raising that baseline raising that floor were going to see more frequent and more severe coastal flooding. But when we look at some of the really fundamental aspects of a storm itself theres more uncertainty. The balance of evidence suggests that the strongest storms will become stronger with stronger winds more storm surge as the planet warms and as the upper oceans warm. But we cant say its a sure thing. PS What about the larger cycles of the planet? Dont they override or mightnt they override the kinds of things we as human beings are doing in the short term? RH There are many things that can impact the climate for sure. But right now during this era that were living in human activities and the burning of fossil fuels is by far the most powerful influence. Just since the start of the industrial revolution weve increased the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by about 40 percent. Its already caused sea levels to rise close to a foot in many places along the U.S. coast. So thats increasing the risk of these types of storms. WATCH Less than half of Florida homeowners have flood insurance PS Cant we mitigate the effects of flooding? I mean thats what theyre doing raising houses all over the coastline in the United States and countries like Holland. RH The types of mitigation efforts youre talking about are critical. This is what we often hear referred to as resilience or adapting to a changing climate. And that has to be a key component of all strategies. We absolutely do need to strengthen that infrastructure whether its elevating buildings green infrastructure that can capture some of these excess water. We need those strategies. But you start to wonder at what point have things changed too much for us to be able to adapt to? For example if you look at parts of South Florida as sea levels rise as the water table rises no matter how much money you put into trying to build sea walls that water is just going to make its way up like Swiss cheese through some of that limestone. You cant hold the water back. PS So what would you advise somebody who lives in a floodplain? Should they just get out? Because many cant economically right? Or do they jack up their houses? Is that the best approach? RH If you live in a flood zone certainly you should be thinking about climate change. Thats one of the dimensions. But there are a lot of other factors that impact vulnerability as well. When people were assessing the risk originally and defining the flood zones they made estimates based on 10 20 years of rainfall data. Thats an insufficiently long sample to really estimate the true one in a hundred year risk. Another concern is that since that home was built there may have been changes in development in surrounding areas. If you look at what happened in Houston recently so much of the natural area had been covered up with pavement. That changes the flood risk. But when it comes to the climate change piece and if were talking about homes that are in coastal zones sea level rise is a game changer. PS When the federal government redraws a map in a place like Pequannock New Jersey and includes more and more houses hundreds more houses in the floodplain is the government potentially overreacting? RH The government is trying to update using the latest available information. More years of weather data are now available and thereve been changes in the land use in some of these regions as well that impact the path that that water takes. PS Has flood insurance basically induced people to take risks that they shouldnt be taking? RH Quite possibly. Thats why we need a much deeper discussion both about those properties that currently are insured and about uninsured properties and about properties that as the climate changes are going to be moving into newly defined flood zones. In the future we could see property values fall not because water touches or doesnt touch some of these homes but because of systemic risk the inability of insurance to cover all these assets or investors finally realizing that a lot of critical infrastructure isnt going to be fundable.	True	True	False	True	True
PARRISH Ala. AP A stinking trainload of human waste from New York City is stranded in a tiny Alabama town spreading a stench like a giant backed up toilet and the poop train is just the latest example of the South being used as a dumping ground for other states waste. In Parrish Alabama population 982 the sludge hauling train cars have sat idle near the little league ball fields for more than two months Mayor Heather Hall said. The smell is unbearable especially around dusk after the atmosphere has become heated she said. Oh my goodness its just a nightmare here she said. It smells like rotting corpses or carcasses. It smells like death. All kinds of waste have been dumped in Georgia Alabama and other Southern states in recent years including toxic coal ash from power plants around the nation. In South Carolina a plan to store radioactive nuclear waste in a rural area prompted complaints that the state was being turned into a nuclear dump. In Parrish townspeople are considering rescheduling childrens softball games or playing at fields in other communities to escape the stink. Sherleen Pike who lives about a half mile from the railroad track said she sometimes dabs peppermint oil under her nose because the smell is so bad. Would New York City like for us to send all our poop up there forever? she said. They dont want to dump it in their rivers but I think each state should take care of their own waste. Alabamas inexpensive land and permissive zoning laws and a federal ban on dumping New Yorkers excrement in the ocean got the poop train chugging experts say. Nelson Brooke of the environmental group Black Warrior Riverkeeper describes Alabama as kind of an open door rubber stamp permitting place for landfill operators. Its easy for them to zip into a rural or poor community and set up shop and start making a ton of cash he said. The poop trains cargo is bound for the Big Sky landfill about 20 miles 30 kilometers east of Parrish. The landfill has been accepting the New York sewage sludge since early 2017. Previously it was transferred from trains to trucks in nearby West Jefferson but officials there obtained an injunction to keep the sludge out of their town. The sludge smells of dead rotting animals as well as human waste West Jeffersons attorney said in a lawsuit against Big Sky Environmental LLC. It also caused the community to become infested with flies the complaint states. After West Jefferson went to court the train stopped in late January in Parrish which lacks the zoning regulations to block the train cars. Its sat there ever since. Were probably going to look at creating some simple zoning laws for the town of Parrish so we can be sure something like this does not happen again the Parrish mayor said. Hall said shes optimistic the sludge will all be trucked to the landfill soon. New York City has discontinued shipping it to Alabama for the time being said Eric Timbers a city spokesman. Its waste recovered from the sewage treatment process and often called biosolids has been sent out of state partly because the federal government in the late 1980s banned disposal in the Atlantic Ocean. In an earlier trash saga a barge laden with 3186 tons 2890 metric tons of non toxic paper and commercial garbage from Long Island and New York City wandered the ocean for months in 1987 seeking a place to dump it after plans by a private developer to turn it into methane gas in North Carolina fell through. It was turned away by North Carolina Alabama Mississippi Louisiana Texas Florida Mexico Belize and the Bahamas. Brookes Black Warrior Riverkeeper group last year opposed continued permits for the Big Sky landfill. Rural parts of Alabama are prime targets for landfills that accept out of state waste it argued meaning that Alabama was becoming a dumping ground for the rest of the nation. Big Sky officials did not return multiple email and phone messages from The Associated Press seeking comment. Nationally the waste and recycling industry generates more than 93 billion in gross revenue annually said Brandon Wright a spokesman for the National Waste Recycling Association. Wright said there are many reasons waste is sometimes transported out of state. There might not be enough landfill space nearby and the waste has to go somewhere so it gets transported out of state he said. Alabama and other Southern states have a long history accepting waste from around the U.S. A former state attorney general once described a giant west Alabama landfill as Americas Pay Toilet. It was among the nations largest hazardous waste dumps when it opened in 1977. At its peak the landfill took in nearly 800000 tons 72570 metric tons of hazardous waste annually. Plans to dump coal ash in Southern states have been particularly contentious. Each year U.S. coal plants produce about 100 million tons 90 metric tons of coal ash and other waste more than 4 million tons of it wound up in an Alabama landfill following a 2008 spill in Tennessee. In Parrish the mayor hopes the material in the train cars is removed before the weather warms up. Were moving into the summer and the summer in the South is not forgiving when it comes to stuff like this she said.	False	False	False	True	False
Some of the regular Americans who are paying the price for Scott Pruitts leadership were in Washington DC this week and I had the honor of spending the day with them and hearing their stories. As we all know Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt headed to Capitol Hill Thursday where he was grilled by members of Congress on his many ethical scandals that have been making headlines for weeks. Just two days earlier people from across the US came to Washington to testify at EPAs lone public hearing on Pruitts proposed rollbacks of protections from toxic coal ash. Their stories of coal ash contamination were heartbreaking a North Carolina town where neighbors keep getting sick a community on the Navajo Nation where people drive 15 miles to haul water for livestock. The EPA had finally put very modest coal ash safeguards in place for these communities in 2015 and now Scott Pruitt is trying to take them away. As I told EPA in my testimony Families are looking to EPA to solve the coal ash problem not abandon them. If you dont defend these standards the Sierra Club and our allies will. One small town Alabama mayor summed up the thoughts of everyone in the room when he faced EPA representatives a simply said What are you doing? Have you lost your mind? Pruitts maneuver to weaken coal ash standards has sparked grassroots outrage from red states and blue states. He is handing out yet another favor to the corporate polluters whove been and marching orders since he took over the EPA. Pruitt is weakening the protections so that millionaire utility executives dont have to pay for affordable common sense fixes to Americas mounting coal ash problem. As I heard from scientists and the many families affected who spoke at the hearing earlier this week coal ash is the primary solid waste product of coal fired power plants and it contains some of the most dangerous toxic chemicals on earth like arsenic lead mercury and chromium. The toxins raise the risk for cancer heart disease and stroke and can inflict permanent brain damage on children. Its estimated that 1.5 million children live near the coal ash storage sites which are only getting larger with each ton of coal burned. In places like and on the weve seen the tragedies that coal ash spills and leaks can cause by devastating communities contaminating water and sending people to the hospital. In 2015 after years of scientific research and public comments the EPA finalized a set of basic clean water protections from coal ash that were cheap and easy for utilities to implement. These standards required coal plant owners to do things like line new coal ash dump sites with strong waterproof materials to make sure the dangerous contents of coal ash did not leach into soil and contaminate groundwater. They also provided local communities with online tools to monitor their groundwater to make sure that toxic heavy metals from nearby coal ash waste sites were not contaminating the water they used for farming drinking and cooking. In a cruel irony Pruitt announced these rollbacks the day after EPA reporting under the new standard revealed dangerous coal ash pollution in more than 70 sites around the country. Everyone deserves clean water free from toxic coal ash and the profits of utility executives should never be held in higher regard than the health of local communities.. After nearly a year in his position Pruitt has seemed more concerned with pushing the agenda of wealthy coal executives rather than doing his job to protect the environment and the health of the people who are suffering from the pollution created by coal plants. Nothing better illustrates this than the sweetheart deal Pruitt received from the wife of a dirty energy lobbyist who had business before the EPA . For a mere 50 a night he stayed in a plush multi million dollar condo near the United States Capitol. By day Pruitt was touting his rollback efforts to make it easier for energy companies and utilities to save money by polluting and by night he slept peacefully in a bed owned by someone who energy companies and utilities hire to do their bidding on Capitol Hill. As each day goes by and we find out more about Pruitts conflicts of interests and revelations about his failed judgement however its important to remember that his failures have real world impacts on the health of the people he is supposed to be protecting. Real families will be hurt because of his decision to roll back the clean water protections against coal ash people who cant offer him sweetheart deals on luxury housing. TAKE ACTION Stop the repeal of coal ash safeguards!	False	False	False	False	True
Here's the issue Pruitt told CNN in a phone interview. To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced. He continued What we need to focus on is access to clean water addressing these areas of superfund activities that may cause an attack on water these issues of access to fuel. ... Those are things so important to citizens of Florida right now and to discuss the cause and effect of these storms there's the... place and time to do that it's not now. President Donald Trump has previously called climate change a hoax and Pruitt has led a push to roll back EPA regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions. Hurricane Irma is hammering a string of northeast Caribbean islands and making its way toward a possible hit on Florida over the weekend. As the Category 5 storm heads toward the Florida coast experts have been clear about how global warming has contributed to the increased strength of hurricanes this season. Gradually warming temperatures in the Gulf of Mexico as much as 2 degrees Celsius above average could be a pressure cooker for key ingredients of a hurricane extreme winds rainfall and storm surge. Pruitt said that it's up to Congress to eventually address the issue but right now the EPA's focus is on providing assistance to those in need in Florida. Congress should address that at some point. And Congress hasn't he said. All I'm saying to you is to use time and effort to address it at this point is very very insensitive to this people in Florida. Pruitt said that the EPA is putting extra attention into monitoring 80 toxic waste sites otherwise known as superfund sites in the case that they affect the water in Florida. As waters recede in Houston attention turns to chemical facilities There's a multitude of these kinds of sites he said. We are working in advance with the owners of those sites to secure those sites ... to prevent leakage andor harm to citizens in the area. Pruitt also said that to speed up the delivery of fuel and other critical supplies he rescinded all weight and driver restrictions on its highways. Florida has also tried to improve gasoline supplies by getting an EPA waiver for certain regulations that would normally restrict the kind of fuels it can use. He added he's embedded staff in towns and cities in Florida so that they can make real time decisions for the hurricane. My focus has to be on ... these areas that I described he said. And with all respect really that's where I have to focus on. After Harvey 'we have to protect ourselves' After Harvey 'we have to protect ourselves'	True	True	True	True	False
President Trump Donald John TrumpJoe Kennedy says he's considering Senate run Biden tells supporters after flub 'I'm not going nuts' Seoul's relations with Pyongyang and Tokyo need a jolt of reality MORE on Monday touted his environmentalist credentials hours after skipping a Group of Seven G 7 summit meeting focused on climate oceans and biodiversity. At a closing press conference before departing the summit Trump was asked whether he still harbors skepticism about climate change. He did not directly answersaying heis an environmentalist but that he is unwilling to sacrifice the country's economic success to protect the environment. Im an environmentalist. A lot of people dont understand that Trump said citing his experience filing environmental impact statements for real estate developments. I think I know more about the environment than most people he added. I want clean air. I want clean water. I want a wealthy country. I want a spectacular country with jobs with pensions with so many things. And thats what were getting. At the same time its very important to me... we have to maintain this incredible place that weve all built Trump continued. The U.S. has become a much richer country. And thats a good thing not a bad thing. Because that wealth allows us to take care of people. Earlier Monday the president skipped a G 7 session focused on climate and sent another administration official in his place. The heads of government of the other six nations that comprise the G 7 were there. During the climate meeting leaders approved a 20 million aid package to help Brazil and other South American countries address fires engulfing the Amazon rainforest French President Emmanuel Macron Emmanuel Jean Michel MacronTrump says he's 'an environmentalist' after skipping G 7 climate meeting Trump says he'd meet with Iranians under 'right' circumstances Macron US France reached 'very good agreement' on digital tax MORE said. Trump has in the past characterized climate change as a hoax mocked the idea of global warming by citing winter storms and cast doubt on government reports warning about how the changing environment might adversely affect the economy. His administration has rolled backa number of environmental protections enacted by the Obama administration and Trump announced shortly after taking office that he would withdraw from the Paris climate agreement that seeks to combat global emissions. The president on Monday cited the expansion of energy exports under his administration and the opening of drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as ways he has made the country more prosperous. Im not going to lose that wealth he said. I'm not going to lose that on dreams. On windmills.	True	True	False	True	True
Over the course of seven hours the top ten Democratic candidates for president in 2020 committed to radical solutions to climate change a problem that assuming the worst case scenarios are true will result in our grandchildren being much richer than we are instead of muchmuch richer. Set aside for the moment the appalling wastefulness of devoting seven hours seven consecutive hours of prime time programming to the subject. Clearly CNN wanted to make a political statement about how important it thinks climate change ought to be in the election. Good. Given that the United States is the only country in the world that has reduced emissions over the past decade and a half while growing its economy and that the main reason is the growth of hydraulic fracturing fracking which Trump has supported and almost every Democratic candidate promises to ban the only choice is to vote for the Republicans. That is if youreally care about climate change. Otherwise youre just putting party before planet. That wasnt the point CNN wanted to make. Nor was it CNNs goal to expose the ignorance and extremism of the Democratic field. Yet that is exactly what happened. Given 40 minutes apiece the aspiring Democratic contenders showed that they are willing to de industrialize the U.S. economy put millions of people out of work and lower the standard of living for tens of millions more all for the sake of science they cannot explain and do not understand. It wasnt all the candidates fault. CNN kept making scientific claims that ranged from half truths to pure baloney. Again and again for instance moderators suggested that Hurricane Dorian was caused by climate change or a sign of things to come. It isnt. But give the network partial credit for noting that plans like the Green New Deal will hurt mining and agricultural communities. Some of the candidates barely seemed to care. 1. Taxing carbon pollution.Some called it a carbon fee others called it a carbon tax. Former U.S. Rep. Beto ORourke D TX was the only one offering a cap and trade system as an alternative. All believe that you should be paying more for fuel. None suggested making it revenue neutral say by lowering payroll taxes though South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg would redistribute the money to the poor. Learn from California thats not happening. 2. Banning fracking.With the possible exception of former vice president Joe Biden who agreed last month at the second debate that he would eliminate fracking and former HUD Secretary Julin Castro who would back bans at state and local levels all of the Democrats want to ban the one innovation that has made the greatest difference for our planet in the last twenty years powered the economic recovery and made us less dependent on the Mideast. 3. Ending oil and gas exploration and extraction on public lands. The Obama administration tried it too. Never mind that some public lands have been specifically set aside for oil and gas development. There seems to be little thought about the impact that would have on the U.S. economy on fuel prices and on national security. Nor is any credit given for industry advances in environmentally friendly technology except as a warrant for more regulation. 4. Banning nuclear energy. Perhaps with Nevada the fourth state in the 2020 primary contests in mind most of the candidates objected to nuclear energy because of challenges around nuclear waste storage. Only businessman Andrew Yang and Sen. Cory Booker D NJ offered defenses of nuclear power as a zero emissions alternative with Booker making the obvious argument if you believe we need to reduce emissions quickly nuclear is the only way. 5. Banning plastic straws discouraging meat eliminatingincandescent light bulbs.Sen. Kamala Harris D CA admitted that paper straws are useless but wants to ban the plastic ones anyway based on pseudoscience. Booker a vegansays you can eat what you want thanks! but the rest want you to find another source of protein. And the candidates mocked Trump for halting the imposition of energy efficient bulbs seemingly ignorant of health risks. The craziness didnt end there. Biden blamed climate change for the cancer and thegenocide in Darfur previously thought to be the fault of Arab militias slaughtering raping and displacing black African civilians. Buttigieg said he would explain climate change to folks in the heartland by telling them God thought greenhouse gases were a sin. Bernie Sanders suggested global population control encouraged by organizations that promote abortion abroad. They all want to rejoin the Paris Climate Accords none wants to submit them to the Senate for ratification but several want to eliminate or evade the filibuster to pass the Green New Deal the green socialist manifesto written by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D NY. No compromises on the road to utopia. And plenty new material for Trumps campaign ads. Send a receipt to Jeff Zucker and file a form with the FEC. This one will leave a mark. Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor at Large at Breitbart News. He earned an A.B. in Social Studies and Environmental Science and Public Policy from Harvard College and a J.D. from Harvard Law School. He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship. He is also the co author ofHow Trump Won The Inside Story of a Revolution which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at 	True	True	False	True	True
A total of 10 US national monuments are in the Trump administrations sights to be either resized or repurposed in order to allow activities such as mining logging and grazing within their borders. Environmental groups have vowed legal action to stymie any alterations to the protected areas. Here are the 10 national monuments identified for change by Ryan Zinke the secretary of the interior. Designated in December 2016 by Barack Obama Bears Ears national monument is a 1.35m acre expanse of mesas buttes and Native American archaeological sites that sprawls across south eastern Utah. Its many splendors include a series of stunning rock bridges as well as the aptly named Grand Gulch an intricate canyon system thick with thousand year old ruins. A whopping 1.9m acres south central Utahs Grand Staircase Escalante was set aside by Bill Clinton in 1996 and is the largest terrestrial national monument in the US. It contains a series of gigantic plateaus and cliffs the Grand Staircase as well as a string of deep gorges known as the Escalante River Canyons. The first national monument established solely to protect its rich biodiversity Clinton deemed the Cascade Siskiyou an ecological wonderland when he protected it at about 52000 acres in 2000. In his final week in office Obama responded to calls from local conservationists and scientists and expanded the monument adding approximately 48000 acres. Covering nearly 300000 acres of remote desert north east of Las Vegas the Gold Butte monument was created by Obama in December 2016. Its chiseled red sandstone towers canyons and mountains contain a treasure trove of rock art and are an important habitat for species such as the Mojave desert tortoise bighorn sheep and the mountain lion. Roxanne Quimby co founder of Burts Bees cosmetics and her foundation purchased tracts of land in the northern reaches of Maine with the purpose of creating a national park. When this plan was opposed by various state and federal politicians Obama stepped in to create a 87000 acre national monument dominated by mountains and lush forests. Another Obama creation the marine monument was designated in September 2016 and sits off the New England coast. The area was protected to safeguard an ecosystem of deep sea corals three species of whale and an endangered species of sea turtle the Kemps ridley. A huge monument spanning nearly 500000 acres and proclaimed in May 2014. There are several hundred known archaeological sites in this mountainous stretch of New Mexico including some of the earliest known native American settlements. In the 1960s US astronauts used the area to train for lunar missions. Declared by President George W Bush in 2009 and expanded by Obama in 2014 the monument covers 480000 square miles in marine areas to the south and west of Hawaii. The scattered reserve contains rare birds trees and grasses as well as largely untouched coral reefs. Found at an average elevation of 7000ft this New Mexico monument was created in 2013. The area is riddled with volcanic cones with the Rio Grande flowing through an 800ft gorge in the layers of volcanic basalt flows and ash. The monument has several archaeological sites and is considered a key wildlife corridor for migrating animals. The enormous 8.5m acre monument in the south Pacific was declared by Bush in January 2009. Rare petrels shearwaters and terns are found there as well as giant clams reef sharks and rose coloured corals. It is considered by the Fish Wildlife Service as the most important seabird habitat in the region.	True	True	False	True	True
As soon as Hurricanes Harvey and Irma made landfall in the U.S. scientists politicians and journalists began to discuss the role of climate change in natural disasters. Although a clear scientific consensus has emerged over the past decade that climate change influences hurricanes in the long run its effect upon any individual storm is unclear. Anyone trying to score political points after a natural disaster should take a deep breath and review the science first. As a meteorologist with access to the best weather forecast model data available I watched each hurricanes landfall with particular interest. Harvey and Irma broke the record 12 year major hurricane landfall drought on the U.S. coastline. Since Wilma in October 2005 31 major hurricanes had swirled in the North Atlantic but all failed to reach the U.S. with a Category 3 or higher intensity. Even as we worked to divine exactly where the hurricanes would land a media narrative began to form linking the devastating storms to climate change. Some found it ironic that states represented by climate deniers were being pummeled by hurricanes. Alarmists reveled in the irony that Houston home to petrochemical plants was flooded by Harvey while others gleefully reported that President Trumps Mar a Lago might be inundated by Irma. How to put these two hurricanes into proper context? An informative website from the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration synthesizes reams of research literature on the links between hurricanes and global warming. Over the next century climate models generally indicate fewer but stronger stormsbetween 2 and 11 greater average storm intensitywith substantially increased rain rates. Against the background of slow sea level rise explosive coastal population growth will overwhelmingly exacerbate any hurricanes damages. In the aggregate the global warming signal may just now be emerging out of our noisy observational records and we may not know certainly for several decades. These conclusions are hardly controversial in the climate science community. My own research cited in a recent Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report found that during the past half century tropical storms and hurricanes have not shown an upward trend in frequency or accumulated energy. Instead they remain naturally variable from year to year. The global prevalence of the most intense storms Category 4 and 5 has not shown a significant upward trend either. Historical observations of extreme cyclones in the 1980s especially in the Southern Hemisphere are in sore need of reanalysis. By focusing on whether climate change caused a hurricane journalists fail to appreciate the complexity of extreme weather events. While most details are still hazy with the best climate modeling tools the bigger issue than global warming is that more people are choosing to live in coastal areas where hurricanes certainly will be most destructive. The nascent field of attribution science attempts to explain how climate change may affect characteristics of a given hurricane using models in what if mode. Such research requires a faithful reproduction of events and predictions of the future constrained by subjective choices within computer models. This research also takes timewhich means other scientists must examine the evidence with patience and judiciousness not usually seen on Twitter or cable news. Still the scientific community already knows plenty about hurricanes and climate changeknowledge it has accumulated over two decades through peer reviewed research academic conferences and voluminous national and international assessments. Yet climate scientists all too often speculate during interviews rather than refer to IPCC reports or their cousins from the U.S. National Climate Assessment. Some climate scientists have peddled tenuous theories with no contemporaneous research evidence. Advocacy groups package these talking points for easy consumption by journalists who eagerly repeat them. The historical record books contain dozens of devastating hurricane landfalls over the past century any of which if repeated would be catastrophic regardless of additional climate change effects. To prepare for the next hurricane the U.S. needs the best weather forecasts evacuation plans and leadership. These plans should be built on sound science not speculation overselling or exaggeration. Hurricane science in this political climate already has enough spin. Mr. Maue a research meteorologist is an adjunct scholar at the Cato Institute.	True	False	False	True	True
At a conservative event in Steamboat Springs Colorado on Friday Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke pounced on the opportunity to blast his critics including the environmental terrorists he blames for wildfires in the West. The left he said is angry intolerant and uninformed when it comes to public lands and environmental issues and they arent interested in debate one of the things that have made America great. They dont want to be informed. They dont want to do the research Zinke said. They go to the same little trough of Kool Aid every day. And they dont want to expand their paradigm and look at the actual facts. On Sunday Zinke traveled to fire ravaged California where he made it abundantly clear that the Trump administration has no interest in the scientific research showing climate change is contributing to the extreme fires raging across the West or that the effect on wildfires is expected to grow as climate change drives up global temperatures and fuels droughts. Ive heard the climate change argument back and forth. This has nothing to do with climate change he told KCRA TV in Sacramento. This has to do with active forest management. It doesnt matter whether you believe or dont believe in climate change he said during another interview this weekend while touring neighborhoods torched by the deadly Carr fire west of Redding California. To be fair Zinke acknowledged that theres no doubt the fire season is getting longer the temperatures are getting hotter as The Sacramento Bee reported. But he didnt dwell on those factors and instead argued for more logging and thinning of forests while taking another swing at environmental groups that he says stand in the way of such efforts. Its true that the accumulation of fuel is among the factors that have contributed to increased fire activity and California is taking additional steps to improve forest health. But a 2016 study found that human caused climate change had doubled the amount of land that burned in Western forests over a 30 year period by significantly drying out vegetation. Thirteen of the states 20 most destructive fires on record have occurred since 2003. Coming in at No. 6 is the Carr fire which has burned more than 200000 acres destroyed 1599 structures and killed seven people including three firefighters. Additionally 15 of the states 20 largest fires have occurred since 2002. The Mendocino Complex fire which has burned nearly 300000 acres north of Santa Rosa surpassed last years Thomas fire as the largest wildfire in Californias history. California is already way ahead of where it was at this time last year both in terms of the number of fires fought and the acreage burned. That a member of President Donald Trumps Cabinet would dismiss the link between climate change and wildfire is par for the course. What makes Zinkes statements during his trip to California so astonishing is that they come two days after he stressed the importance of being informed and open minded. As HuffPost reported last week the administration appears to be using the disaster in California as an opportunity to push partisan policy. While Zinke works the logging angle Trump and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross have attempted to connect devastating California wildfires to a longstanding fight between farmers and environmentalists over water resources. The move came just two days after California fire officials dismissed Trumps claims that the fires have been exacerbated by a water shortage resulting from bad environmental laws. As they see it the problem is the one that Zinke and other administration officials refuse to acknowledge.	False	False	False	True	False
U.S. President Donald Trump displays an Executive Order on Offshore Energy Strategy at the White House in Washington U.S. April 28 2017. Photo Kevin LamarqueReuters On the eve of his 100th day in the White House President Trump signed an executive order Friday intended to let energy companies drill for oil in currently protected areas of the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans. The move was swiftly condemned by environmentalists but Trump hailed it as a victory for the economy. This is a great day for American workers and families. And today were unleashing American energy and clearing the way for thousands and thousands of high paying American energy jobs Trump said before signing the order. So far Trumps energy policies have aimed at reversing the plentiful environmental protections established by his predecessor former President Barack Obama. In the Roosevelt Room of the White House Trump said the United States is blessed with wonderful natural resources including offshore oil and natural gas reserves which can be harnessed to stimulate energy production and job growth. He said the federal government has closed off 94 percent of these offshore areas preventing potential energy production. And when they say closed they mean closed. This deprives our country of potentially thousands and thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in wealth. I pledged to take action and today I am keeping that promise he said. Trumps signing of the America First Offshore Energy Strategy comes a day before the Peoples Climate March an international protest against Trumps energy and environmental policies. The flagship march in Washington D.C. and the more than 300 affiliated marchers across the globe are expected to draw thousands. Though similar to last weeks March for Science the march on Saturday will focus on Trumps efforts to remove regulations intended to protect the environment and curb climate change rather than scientific integrity. According to Trump the new executive order begins the process of opening many offshore areas to job creating energy exploration and rescinds the Obama administrations permanent protection of the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans. A month before leaving office Obama banned offshore drilling in nearly all of the Arctic under U.S. control to protect marine life and prevent potential oil spills. He also declared portions of the Atlantic Ocean unsuitable for drilling. Obama relied upon a little known 1953 law that allows the president to ban oil and gas drilling indefinitely in U.S. waters. At the time an Obama administration official suggested that Trump would not be able to reverse the ban without an act from Congress because of its strong legal basis. On Thursday night Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke briefed the press on the contents of the executive order. He said it would direct the Interior and Commerce Departments to review offshore drilling and gas regulations in protected areas. As expected the response to Trumps executive order from the environmental community was swift and harsh. Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club released a statement saying that millions of Americans concerned about the dangers of offshore drilling will not be drowned out regardless of the oil lobbys influence over Trump. Just as he has throughout his 99 days in office Donald Trump will fail in this attempt to destroy our beaches and coastal communities. The people have been heard and will continue to be heard Brune said. Greenpeace USAs senior climate and energy campaigner Diana Best also released a statement condemning Trumps executive order. She said that renewable energy has already set the U.S. on course for energy independence and that offshore oil and gas drilling will condemn the nation to decades more of pollution. This executive order from the Trump administration is just the latest in a series of attempted rollbacks that most people in this country do not want and only come at the behest of Trumps inner circle of desperate fossil fuel executives Best said. Holing up at Mar a lago may protect Trump from an oil spill but it will not protect him and his cabinet of onepercenters from the millions of people in this country from California to North Carolina who will resist his disastrous policies.	True	False	False	True	True
WASHINGTON The Republican response to an alarming new United Nations report on looming catastrophes caused by global warming suggests that little if anything will be done by the U.S. in the near future to address the threat of rising oceans worsening droughts and raging wildfires. They might as well be calling on me to sprout wings and fly to Canada for the summer Sen. Roger Wicker R Miss. a climate change skeptic said of the actions urged by the report. Issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change the report found that the world is rapidly running out of time to scale back carbon emissions to keep planetary warming within 1.5 degrees Celsius 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit above pre industrial levels. If the flow of greenhouse gases continues to stream into the atmosphere at the current rate the IPCC determined the global mean temperature will likely rise to the 1.5 degree mark sometime between 2030 and 2052. Such a rise in global mean temperatures within that time frame would mean calamitous flooding of small islands and major coastal metropolises like New York City the report said. Warming beyond that level to 2 degrees and over would significantly exacerbate such disasters. The reports authors projected that staying at or below 1.5 degrees Celsius will require slashing the worlds greenhouse gas emissions by 45 percent from 2010 levels by 2030 and reaching net zero carbon emissions by 2050 targets that many GOP lawmakers brushed off as infeasible. Theres not enough money in the world to pay for that Kennedy said. Thats the problem with the U.N. that they come up with these policy ideas that are just La La Land. How is that new? Theyve said the same thing before Sen. Marco Rubio R Fla. said adding that his responsibility was to balance those interests raised in that report with his states broader economic and security interests. It hasnt been on my finance agenda or banking agenda Scott said referring to the Senate committees he serves on and the issues on which he focuses his attention. The IPCC recommended several steps needed to reverse carbon dioxide emissions including replacing the use of fossil fuels with renewable energy such as wind and solar as well as growing more forests which naturally recycles CO2. It also said that employing new technologies to suck carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere will be necessary to achieve the emissions target. We should be doing everything we can said Natalie Mahowald a climate scientist at Cornell University and lead author of the reports first chapter. Thats the main thing about getting to the emmissions goal is just how aggressively we have to act in every different sector of our society. Only one GOP senator approached by HuffPost signaled an openness to delving into the report Sen. Bob Corker R Tenn.. As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee he said he was looking at the possibility of holding a hearing on the matter. The Senate GOP majority likely to remain in effect after Novembers elections is dominated by lawmakers skeptical of human caused climate change such as Jim Inhofe R Okla.. He oncethrew a snowball on the Senate floor in an attempt to prove that global warming is nothing more than a hoax. Coming from a top oil producing stateInhofe has long railed against the IPCC as a biased left wing organization. On Wednesday he claimed that the panel recognized by others as the worlds leading authority on climate change had been totally discredited and dismissed its latest findings.	True	False	False	True	True
WASHINGTON President Trump'slatest effort to boost the nation's manufacturing sector is an industry friendly rewrite of air quality regulations he says pose unnecessary and outdated barriers to growth. But environmental advocates warn it would be another damaging step by an administration obsessed withderegulation at the expense of hard fought public health protections. The proposed loosening of air quality standards came in the form of a directive Trump issued Thursday instructing the EPA towork with states that have metro areas which failed to attain clean air standards. The president's primary aim the directive states is promoting domestic manufacturing and job creation. Dozens of communities across the country fail to meet Clean Air Act standards for at least one of six key pollutantsground level ozone smog particulate matter soot or smoke carbon monoxide lead sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide according to the EPA. Building or expanding major projects such as highways and manufacturing plants in these non attainment areas requires extra time and cost to make sure the increased industrial activity won't worsen air quality. And states with non attainment areas have to file plans with the EPA to show how they're confronting the problem a review process that can take years. Trump's directive orders the EPA to work with states to expedite those approvals and instructs the agency to consider whether the current process should be revised or rescinded ...to provide states with additional implementation flexibility. These actions are intended to ensure that EPA carries out its core missions of protecting the environment and improving air quality in accord with statutory requirements while reducing unnecessary impediments to new manufacturing and business expansion essential for a growing economy the presidentsaid in a statement accompanying the order. Read More Assailed as tool of industry EPA administrator Pruitt affirms importance of science Read More Exclusive EPA's Pruitt vows to continue rolling back rules despite alarming climate report Read More Scott Pruitt on a mission to change the climate of the EPA The directive comes at a time when the EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has been under increasing bipartisan fire on Capitol Hill for a number of management missteps spending decisions and potential ethical conflicts. The president has staunchly defended Pruitt largely because Trump and his conservative allies applaud how aggressively the EPA is rolling back regulations and promoting economic growth. In the 14 months he's been the nation's top environmental rulemaker the former Oklahoma attorney general who sued the EPA more than a dozen times has rolled back the Clean Power Plan rescinded the Waters of the U.S. rule and helped convince the president to back out of the Paris Accord on climate change among a number of changes. And Trump's vow to bring back coal important in mining states like West Virginia where he just visitedhave been buoyed by Pruitt's actions. The air quality directive doesnt instruct the EPA to revise the air quality standards themselves. Instead environmental advocates worry the administration would try to circumvent clean air standards without congressional say so by pursuing steps that could make it easier for industry to meet current regulations without being required to improve the quality of the air Americans beatheevery day. One of those steps they say would allow states to expand the size of non attainment areas to include areas with cleaner air so that overall pollutant levels meet environmental standards. Another would permit the EPA to discount many studies used as the basis for air quality standards for a lack of transparency because those analyses use individual health datathat cant be disclosed because they're protected under federal privacy laws. This is a backhanded way of weakening the most important and sacrosanct provision of theclean Air Act and he's nodoing it through any normal legislative process said Bill Becker former executive director of the National Association of Clean Air Agencies which represents state regulators. Trumps action empowers Pruitt to ignore science and data in determining compliance with air quality standards saidSara JordanLegislative Representative for the League of Conservation Voters. By directing the EPA to reconsider all of its past guidance from the federal air quality program Trump is threatening clean air protections for cities across the country she said. This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters. Industry representatives say the maze of federal rules governing a slew of environmental and health standards are unnecessary and burdensome. If states had more wiggle room in how they measure and apply air quality standards thousandsof jobs could be created they said. Over the years regulations on air quality have become so complicated that it can be nearly impossible for manufacturers to secure the needed approvals just to open a new facility said Ross Eisenberg Vice President for Energy and Resources Policy with the NationalAssociation of Manufacturers. EPA officials point out that much progress has been made on air quality in recent decades.Levels of Nitrogen Dioxide NOx for example have dropped by more than 50 percent since 2000. There are no monitors in the U.S. currently measuring pollution above those standards. The order encourages federal and state regulators to speed up reviews of air quality permits echoing Trump's call for quicker approvals involving infrastructure projects such as bridges roads and pipelines. But Beckersaid that comes off as a hollow demand considering the president's budget calls for significant cuts in EPA personnel and state environmental grants that help pay for such reviews. One of the most troubling aspects of Trump's order is that it's directing an agency established to reduce pollution to make job creation an expresspriority saidJohn Walke director of theNatural Resources Defense Council's clean air program. The memo encourages reliance on air pollution modeling for deregulatory purposes or permits desired by industry but not for regulatory purposes that would better protect Americans he said.	False	False	False	True	True
Reuters U.S. presidential candidate Beto ORourke on Monday laid out one of the most detailed climate policies so far in the crowded Democratic field calling for a 5 trillion investment in clean energy technology and infrastructure over 10 years with a goal of reaching net zero emissions by 2050. ORourke the former Texas congressman made climate change the focus of his first major policy announcement unveiling the plan ahead of a campaign stop meeting with scientists at the iconic Yosemite National Park in California. The greatest threat we face which will test our country our democracy every single one of us is climate change ORourke said in a statement. The plan lays out a series of executive actions that would reverse the energy dominance policies of President Donald Trump who has been rolling back environmental regulation to increase domestic fossil fuels production. ORourkes measures include U.S. re entry into the Paris Climate Agreement ordering a reduction in methane emissions from oil and gas operations halting new drilling leases on federal land and restoring pollution standards for power plants. His plan also calls for raising taxes on the wealthy and on corporations to help fund some 5 trillion in projects to modernize infrastructure and clean energy technology over a decade. The net zero goal in ORourkes and other climate plans means reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions 100 percent or offsetting them by as much as is emitted. The bill will be funded with the revenues generated by structural changes to the tax code that ensure corporations and the wealthiest among us pay their fair share and that we finally end the tens of billions of dollars of tax breaks currently given to fossil fuel companies ORourkes legislative proposal states. The plan appears to align with some of the principles of the Green New Deal a bold set of policy goals introduced by congressional Democrats that would transform the U.S. energy economy to 100 percent renewable sources by 2030 using federal funds to invest in modern infrastructure and green job programs. Most of the Democratic presidential candidates including Bernie Sanders Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren have embraced the Green New Deal which has become a focus of attacks by the Republican party which calls it unfeasible. Other candidates have announced some specific policy measures related to climate change and the environment in recent weeks and Warren has unveiled a public lands policy that would ban new drilling and mining leases on federal lands. Environmental group the League of Conservation Voters on Monday praised ORourkes plan saying that it offered the kind of leadership we need from the next president. Still the upstart Sunrise Movement the youth led group that has pushed the Green New Deal into the spotlight said ORourkes plan fell short of what they said scientists said was necessary to fend off the worst impacts of climate change. The Green New Deal calls for achieving net zero emissions within a decade not by mid century as ORourkes plan sets out. Beto claims to support the Green New Deal but his plan is out of line with the timeline it lays out and the scale of action that scientists say is necessary to take here in the United States to give our generation a livable future said Sunrise founder Varshini Prakash.	True	False	False	True	True
California continues to pass the most ambitious laws in the world to expand clean energy and combat climate change. This summer in the midst of unprecedented chaos and dysfunction in Washington California lawmakers stepped up with a bipartisan solution to one of the most pressing challenges facing our state this nation and the world. Cap and trade is an important tool in Californias climate policy portfolio. It sends a price signal to industries to reduce their carbon pollution while generating billions of dollars in revenue for investments in clean transportation and direct pollution reduction. However its hardly the only weapon in our climate arsenal and California simply cannot meet our world leading greenhouse gas reduction goals with cap and trade alone. In fact the challenge before us is a case study in market failures to suggest that market based policies on their own will solve this existential challenge is nave at best. Thats why Californias comprehensive suite of climate policies including our mandates to generate clean energy improve energy efficiency and reduce vehicle tailpipe emissions strikes a necessary balance between market based and direct regulations. As California edges out the United Kingdom to become the fifth largest economy in the world with the state unemployment rate at historic lows sound budgeting and a robust social safety net weve proven that strong climate and clean air policies can go hand in hand with economic growth. Thanks to policies mandating clean energy development Californias electric grid is one of the least carbon intensive in the world. Weve turned clean energy into a pillar of our economy that now employs over half a million Californians ten times the number of Americans employed in the coal industry. Clean renewable energy is also now cheaper than fossil fuels on a straight dollar for dollar basis in many parts of America. Thats why red states like Texas Oklahoma and Iowa are quietly spending more on zero carbon wind energy than ever before. Clean energy isnt just good for the planet its good for consumers monthly utility bills and for the economy. Setting a target of 100 percent clean renewable energy as my Senate Bill 100 will do if signed into law means that California will continue to be the worlds clean energy superpower. Other policies promoting energy and fuel efficiency are also major tools driving both innovation and pollution reductions. Our decades long commitment to energy efficiency which began with Jerry Browns first stint as Governor has not only kept our states electricity consumption flat despite a steadily rising population it has kept Californians energy spending among the lowest in the nation. These programs create local jobs incentivize massive private sector investment and are a big reason why California remains Americas capital of innovation. Most importantly policies that directly reduce pollution are our most effective tools to improve public health and quality of life in the most disproportionately impacted communities. California is home to six of the ten most polluted cities in America for ozone and particle pollution according to the American Lung Association. The families sick from breathing dirty air surely would not consider Californias air quality regulations superfluous. We need all of these tools to be able to reduce pollution drive technological innovation create jobs and expand economic growth all while keeping costs stable for consumers and businesses. Taken together they provide a comprehensive platform for clean energy and climate policy that can serve as a golden standard and a beacon of hope for the rest of the planet until common sense returns to the White House.	False	False	False	True	True
Staff at the US Department of Agriculture USDA have been told to avoid using the term climate change in their work with the officials instructed to reference weather extremes instead. A series of emails obtained by the Guardian between staff at the Natural Resources Conservation Service NRCS a USDA unit that oversees farmers land conservation show that the incoming Trump administration has had a stark impact on the language used by some federal employees around climate change. A missive from Bianca Moebius Clune director of soil health lists terms that should be avoided by staff and those that should replace them. Climate change is in the avoid category to be replaced by weather extremes. Instead of climate change adaption staff are asked to use resilience to weather extremes. The primary cause of human driven climate change is also targeted with the term reduce greenhouse gases blacklisted in favor of build soil organic matter increase nutrient use efficiency. Meanwhile sequester carbon is ruled out and replaced by build soil organic matter. In her email to staff dated 16 February this year Moebius Clune said the new language was given to her staff and suggests it be passed on. She writes that we wont change the modeling just how we talk about it there are a lot of benefits to putting carbon back in the sail sic climate mitigation is just one of them and that a colleague from USDAs public affairs team gave advice to tamp down on discretionary messaging right now. In contrast to these newly contentious climate terms Moebius Clune wrote that references to economic growth emerging business opportunities in the rural US agro tourism and improved aesthetics should be tolerated if not appreciated by all. In a separate email to senior employees on 24 January just days after Trumps inauguration Jimmy Bramblett deputy chief for programs at the NRCS said It has become clear one of the previous administrations priority is not consistent with that of the incoming administration. Namely that priority is climate change. Please visit with your staff and make them aware of this shift in perspective within the executive branch. Bramblett added that prudence should be used when discussing greenhouse gases and said the agencys work on air quality regarding these gases could be discontinued. Other emails show the often agonized discussions between staff unsure of what is forbidden. On 16 February a staffer named Tim Hafner write to Bramblett I would like to know correct terms I should use instead of climate changes and anything to do with carbon ... I want to ensure to incorporate correct terminology that the agency has approved to use. On 5 April Suzanne Baker a New York based NRCS employee emailed a query as to whether staff are allowed to publish work from outside the USDA that use climate change. A colleague advises that the issue be determined in a phone call. Some staff werent enamored with the new regime with one employee stating on an email on 5 July that we would prefer to keep the language as is and stressing the need to maintain the scientific integrity of the work. In a statement USDA said that on 23 January it had issued interim operating procedures outlining procedures to ensure the new policy team has an opportunity to review policy related statements legislation budgets and regulations prior to issuance. The statement added This guidance similar to procedures issued by previous administrations was misinterpreted by some to cover data and scientific publications. This was never the case and USDA interim procedures will allow complete objective information for the new policy staff reviewing policy decisions. Kaveh Sadeghzadeh of the Natural Resources Conservation Service added that his organisation has not received direction from USDA or the administration to modify its communications on climate change or any other topic. Trump has repeatedly questioned the veracity of climate change research infamously suggesting that it is part of an elaborate Chinese hoax. The president has started the process of withdrawing the US from the Paris climate agreement has instructed the Environmental Protection Agency EPA to scrap or amend various regulations aimed at cutting greenhouse gases and has moved to open up more public land and waters to fossil fuel activity. The nomenclature of the federal government has also shifted as these new priorities have taken hold. Mentions of the dangers of climate change have been removed from the websites of the White House and the Department of the Interior while the EPA scrapped its entire online climate section in April pending a review that will be updating language to reflect the approach of new leadership. These records reveal Trumps active censorship of science in the name of his political agenda said Meg Townsend open government attorney at the Center for Biological Diversity. To think that federal agency staff who report about the air water and soil that sustains the health of our nation must conform their reporting with the Trump administrations anti science rhetoric is appalling and dangerous for America and the greater global community. The Center for Biological Diversity is currently suing several government agencies including the EPA and state department to force them to release information on the censoring of climate change verbiage. While some of the changes to government websites may have occurred anyway the emails from within the USDA are the clearest indication yet that staff have been instructed to steer clear of acknowledging climate change or its myriad consequences. US agriculture is a major source of heat trapping gases with 15 of the countrys emissions deriving from farming practices. A USDA plan to address the far reaching impacts of climate change is still online. However Sam Clovis Trumps nomination to be the USDAs chief scientist has labeled climate research junk science. Last week it was revealed that Clovis who is not a scientist once ran a blog where he called progressives race traders and race traitors and likened Barack Obama to a communist.	True	False	False	True	True
Virginias efforts to fight climate change got a big boost after Tuesdays election with Democrats flipping both chambers of the states General Assembly. As part of its pre election platform Virginias Democratic party unanimously endorsed two major progressive environmental resolutions They voted in favor of setting a target of net zero carbon emissions for the state by 2050 and they endorsed the Green New Deal Virginia. Like the Green New Deal resolution introduced in the US Congress Virginias version aims to move the state to 100 percent renewable energy while pursuing social welfare programs like job retraining for workers who would lose their jobs in the transition. Climate change isnt a far off issue for Virginians so its not surprising that some were thinking about it at the ballot box. Many are already starting to feel the effects of the melting ice and warming oceans that result from rising average temperatures. The Hampton Roads region for example is facing the highest rate of sea level rise on the East Coast. Rising waters are worsening the impacts of tropical storms that strike the state and will cost Virginia cities billions of dollars in losses in the coming decades. Thats why Tuesdays results are a big deal for Virginia voters who want the state to do more to limit climate change. The new Democratic legislative majority could also allow Gov. Ralph Northam to fulfill his long thwarted ambition of bringing Virginia into the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative RGGI a compact among nine East Coast states to cap and trade greenhouse gas emissions credits. Northam had failed to get the Republican led legislature on board with his climate goals but he signed an executive order in September mandating that Virginia generate 30 percent of its electricity from renewables by 2030 and generate all power from non carbon emitting sources by 2050. Joining RGGI would be a key way to finance this transition toward cleaner energy with revenue coming from auctioning off carbon credits. Virginias Democratic Party also said that it would refuse contributions from energy providers like Dominion Energy and Appalachian Power that generate power from fossil fuels. Its part of a national campaign from environmental activists to push public officials to say no to money from the coal oil and natural gas industries. Yet in many key races Democrats still out raised their Republican opponents. But the test of these election promises will be in how theyre implemented. Virginia gets 53 percent of its electricity from natural gas and 10 percent from coal so its a long uphill walk to zero emissions. Virginia is just the latest state where limiting climate change has proved to be a winning issue The election results also show yet again that Democrats can campaign and win on aggressive action on climate change. And they illustrate that despite high profile criticism from Republicans the Green New Deal is proving to be popular with many voters even in local elections. Ahead of the election polls showed that more than 60 percent of Virginians wanted their government to do more about climate change. Young Virginia voters said climate change was a top tier concern. Candidates like Joshua Cole who won the election for Virginias 28th House District campaigned on environmental action including upgrading infrastructure to make it more resilient and deploying clean energy. With Congress deadlocked and President Donald Trump pulling the United States out of the Paris climate agreement Virginias election also highlights how the biggest opportunities to curb greenhouse gases are occurring at the state level. States like Oregon New Mexico Colorado and Nevada are already locking in more stringent limits on greenhouse gases and setting higher targets for deploying clean energy. And almost every Democrat running for the White House in 2020 wants to ramp up action on climate change should any of them take office. So climate change is likely to remain a key campaign issue for Democrats in the coming elections.	True	True	False	True	True
China is helping Pakistan build up its energy sector including a 3.5 billion joint venture to extract 1.3 gigawatts worth of coal in the Thar desert. Pakistan plans to use Thar brown coal to bring electricity to the millions of people living in energy poverty or suffering through daily blackouts. The country could get 24 percent of its electricity from coal by 2020 with the help of China. Its one of many coal projects China is backing abroad while it cuts coal mining and power generation at home to fight pollution. China also promised to peak greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 as part of the Paris climate agreement. Chinas energy ministry canceled more than 100 coal fired power plants that were being planned or being built in January. The country reaffirmed its commitment to its Paris commitments after U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order rolling back global warming regulations in late March. As a responsible developing country Chinas plan determination and policy to tackle climate change is resolute Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang told the Associated Press. Chinas coal use fell nearly 5 percent last year but the country still gets 62 percent of its electricity from coal fired power plants. The countryscut in domestic coal use comes as they fund coal projects abroad including the Engro mine in the Thar desert. Another Chinese joint venture plans to build another coal project near the Engro mine in June. Another block of coal will begin production for electricity generation by 2019 reports the Salt Law Tribune. China has also backed coal fired power plants in Southeast Asian countries including Vietnam. China is involved in financing or building at least 79 coal fired power projects around the world. The total generating capacity of those projects is 52 gigawatts. Why the push abroad? It provides Chinese firms and investors with opportunities to make money off coal projects at a time when thats less politically popular in China. Coal workers also travel to these projects keeping them from losing their jobs. The Engro mine for example has 350 Chinese workers and the return on equity for Chinese investors is about 30 percent according to the Salt Lake Tribune. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	False	False	False	False	True
Fans of Greta Thunberg have expressed relief after the 16 year old posted a string of smiling photographs on Instagram. The environmental activist's recent images taken while touring Canada's east coast in Montreal and Quebec are in sharp contrast to images of the 16 year old speaking in an emotionally charged appearance last month at the Climate Action Summit 2019 in New York. A photo of Greta scowling when she spotted Donald Trump went viral. The teenage campaigner who has 7.2million followers on Instagram looks decidedly happier since she crossed the border from the US something which her followers haven't failed to notice. Writing on Instagram Greta said 'So happy to say that the following weeks I'll travel slowly through the North American continent moving southwest and then eventually through South America towards Santiago. I will stop on the way and visit as many places as I can and of course protest every Friday no matter where I am.' Yesterday the teenager posted an image of herself at the Marine Mammal Interpretation Centre in Tadoussac Qubec after spending a morning watching whales. The tone of Greta's images have changed significantly since she addressed the United Nations Climate Summit on September 23rd where she came close to tears in a emotional speech to international delegates. She told them 'I shouldn't be up here. I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean. Yet you all come to us for hope. How dare you. You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words' During the same appearance Greta was seen at the UN headquarters with an enraged expression on her face as US President Donald Trump upstaged her entrance by walking in flanked by news reporters an image that promptly went viral. Among the comments posted by the environmentalist's followers many remarked how much happier the teenager had looked in recent days. On Instagram Jesuissuzette wrote 'Greta you look so much happier now that youre out of America. Enjoy your travels. And thank you for your intrepid Climate Crisis campaign.' Last week Thunberg addressed on social media the negativity she's received for speaking out on climate change saying 'Here we go again... As you may have noticed the haters are as active as ever going after me my looks my clothes my behaviour and my differences. They come up with every thinkable lie and conspiracy theory. It seems they will cross every possible line to avert the focus since they are so desperate not to talk about the climate and ecological crisis. Being different is not an illness and the current best available science is not opinions its facts.' Greta who is taking a sabbatical year from school arrived in North America in August taking a two week crossing on carbon neutral yacht Malizia II to address the United Nations. Greta Thunberg's fiery speech at the UN Climate Action Summit in New York This is all wrong. I shouldnt be standing here. I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean. Yet you all come to me for hope? How dare you! You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words. And yet Im one of the lucky ones. People are suffering. People are dying. Entire ecosystems are collapsing. We are in the beginning of a mass extinction. And all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth. How dare you! For more than 30 years the science has been crystal clear. How dare you continue to look away and come here saying that you are doing enough when the politics and solutions needed are still nowhere in sight. You say you hear us and that you understand the urgency. But no matter how sad and angry I am I dont want to believe that. Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act then you would be evil. And I refuse to believe that. The popular idea of cutting our emissions in half in 10 years only gives us a 50 chance of staying below 1.5C degrees and the risk of setting off irreversible chain reactions beyond human control. Maybe 50 is acceptable to you. But those numbers dont include tipping points most feedback loops additional warming hidden by toxic air pollution or the aspects of justice and equity. They also rely on my and my childrens generation sucking hundreds of billions of tonnes of your CO2 out of the air with technologies that barely exist. So a 50 risk is simply not acceptable to us we who have to live with the consequences. To have a 67 chance of staying below a 1.5C global temperature rise the best odds given by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change the world had 420 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide left to emit back on 1 January 2018. Today that figure is already down to less than 350 gigatonnes. How dare you pretend that this can be solved with business as usual and some technical solutions. With todays emissions levels that remaining CO2 budget will be entirely gone in less than eight and a half years. There will not be any solutions or plans presented in line with these figures today. Because these numbers are too uncomfortable. And you are still not mature enough to tell it like it is. You are failing us. But the young people are starting to understand your betrayal. The eyes of all future generations are upon you. And if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you. We will not let you get away with this. Right here right now is where we draw the line. The world is waking up. And change is coming whether you like it or not.	False	True	False	True	True
The US will consider its interests first as it reviews its climate change policy the secretary of state says. Rex Tillerson told a meeting of the eight Arctic nations in Alaska that the US would not rush to make a decision and would consider their views. President Donald Trump has expressed doubts over the human role in climate change and has said he may pull the US out of the Paris Accord to fight it. Meanwhile other Arctic countries have called for a cut on greenhouse gases. They signed an agreement which stated there was a need for urgent global action. Climate change was the biggest issue at the biennial meeting of the Arctic Council in Fairbanks which was overshadowed by the uncertainties over Mr Trump's policy. Mr Tillerson the former chief executive of Exxon Mobil told the meeting that the administration was reviewing how it would approach climate change. We are appreciative that each of you has an important point of view and you should know that we are taking the time to understand your concerns he said. We're not going to rush to make a decision. We're going to work to make the right decision for the United States. Mr Trump is to decide whether the US will leave or reduce its commitments to the Paris agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions which was negotiated by around 200 nations and signed in 2015. An announcement is expected after a trip to Europe later this month. The joint agreement by the Arctic Council mentioned the Paris accord only in a passing reference which noted the deal's entry into force and implementation. But the text did not recommit its members to meet the pledges made. Some climate scientists here in Alaska say they are pleasantly surprised by the relatively tough language on climate change adopted by all eight Arctic Council nations including the United States. The thrust of the text argues Prof John Walsh chief scientist at the University of Alaska's International Arctic Research Center actually echoes the approach of the Obama administration. The acceptance of the urgent need to reduce greenhouse gases such as methane and carbon dioxide and pollutants like black carbon and aerosols appears significant. But a couple of things are missing. Although the logic of the statement insists that human activity is causing climate change the word human is not actually present. Nor is there a commitment to implement the landmark Paris accord an omission which is causing alarm among environmentalists. Not only that but many of the Trump administration's early policy decisions prioritised economic growth over environmental protection and Mr Tillerson continues to insist that American climate policy remains under review. So in short it is far too early to conclude that the White House has suddenly been persuaded by mainstream scientific opinion on global warming and with US politics in astonishing flux the Fairbanks Declaration may be no more than a holding statement.	True	True	True	False	False
The federal rule required vehicles to average 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025 nearly double todays standard. The new standard provided significant environmental and financial benefits if fully implemented. Under those rules oil consumption would fall by 12 billion barrels tailpipe emissions would halve and fuel efficiency would nearly double saving consumers 3200 to 5700 in gasoline costs over a vehicles lifetime. The regulation would have prevented 6 billion metric tons of planet warming gases equivalent to a years worth of pollution from 150 power plants from ever entering the atmosphere. In its 38 page finding the EPA cited lower gas prices and changes to consumer acceptance of advanced technology vehicles as reasons the original determinations no longer represent realistic assumptions. The agency also said it planned to reconsider how climate change factored in to regulation noting that the social cost of carbon and energy security valuation ... should also be updated to be consistent with the literature and empirical evidence. The memo made no mention of climate change. Automakers agreed to the rule in 2012 as part of the first major overhaul of fuel efficiency standards since the 1970s. But the policy set an April 2018 deadline to review the standards and tweak them if they proved too expensive or impossible to meet. In January 2017 the Obama administration attempted to lock the regulation in place by issuing a positive assessment of the costs and feasibility of the regulations. Despite overwhelmingly supporting the agreement seven years ago carmakers began lobbying then President elect Donald Trump to reverse the Obama ruling almost immediately after the 2016 election.Automakers missed their emissions target for the first time last year even though they achieved record fuel economy in part because the companies boosted production of gas guzzling SUVs. The decision to rewrite the rule puts the EPA at loggerheads with California regulators who agreed in 2011 as part of the rule to align their tailpipe emissions standards with the national levels. The deal guaranteed consistent mileage and emissions rules nationwide allowing automakers to save money by manufacturing vehicles to one standard. Undoing the rule threatens to upend that uniformity. Under the Clean Air Act California is allowed to set vehicle emissions standards higher than the rest of the country and with nearly 35.4 million registered vehicles the state commands powerful influence over the American auto market. A dozen other states including New York Massachusetts and Pennsylvania have historically followed Californias lead. Cooperative federalism doesnt mean that one state can dictate standards for the rest of the country Pruitt said. It is in Americas best interest to have a national standard and we look forward to partnering with all states including California as we work to finalize that standard. The decision prompted sharp criticism from former EPA administrators. Carol Browner who served as the agencys chief from 1993 to 2001 said Pruitt was wrong to cast California as wielding outsize influence over the regulations. She noted that the Golden State compromised on a number of rules including a zero emissions vehicle program. This is all just another case of this administration wanting to make good on their political rhetoric and in this case not even wanting to make good for our own automakersMcCarthy now the director of Harvard Universitys Center for Health and the Global Environmenttold HuffPost. We support increasing clean car standards through 2025 and are not asking for a rollback they wrote in a blog post on Medium. We want one set of standards nationally along with additional flexibility to help us provide more affordable options for our customers. The EPA never implemented the Clean Power Plan the signature Obama era rule to reduce emissions from the utility sector. But the law is still on the books and the EPA has yet to propose a replacement that meets the legal requirements set by a 2007 Supreme Court ruling that found the agency is obliged to regulate any type of air pollution that may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare including greenhouse gases. The EPA and the Department of the Interior moved to eliminate Obama era rules restricting methane emissions from gas drilling sites. But last July the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled against the EPAs plan to suspend the rule. In February the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California ruled that the Interior Departments plan to delay methane regulations was untethered to evidence.	False	False	False	True	True
Nearly 10000 farmers and ranchers are endorsing the Green New Deal as the climate policy battleground expands from the oil fields to the agricultural fields. In a letter sent to Congresson Wednesday morning the newly formed bipartisan coalition U.S. Farmers Ranchers for a Green New Deal threw its weight behind the sweeping industrial plan outlined in a resolution that Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. proposed in February. But zeroing out the countrys planet heating emissions by mid century requires a transformation in agriculture as dramatic as shifting the energy sector away from fossil fuels the letter says. We believe these climate goals are achievable the letter argues but only if the GND includes policies that spur two large scale transitions the transition away from fossil fuels toward renewable energy alternatives and the transition away from industrial agriculture toward family farm based organic and regenerative farming and land use practices that improve soil health and draw down and sequester carbon. The letter was signed by more than 500 individual farms and 50 organizations representing close to 10000 members. Regeneration International a sustainable farming nonprofit organized the missive with the climate justice group Sunrise Movement. It also hosted a Wednesday morning press conference in Washington. A month ago the United Nations released a dire new report urging major changes to food production and land management and warning that emissions cuts alone will fall short of halting catastrophic global warming. Taking cues from those pushing for a Green New Deal several Democratic presidential hopefuls have made farming practices central to their climate proposals. Sen. Bernie Sanders I Vt. earmarked 410 billion in his Green New Deal proposal to help farms of all sizes transition to ecologically regenerative agricultural practices. Sen. Elizabeth Warren D Mass. called for breaking up agriculture monopolies as part of her broad rural platform. South Bend Indiana MayorPete Buttigieg vowed to support farmers by paying them to capture carbon. Yet even as farmers reel from the effects of President Donald Trumps trade war with China Democratic candidates are far from guaranteed their votes. Farmers supported the Trump administrations proposal last week tofinalize the rollback of the Obama era Waters of the U.S. rule which had put new restrictions on which waterways agribusiness could pollute. Early on Republican opposition to the Green New Deal itself coalesced around the idea that such a program would ban beef production although supporters have clearly said it would not. We call on Congress to put the Green in the Green New Deal Wednesdays letter reads by empowering us to revitalize the health and economic security of this countrys middle class to make family farming economically viable again and to help reverse climate change and improve Americas air and water quality by making our ecosystems healthy again.	True	False	False	True	False
Republican Rep. Matt Gaetz unveiled the Green Real Deal on Wednesday as a free market counterproposal to the Green New Deal being pushed by Democratsto combat climate change. The question for America is pretty simple either we want a bunch of bureaucrats in Washington telling us what we cant do or we empower American innovators to unlock things that we can do the Florida congressman said at a press conference in front of the Capitol building. AOC MOCKS CRITICS OF GREEN NEW DEAL'S ESTIMATED 93 TRILLION PRICE TAG 'THEY SOUND LIKE DR. EVIL' His plan which he is putting forward in a House resolutioninvolves a number of planks including revisitingglobal trade and intellectual property policies to create an international marketplace fair to American innovators. Gaetz's planalso aims to modernize the electric grid which he says currently functions as a wet blanket over American innovation. Gaetz claims that upgrading the grid will create an entire class of energy entrepreneurs across the country. He also wants to unlock federal lands from current regulations saying they can be an open canvas for renewable energy research testing and evaluation. The plan comes in response to the Green New Deal a once fringe policy that seeks to overhaul the nations economy and energy use to combat climate change and combat income inequality. But this year it has emerged in the Democratic mainstream with a resolution introduced in the House and support from most major 2020 Democratic presidential candidates. However a test vote on the proposal recently failed in the Senate with no senator voting to begin debate on the legislation. The proposalincludes a host of costly and controversial big government programs including a push for net zero greenhouse gas emissions universal health care andjob guarantee programs. In the press conference Gaetz made references to FAQs released by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs D N.Y. office that said the deal aims to upgrade or replace every building for energy efficiency and render air travel unnecessary while joking about getting rid of farting cows. Do we really believe that if we outlaw cars cows planes and buildings that the rest of the world will follow? he said. Of course not they will laugh at us. While Gaetzs proposal consists of free market and small government ideas of the kind Republicans have long embraced the plan is a notable shift for the party towardtackling climate change in some fashion. Traditionally Republicans have been more skeptical about mans influence on the climate. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Andrew Wheeler was asked in January at his confirmation hearing if he believed warnings from scientists about the threats of climate change. I would not call it the greatest crisis no he said. In an indication of likely conservative opposition to Gaetz'splan advocacy group FreedomWorks issued a statement calling it a sad example of Republicans thinking theyre conservatives by being slightly to the right of far left. Whats more it is presented as a collection of bold new ideas yet most of them are policies and programs that exist and arent working. This is perhaps the only thing real about the Green Real Deal' the statement said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Gaetzsaid at the press conference that he doesn't think the EPA has done a good job of combating climate change and said he wants to shift the debate among Republicans from focusing on theexistence of climate change to how to combat it. I didn't come to Congress to argue with a thermometer and I think that more of my colleagues need to realize that the science of global warming is irrefutable he said.	True	False	False	False	True
The sun dips towards the sea on Xifara beach as Stella Cervello walks along picking up handfuls of plastic waste. There are shredded plastic bags a glowstick from a rave on nearby Mykonos and even a food carton from Turkey. Look you can see all the microplastics she says pointing at a mass of coloured dots bobbing on the waves. Like many islands in Greece's Cycladic region waste production on the island of Paros explodes in summer when over 400000 tourists join a local population of just 13000. Paros is now at the centre of a drive to turn itself into the world's first island that is truly free of plastic waste. It looks like quite a challenge. In high season the white and blue painted cafes that line the picturesque streets get through 1000 plastic takeaway cups a day. Thousands of plastic bottles of water are shipped in daily because many believe the tap water is undrinkable although the water company insists that is wrong. You are really exposed to the reality of the situation when you live by the sea says campaigner Zana Kontamanoli. The Greek waste management system suffered heavy cuts during the country's financial crisis meaning recycling is often not separated and many landfill sites are not up to EU standards. A shocking 95 of waste in the Mediterranean is plastic. But within three years this may change. Paros residents Stella Cervello and Zana Kontamanoli are behind the Clean Blue Paros initiative that involves the local municipality as well as several NGOs. I was really shocked when I arrived. I could not believe how many plastic cups were flying around by the beach says Ms Cervello who began trying to make the island more sustainable when she moved here from France in 2016. And while she was starting up a Facebook group and talking to businesses about possible alternatives to plastic Jo Royle from the charity Common Seas was trying to identify a Mediterranean island that could become a model for a future free of plastic waste. Islands provide a microcosm of a system that allows us to clearly see material flows says Ms Royle. We've got one port where everything comes in and goes off so we can really evaluate whether the systems we're piloting work. Paros was chosen because its changes in population give it complexity and because she found out when she visited the island that people were already working on the issue. Other islands such as the Seychelles archipelago have banned single use plastics but this is the first time an entirely new approach is being taken to make an island completely free of plastic waste. Huge signs now greet tourists at the airport to tell them about the Paros initiative. It's what the island needs says Ms Cervello. The team's first task was to convince as many local businesses as possible to drop pointless plastics such as straws and bottled water. Out of 70 businesses we've spoken to 50 have signed up says Zana Kontamanoli. Fourteen businesses are piloting the separate collection of plastic cups and bottles which have a higher value recycle rate. The plastic will then be recycled on the mainland into something that can return to the island such as benches. Research shows that when recycling is separated people are less likely to just chuck all their waste in and contaminate it says Kontamanoli. However there are still many obstacles facing the team. Most bins on the island do not close so the strong Aegean winds blow waste into the sea. And while many residents are enthusiastic about the project there are still some that need convincing. Not serving bottled water has harmed us admits Andy Kirk owner of Nemobar the first business to sign up to the scheme. Even when we explain we have a water filter many customers don't like it. But we've stuck to our guns. Another sticking point has been convincing bakeries and pharmacies to stop using plastic bags. The team has managed to collect thousands of used hotel bed sheets which would usually be sent to landfill and are making them into tote bags. In our audit we found that on some parts of the island 60 of waste was recyclable so there needs to be more education says Kontamanoli. The team is focusing its education efforts on the island's 2500 schoolchildren. Most drink one small bottle of water a day each so they are being given refillable bottles while water filters are being installed at schools. Children are powerful drivers of change because they go home and talk to their parents about it says Zana Kontamanoli. Although they are only six months in the team are optimistic that big changes can be made as soon as the tourist season is over and residents have more time on their hands to overhaul how they do things. Plastic pollution is very complex and there's not one solution says Jo Royle. But we hope if these systems work they can be applied elsewhere too.	False	True	False	True	False
It is a landmark deal that has been more than two decades in the making. Russia Iran Azerbaijan Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan all bordering the Caspian Sea have agreed in principle on how to divide it up. Their leaders signed the Convention on the Legal Status of the Caspian Sea in the Kazakh city of Aktau on Sunday. It establishes a formula for dividing up its resources and prevents other powers from setting up a military presence there. It is an important step in the easing of regional tensions but the deal over the world's largest inland body of water matters for several reasons. Here's what you need to know about the hotly disputed Caspian Sea. It would be reasonable to assume that the Caspian Sea is well a sea. But at the heart of this long running dispute is whether or not the 370000 sq km 143000 sq mile body of landlocked water should be considered a lake. Until the dissolution of the Soviet Union USSR in 1991 that's what it was known as and shared between the USSR and Iran. But the arrival on the scene of new countries complicated this issue with ensuing claim and counterclaim. Iran had argued it was a lake and not a sea but none of the four other countries agreed. Why is the difference so important? If it was treated as a sea then it would be covered by international maritime law namely the United Nations Law of the Sea. This binding document sets rules on how countries can use the world's oceans. It covers areas such as the management of natural resources territorial rights and the environment. And it is not limited to littoral states meaning others can seek access to its resources. But if it is defined as a lake then it would have to be divided equally between all five countries. Sunday's agreement goes some way to settling this dispute. The signed convention gives the body of water a special legal status which means it is not defined as a sea or a lake Russian officials said. The surface water will be in common usage meaning freedom of access for all littoral states beyond territorial waters. But the seabed which is rich in natural resources will be divided up. It's difficult to say as the final text of the deal is yet to be published. Another key factor is that seabed boundaries are yet to be negotiated although now it's the subject of bilateral agreements not multilateral as before. But because the deal does not define the Caspian as a lake Iran which has the smallest coastline is viewed as a potential loser. Iranian social media users have accused the government in Tehran of selling off the Caspian Sea on Sunday. However Iran which is currently under growing political and economic pressure from the West might see some political benefits in securing the clause that bars any armed presence on the Caspian other than that of the five littoral states. Had the Caspian been defined as a lake Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan who have established an early claim over large areas of the Caspian stood to lose out under such a split. So the basis of all previous disagreements stems from who gets access to what. This is important because... The Caspian Sea is highly prized for its vast oil and gas reserves. It's estimated there are 50 billion barrels of oil and nearly 300 trillion cubic feet 8.4 trillion cubic metres of natural gas beneath its seabed. That is why disagreements over how to divide some of its huge oil and gas fields have been numerous and acrimonious. On occasion warships have been deployed to scare off contractors hired by rival countries. The disagreement over its legal status has also prevented a natural gas pipeline being built across the Caspian between Turkmenistan and Azerbaijan. This would have allowed Turkmen gas to bypass Russia on its way to Europe. Russia a major exporter of gas and oil to Europe has previously objected to this. International oil companies that rushed to the Caspian in the 1990s have now pulled out. But there is a possibility this could be explored further following Sunday's deal. The Caspian Sea has a number of different species of sturgeon the fish that yields the highly prized delicacy caviar. Between 80 90 of the world's caviar is sourced from the Caspian but the numbers have been falling over the past few decades. In 2002 a survey found that the fish was rapidly disappearing and could soon become extinct. It also found an abnormally large proportion of young sturgeon in comparison to more mature fish which produce the eggs used to make caviar. In response various bans on sturgeon fishing in the Caspian Sea and on the caviar trade more generally have been introduced. Significantly Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev said on Sunday that the recent agreement allowed the setting of national quotas for fishing. The Caspian Sea has long suffered pollution from oil extraction and other industries. Oil pollution has affected the migration routes of sturgeon according to the UN's Caucasus Environment Outlook. It says sturgeon swim through highly polluted water near Azerbaijan's Absheron Peninsula and that is believed to limit their food and oxygen. A more recent concern is bacterial pollution caused by sewage from Iran which is adding to the threats facing sturgeon fish. The Caspian Sea's disputed legal status was also a risk factor for the environment as no enforcement would have been possible to deal with a major oil spill or other pollution incident in disputed waters.	False	False	False	True	False
The news but shorter. Your daily wrap up for the day in news. Subscribe to get Vox Sentences delivered straight to your inbox. This story is part of a group of stories called Vox Sentences is your daily digest for whats happening in the world. Sign up for the Vox Sentences newsletter delivered straight to your inbox Monday through Friday or view the Vox Sentences archive for past editions. UN climate talks ended Sunday without a full agreement of world powers on how to address the imminent threat of global warming. AP News Frank Jordans and Aritz Parra While the negotiations were meant to shore up the Paris agreement and define the terms on which the signatory countries would reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. But Trump has pulled the US out of the deal unofficially since the US cant formally withdraw until November 4 2020 the day after the American presidential election. Vox Umair Irfan The US along with other major polluters blocked a nonbinding measure that set higher standards for emissions reduction across the world and left little more than a weak call to action in the final declaration of the event. New York Times Somini Sengupta Several other countries who are experiencing climate disasters of their own such as Australia and Brazil also participated in gutting the summit. Financial Times Were in a very politically difficult time right now where weve got one key world leader denying climate change so its very hard to get other countries to move forward when youve got such a critical country playing a spoiling role said Ian Fry a delegate from Tuvalu. Politico Zack Colman and Kalina Oroschakoff Future negotiations are possible with the next UN sponsored conference regarding climate change set to take place in Glasgow but the EU China summit next September in Leipzig will likely decide the outcome of future global efforts to combat climate change. BBC Matt McGrath Voxs Ezra Klein says there is still hope and time for us to fight global warming. The tools are within our reach. Vox Ezra Klein Some states are looking to shell out billions to help the 2020 census effort while others wont even pitch in a dime. New York Times Michael Wines and Jose A. Del Real Many of these costly efforts surround reaching hard to count populations within states often at the expense of those populations. NBC29 CJ Paschall Another potential issue that is concerning researchers is the obfuscation of the data due to the new policy of differential privacy that is designed to protect individual responses. While it is supposed to prevent individuals from being identified within data sets it is skewing data and producing problems in the analysis. Roll Call Michael Macagnone The Council on Foreign Relations Andrew Chatzky explains why the census really matters granting political agency dividing up federal funds and assist private companies in matching their business endeavors with receptive populations. Council on Foreign Relations Andrew Chatzky Oklahoma City and other local governments are looking to end food deserts by working with dollar stores. Wall Street Journal Talal Ansari Harvey Weinstein says he should receive thanks and recognition for helping women in Hollywood advance their careers. Page Six Rebecca Rosenberg Fox News is rebutting Trumps own claims of good polling numbers. Vox Aaron Rupar While speaking at the Doha Forum in Qatar Ivanka Trump answered questions and sent mixed signals about the Middle East plan. Buzzfeed News Otillia Steadman If a person can accomplish all of that positivity with so little imagine what they could do with a little bit of support and encouragement. Terah Lawyer program coordinator for the Homecoming Project speaking to the impact of the project Watch this What makes Delhis air so deadly How Indias air quality plummeted and why its a danger to the public. YouTube Christina Thornell and Mac Schneider How a denial of tenure at Harvard became a national controversy Healthcare.gov glitches almost ruined the end of open enrollment. Is there a better way? Mitt Romney and Michael Bennet just unveiled a basic income plan for kids The reason were talking about a government shutdown yet again briefly explained	False	True	False	True	False
We told you last week that the DNC refused to allow their 2020 Democratic candidates to debate the issue of Climate Change. They were afraid that it would end up hurting whichever candidate goes into the general election next year. Well this is the end result of that decision. CNN has announced one massive town hall on Climate Change not massive in crowd size but massive in the amount of time it will take CNN on Tuesday announced the candidate lineup for its unprecedented prime time event focused on the climate crisis. Ten Democratic presidential hopefuls will appear in New York at back to back town halls on Wednesday September 4 taking audience questions about their climate plans as scientists sound the alarm about global warming. Along with the candidates the network also announced the CNN journalists and the approximate appearance times for the presidential hopefuls during the seven hour live event. Here are the details of this marathon non debate town hall Id rather fall into a 40000 foot deep man made hole in Russia than watch Democrats tell us how were all going to die in 12 years if we dont get rid of fossil fuels.	False	False	False	True	False
Warmer temperatures are threatening American songbirds with dwindling numbers due to an inability to successfully breed a new study from Scientific Reports alleges. A team of researchers studied migratory patterns of songbirds between 2001 and 2012 and claimed that of the 48 North American songbird species that migrate north nine of these or almost 20 percent didnt reach the grounds by the deadline critical for mating and breeding the next generation of birds wrote Karla Lant in her summary of the report Plants in eastern North America are greening up sooner than normal because of global warming the report contends while plants in the western part of the continent are somehow undergoing the process later. This means that birds such as the Townsends warbler and the rose breasted grosbeak are arriving either too soon and being met with frigid temperatures or too late and missing out on the insect boom that coincides with the new plant growth Lant stated. Either way the birds have a much lower chance of surviving and reproducing the report alleges so the nine species identified are consequently in danger of dwindling numbers. As climate at the breeding grounds changes birds may be unable to adjust wintering ground departure times and transit speeds sufficiently to match their arrival with altered breeding resource phenology particularly leaf growth and the closely associated emergence of herbivorous insects the report warns. If attributing changes in migratory patterns of songbirds to global warming after a mere 12 years of observation strikes readers as highly suspicious thats probably because it is. Event attributionthe ability to link a given phenomenon to manmade global warmingis exceedingly speculative at best and completely unreliable at worst even according to true believers. At a meeting of climate scientists at Oxford in 2012 one participant argued that given the insufficient observational data and the coarse and mathematically imperfect climate models used to generate attribution claims they are unjustifiably speculative basically unverifiable and better not made at all. Nature Magazine felt compelled to conclude with unusual modesty that better models are needed before exceptional events can be reliably linked to global warming. Of course the purpose of studies such as these which remarkably continue to receive funding is ultimately practical rather than speculative. They are meant primarily not to inform but to exhort and to put pressure on policy makers to coerce human behavior change in accordance with climate change theory. As for the fate of these migratory birds that really depends on how far were willing to go to end manmade climate change Lants article predictably concludes. Climate change is projected to drive hundreds of bird species to extinction and greatly reduce the ranges of others the report prophecies and is already impacting species richness and composition.	True	False	False	True	False
Washington CNN Hurricane Florence ravaged Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune in North Carolina in September leaving behind an estimated 3.6 billion worth of wreckage. But there's no mention of that in a new Pentagon report detailing the impact of climate change on the defense department. The Report on Effects of a Changing Climate to the Department of Defense does not mention Camp Lejeune the Marine Corps Hurricane Florence or even the threats posed by extreme weather events more destructive storms more intense rainfall that scientists say are more likely given climate change and global warming. Those omissions are just one reason lawmakers greeted the Congressionally mandated report with eviscerating criticism on Friday. The report didn't meet the legal requirement to list the 10 most vulnerable military installations for each service they said. And despite the global impact of climate change it didn't list a single US military installation outside the United States. Lawmakers pointing to President Donald Trump's skepticism about climate change and his administration's steady rollback of measures meant to mitigate the impacts of global warming were scathing. The report is an inadequate incomplete partisan document said Sen. Jack Reed the ranking Democratic member of the Armed Services Committee. We know that climate change is real and impacts the way our Armed Forces carry out their missions in different parts of the globe Reed said in a statement. Former Secretary James Mattis recognized and affirmed this fact. The Pentagon report follows a January study by the Government Accountability Office that found that under the Trump administration the State Department removed guidance to overseas missions on how to include climate change risks in their country strategies particularly in relation to migration. The Pentagon report notes that the department is incorporating climate resilience as a cross cutting consideration for our planning and decision making process and not as a separate program or specific set of actions. Pentagon spokesman Lt. Col. Mike Andrews said the effects of a changing climate are a national security issue with potential impacts to DOD missions operational plans and installations. But Reed noted that despite legal requirements the Pentagon report simply outlined an alphabetical list of 79 military installations. The report reads like an introductory primer and carries about as much value as a phonebook he said. And Rep. Jim Langevin a Rhode Island Democrat who sits on the House Armed Services Committee said he was deeply disappointed. Langevin noted that the the report comes after a year where the Department suffered nearly 10 billion in damage in just two extreme events at Tyndall Air Force Base and Camp Lejeunetwo installations that were not even evaluated. Pentagon spokeswoman Heather Babb said the report highlights the climate vulnerabilities of the top 79 mission assurance priority installations. By using this alternative approach we are able to highlight where there are operational risks. The Pentagon did not answer multiple questions from CNN including why it failed to meet Congress' request to list the 10 most vulnerable installations why it mentioned no military installations outside the US or why the climate factors it considered did not include extreme weather and why Camp Lejeune isn't listed among the 79 installations. Babb also declined to respond to Reed's criticism. The report acknowledges that the effects of a changing climate are a national security issue with potential impacts to Department of Defense missions operational plans and installations. It looks at the impact of recurrent flooding noting that Joint Base Langley in Virginia has seen a 14 inch sea level rise since 1930. It briefly notes military installations affected drought particularly in the southwest and by desertification. The report touches on wildfires that came close to Space Launch complexes and a southern California base as well as thawing permafrost in Alaska. Although no overseas military installations were listed the report noted the widely recognized impact climate change has on fragile regions particularly in Africa and Asia and the instability and conflict it can create. It lists a few projects the defense department has undertaken with partner countries and notes the need to consider how drought and desertification impact overseas bases and missions. The report also raised very briefly the logistical challenge weather conditions can create for intelligence collection surveillance and reconnaissance as well as recovery and casualty evacuation. And it flagged the way climate change will create new security challenges in the Arctic where melting ice means greater access but also greater international competition for the waterways.	False	False	False	True	False
LOS ANGELES Reuters One of the worst droughts in California history has officially ended Governor Jerry Brown declared but not before it strained the states farm economy and threatened water supplies for millions of residents. Months of drenching storms and melting snowpack have replenished reservoirs which began drying up in late 2011. That allowed Brown to lift most stipulations of an emergency order he implemented in January 2014 about two years after the conditions crossed the line into drought. Brown also said the need for conservation continued. Officials will still require some long term water use limits imposed last year and are developing water preservation standards for urban agencies. This drought emergency is over but the next drought could be around the corner Brown said in a statement. Conservation must remain a way of life. The drought cost the agricultural economy billions killed an estimated 100 million trees led a half million acres of farmland to be fallowed and deprived some communities of reliable sources of drinking water. In April 2015 when the states snowpack hit its lowest since 1950 at 5 percent of its historic average Brown stood on a dry mountain that was normally blanketed in snow at that time of year and ordered urban areas to reduce water use by 25 percent. As of last week the snowpack stood at 150 percent of normal. The 2015 order led environmentalists to complain that the state which leads the nation in production of fruits and vegetables did too little to force farmers to conserve water. For their part farmers said they received far less water than promised by state and federal authorities. On Friday the Democratic governor lifted the drought declaration in all counties except four mostly in the states agricultural Central Valley. Its worth taking a moment to be grateful for all the rain and snow out there Felicia Marcus chair of the State Water Resources Control Board told reporters on a conference call after the governors announcement. California officials have credited residents for doing their part to conserve water by taking shorter showers and ripping out grass lawns to install landscaping that requires minimal irrigation among other measures. Even though the drought is officially over groundwater supplies remain below normal the Natural Resources Defense Council cautioned in a statement. Year after year California continues to use more water than is made available by nature Kate Poole director of the groups water and wildlife project said in a statement.	True	False	False	True	True
WASHINGTON The Trump administration is moving to roll back the centerpiece of President Barack Obama's efforts to slow global warming seeking to ease restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions from coal fired power plants. In a plan expected to be made public in coming days the Environmental Protection Agency EPA declared the Obama era rule exceeded federal law by setting emissions standards that power plants could not reasonably meet. The Associated Press obtained a copy of the 43 page document which underscored President Trump's bid to revive the struggling coal industry. The EPA's new proposal would make good on Mr. Trump's campaign pledge to unravel Obama's efforts to curb global warming and follows Mr. Trump's promise to pull the United States out of the landmark Paris climate agreement. Nearly 200 countries have committed to combat global warming by reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming. The EPA won't prescribe an immediate replacement to the plan but will seek public comment on whether to curb climate warming emissions from coal and natural gas power plants. A spokeswoman for EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt declined to comment Friday on the authenticity of the leaked document but said the Obama administration pushed the bounds of their authority so far that the U.S. Supreme Court issued a stay to prevent the Clean Power Plan from taking effect. Any replacement rule that the Trump administration proposes will be done carefully and properly within the confines of the law EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman said. The plan was first reported by Bloomberg News. The Obama administration's cost benefits analysis of the Clean Power Plan was highly uncertain in multiple areas Bowman said vowing that the Trump administration will present a range of scenarios to the public in a robust open and transparent way. Obama's plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. The rule dictated specific emission targets for states based on power plant emissions and gave officials broad latitude to decide how to achieve reductions. The Supreme Court put the plan on hold last year following a legal challenge by industry and coal friendly states. Even so the plan has been a factor in a wave of retirements of coal fired plants which also are being squeezed by lower costs for natural gas and renewable power and state mandates promoting energy conservation. Repealing the Clean Power Plan without a timeline or a commitment to propose a rule to reduce carbon pollution isn't a step forward it's a wholesale retreat from EPA's legal scientific and moral obligation to address the threats of climate change' said former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy. While the Supreme Court has concluded that EPA is obligated to regulate greenhouse gases this administration has no intention of following the law said McCarthy who led the EPA when the Clean Power Plan was completed. They are denying it just as they are denying the science. They're using stall tactics to defer action ignoring the courts and the demands of the American people. Industry groups cheered the planned repeal saying it would reverse regulatory overreach by Obama and McCarthy. The Clean Power Plan represented an unlawful attempt to transform the nation's power grid ... and raise costs on American consumers said Hal Quinn president and CEO of the National Mining Association. The Obama era plan would have sharply reduced the number of coal fired plants making the grid more vulnerable to reliability concerns and increasing costs with trivial environmental benefits Quinn said. The new plan will save an estimated 240 million tons of annual coal production and safeguard more than 27000 mining jobs and almost 100000 additional jobs throughout the supply chain he said. In the leaked document the Trump administration argues that repealing the Clean Power Plan could spare an estimated 33 billion in compliance costs in 2030 arguing that the Obama administration overstated the rule's potential health benefits. Previously the EPA had estimated that by 2030 the Clean Power Plan would prevent 90000 asthma attacks and up to 3600 premature deaths a year. The leaked document casts doubts on those numbers and says the EPA plans to perform updated modeling and analysis of health benefits and other impacts of the rule. Liz Perera climate policy director for the Sierra Club said repealing the Clean Power Plan is about one thing and one thing only helping corporate polluters profit.	True	False	False	True	False
Trump's EPA Plans To Ease Carbon Emissions Rule For New Coal Plants The Trump administration plans to eliminate an Obama era requirement that new coal fired power plants have expensive technology to capture carbon dioxide emissions. This latest administration effort to boost fossil fuel industries comes as leaders from nearly 200 countries are meeting in Poland to discuss how to keep greenhouse gasses out of the atmosphere. And amid reports that CO2 emissions are rising again as well as the administration's own report that climate change is causing more severe weather more frequently and could eventually hurt the U.S. economy. The Environmental Protection Agency proposal would revise its New Source Performance Standards for coal power plants allowing coal fired generators to emit more CO2 per megawatt hour of electricity generated. This would ease an Obama era rule that was a central target in critics' accusations of a war on coal. The coal industry argues the existing Obama administration requirements made it all but impossible to build new coal power plants by requiring costly technologies such as carbon capture and storage. EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler a former coal industry lobbyist echoed that argument in announcing the proposed rule change. By replacing onerous regulations with high yet achievable standards we can continue America's historic energy production keep energy prices affordable and encourage new investments in cutting edge technology that can then be exported around the world said Wheeler. Environmental groups argue that in order to reduce climate change risks the world will have to stop burning coal. They blasted the EPA's announcement. This is just one more foolhardy move by a misguided administration that will be judged harshly by future generations said David Doniger senior strategic director of the Climate Clean Energy program at the Natural Resources Defense Council. Today's proposal is nothing more than another thoughtless attempt by the Trump Administration to prop up their backwards and false narrative about reviving coal at the expense of science public safety and reality said Mary Anne Hitt senior director of Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign. In fact it's not at all clear if the change would help the ailing coal industry. In recent years it has stopped building new plants and been shutting down old ones instead. The federal Energy Information Administration reports U.S. coal consumption has declined over the last decade and this year is expected to be at its lowest level in 39 years. Even as coal use rises in China and India coal has struggled in the U.S. to compete with cheaper electricity produced from natural gas and renewable energy. But coal industry officials believe this rule change will still help. It does appear that this proposal would make it feasible for new coal plants to be a viable option in the future in the United States says Michelle Bloodworth president and CEO of the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity. This is the latest in a series of efforts the Trump administration has taken to help the coal business. Previous actions include relaxing Obama era regulations on carbon emissions and mercury emissions as well as rolling back existing regulations that govern coal ash. The EPA will collect public comments on the proposal for 60 days and plans to hold a public hearing on the proposed rule change.	True	True	False	True	True
This week President Donald Trump was to meet with senior administration officials to discuss the deal and whether the United States should withdraw from it. The meeting was postponed indefinitely and with key Trump advisers divided over the issue it is still uncertain what Trump will finally do about the accord. But advocates of greater federal regulations to address climate change are already expressing dismay about the administration's stance. It's no secret that Trump has called climate change a hoax in the past. Last month he signed an executive order rolling back Obama era climate regulations which will initiate a review of the Clean Power Plan an effort to cut carbon dioxide emissions that Obama started. And Trump's pick to run the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt has made it clear addressing climate change will not be an urgent priority for the agency under his watch declining to say after his confirmation whether he would forbid EPA scientists from studying the human connection to the issue. We have many priorities at the agency. We must focus on those he told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on The Situation Room in February rattling off other needs such as improving air quality. He declined to answer repeated questions as to whether he would allow climate change research. It's a shame for us to lose our leadership position said Christine Todd Whitman the EPA administrator during the George W. Bush administration. We are an extraordinarily innovative capable nation. We can come up with better ways to provide power to people and still keep jobs. This idea that environmental protection and economic growth are contrary are just wrong and we've proven that over the years as we have reduced the pollutants in the air increased the population increased our energy demand and watched our GDP more than double. We've seen we can do this Whitman continued. We've done it in the past we can do it again. We can't have a thriving economy if you don't have a healthy clean environment. Adam Koniuszewski project leader of the Gorbachev Climate Change Task Force a think tank that focuses on global challenges posed by climate change agreed with Whitman. President Trump has an America First policy he said. But in terms of climate leadership it is exactly the opposite. Promoting a coal or fossil fuel based economy will in reality leave America last in terms of a low carbon economy in the 21st century. China is already taking the lead when it comes to renewable energy both solar and wind power. America must look forward to and innovate for 21st century solutions. An emphasis on coal and the energy sources that propelled the industrial revolution is like returning to the Stone Age. Trump's executive order also lifts the moratorium on coal mining on federal lands something that William Becker executive director of the Presidential Climate Action Project called a cruel political stunt designed to rally the support of coal miners but which won't bring back many jobs. What we need to do is make sure the transition to clean energy which is inevitable is a just and fair transition one that helps coal dependent communities and workers make transitions into other kinds of jobs Becker said. There's plenty to do out there including environmental restoration positions he said. Coal jobs are not going to come back. There may be a little surge in them but not much. It's technology or mechanization that's cost most of the jobs this past century in the coal industry. And now of course it's coal's inability to compete with natural gas on price for power generation. The market conditions are what's causing the coal industry to decline and there's not much the President can do to reverse that trend. Trump has proposed massive cuts at the EPA which Whitman believes is going to imperil its mission going forward. The EPA can't survive with 31 cuts to the budget she said. That's going to really make it impossible for the agency to continue its mission which is to protect public health and the environment.	True	True	False	True	False
James Ooker Eskridge is the mayor of a town on an island disappearing in the Chesapeake Bay but rather than see it as evidence of global warming he used it to shut down Al Gores narrative that the seas are rising because of climate change. Eskridge faced the climate warming alarmist during a CNN town hall on global warming. Im a commercial crabber Eskridge said and Ive been working the Chesapeake Bay for 50 plus years. And I have a crab house business out on the water. And water level is the same as it was when the place was built in 1970. Im not a scientist but Im a keen observer and if sea level rises are occurring he asked why am I not seeing signs of it? Our island is disappearing he explained but its because of erosion and not because of sea level rising unless we get a seawall we will lose our island. But back to the question he said why am I not seeing signs of the sea level rising? What do you think the erosion is due to mayor? Gore asked. So youre losing the island even though the waves havent increased Gore said. Yes Eskridge replied his erosion has been going on since Captain John Smith discovered the island. Well arguments about science arent necessarily going to be any comfort to you and Im sorry for what youre going through Gore said. It wont necessarily do you any good for me to tell you that the scientists do say that the sea level is rising in the Chesapeake Bay he continued and that youve lost about two thirds of your island already over a longer period of time. And the forecast for the future is another two feet of sea if there was another two feet of sea level rise what would that mean for Tangier Island? Tangier Island our elevation is only about 4feet above level Eskridge said and if I see sea level rise occurring Ill shout it from the housetops we dont have you know the land to give up. But Im just not seeing it he said. Eskridges plight to save his island reached mainstream media attention when President Donald Trump called him after seeing a CNN report about the disappearing islands Trump supporting mayor. Trump reportedly told him to not worry about his island and that it would be there for many hundreds of years more. It wasnt clear if he addressed the seawall construction to save the island. Gore is currently making the rounds to publicize the sequel to his global climate documentary An Inconvenient Truth. Recentlyhe said that the global warming fight was in the same vein as great moral causes of humanity in the past like the Civil Rights cause of the 60s and abolition.	True	False	False	True	False
The study by a team of geographers and archaeologists from UCL and King's College London published in Nature Communications suggests that early pastoralists in North Africa combined detailed knowledge of the environment with newly domesticated species to deal with the long term drying trend. It is thought that early pastoralists in North Africa developed intricate ways to efficiently manage sparse vegetation and relatively dry and low fertility soils. Dr. Chris Brierley UCL Geography lead author said The possibility that humans could have had a stabilising influence on the environment has significant implications. We contest the common narrative that past human environment interactions must always be one of over exploitation and degradation. The fact that societies practising 'pastoralism' persisted in this region for so long and invested both economically and ideologically in the local landscape does not support the scenario of over exploitation. Our study shows that increasing human population and sustainable pastoralism did not accelerateand may even have delayedthe decline of the 'Green Sahara'. Around 8000 years ago the Sahara wasn't desert but instead was a vibrant ecosystem that supported hunter gatherers and fisherfolk. The 'Green Sahara' the colloquial term for the African Humid Period was the period in which North Africa became much wetter than it is today thanks to a series of monsoons. As the Earth's orbit slowly changed the rain started to reduce and the vegetation started to die back. Around 5500 years ago the ecosystem in the Sahara went into a terminal decline towards the desert we have today. Pastoralism nomadic or semi nomadic cattle herders blossomed in the Sahara from around 1000 years before that collapse. Previous studies have put the blame for the collapse of the 'Green Sahara' onto these nomads who have often been marginalised in history but this latest studies dispels that myth. The study uses a novel climate vegetation model to determine whether the end of the African Humid Period occurred earlier than expected. The model keeps track of variables such as vegetation and rainfall and other processes such as the amount of energy coming from the sun and the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. The model found that the 'Green Sahara' should have collapsed earlier than it did. This suggests that pastoralists lasted longer than expected and the techniques they used helped them to adapt to the environmental changes. Dr. Brierley added Those places where pastoralists last longer are where there are more resources. It's a good adaptation to the climate change taking place at the time. There is now work today looking at what we can learn from nomadic pastoralists such as selective grazing strategies which can be applied to sustainable adaption to desertification that we expect from future climate change. Dr. Katie Manning King's College London concluded Despite the largely inhospitable conditions of the Sahara today it is not hard to find evidence of human occupation from the last 11000 years. Thousands of rock art sites illustrate a lush environment large game hunting and livestock herding. The spread of domestic animals across the Sahara occurred at a time of increasing climatic instability and yet these pastoralist populations thrived. It is likely that strategies used by contemporary traditional herders such as seasonal movement and selective grazing were also used by these early pastoralists helping to maintain an otherwise deteriorating ecosystem. Explore further Did humans create the Sahara Desert?	False	True	False	True	True
Freshman Democrat Alexandria Ocasio Cortez has some lofty goals for herself and for America with the benefits definitelymore geared to benefit her. Meanwhile her plans for us are incredibly costly and not just because shes pushing a failed economic system for us to operate under. Ocasio Cortezs Green New Deal as Fox News highlighted on Tuesday is unprecedentedly expensive. The plan involves completely removing any and all uses of fossil fuels within America and moving to 100 percent renewable energy. The New York Democrat says the plan will take ten years. The cost of this ten year plan?7 trillion. As Ive highlighted previously the plan is beyond bad. Not onlywould it indebt us to Russia and China who hold the vast majority of the rare earth materials needed to build the tidal wave of renewable energy devices wed need to keep up with the nations energy needs but the wind farms tidal generators and solar farms have proven to be more deadly to the environment than oil spills. Hundreds of thousands of birds many of them protected species die at the hands of wind turbines yearly. Tidal generators beach whales with such frequency that if it were a Republican backed project environmental groups would be having conniptionfits and endless marches. Still Ocasio Cortez believes that if this plan gets put into action itll solve every problem under the sun including racism and bigotry. Whats more the young democratic socialist proclaims that if we dont do it then were all going to die in 12 years. When pie in the sky thinking meets end of times conspiracy theories we get something like this. A scenario where were all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed. All we have to do is give up our common sense.	False	True	False	True	False
A coalition of states filed a legal challenge Wednesday against the Trump administrations decision to roll back a slew of Obama era climate regulations. The legal motion comes after Trump signed an executive order targeting climate change regulations ushered in by former President Barack Obama.The New York led group of states argue Trumps Environmental Protections Agency has a legal obligation to regulate emissions some climate scientists believe contribute to global warming. The law is clear the EPA must limit carbon pollution from power plants New York Attorney General EricSchneiderman who is leading the legal challengesaid in a statement.Other statesbehind the challenge include California Delaware Maryland and Massachusetts. The motion asks the District of Columbia U.S. Court of Appeals to toss out a request fromthe Trump administration for a delay in the court proceedings on an Obama era policy known as the Clean Power Plan. Trumps executive order was largely aimed at halting the Clean Power Plan whichrequired states to slash carbon dioxide emissions from coal power plants. The plan was never implemented however because it was challenged in court by 26 Republican led states. The Trump administrationsays this and other Obama era rules hinder the American economy and create a stultifying business environment. The coalition of states argued in a statement the delay would waste the substantial resources already expended in this litigation according to a statement from the group. Schneiderman hired Howard Master a prosecutor who served under an Obama appointed U.S. attorney to focus on corruption cases involving the Trump administration.Masters primary responsibility according to Schneidermans office will be investigating and possibly prosecuting the Trump administration for possible civil rights abuses. Schneidermans decision to hire Master may indicate the crusading AG plans to flood Trump and his administration with legal filings subpoenas and lawsuitsThe Wall Street Journal reported. Master will be working on a wide range of civil and criminal investigations and enforcement matters including public corruption complex civil litigation Eric Soufer a spokesman for Schneiderman told WSJ. Schneidermanhas made fighting what he calls man made global warming a crucial part of his duties as New Yorkstop law office. Hehas engaged in a months long investigation into whether Exxon Mobilillegally hid internal climate research from the public and shareholders. The Democrat based the bulk of his probes on research from left leading media outlets many of which receive funding from wealthy environmental groups. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	True	False	False	False	False
Newly released emails show senior Environmental Protection Agency officials working closely with a conservative group that dismisses climate change to rally like minded people for public hearings on science and global warming counter negative news coverage and tout Scott Pruitts stewardship of the agency. John Konkus EPAs deputy associate administrator for public affairs repeatedly reached out to senior staffers at the Heartland Institute according to the emails. If you send a list we will make sure an invitation is sent Konkus wrote to the then Heartland president Joseph Bast in May 2017 seeking suggestions on scientists and economists the EPA could invite to an annual EPA public hearing on the agencys science standards. Follow up emails show Konkus and the Heartland Institute mustering scores of potential invitees known for rejecting scientific warnings of human caused climate change including from groups such as Plants Need CO2 The Right Climate Stuff and Junk Science. The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency especially when it comes to climate changing carbon emissions. They were obtained by the Environmental Defence Fund and the Southern Environmental Law Centre which sued to enforce a Freedom of Information request. The EPA maintains close working relationships with a broad range of public and private groups and Heartland is just one of many the agency engages with to ensure the public is informed said the EPA spokesman Lincoln Ferguson. It demonstrates the agencys dedication to advancing President Trumps agenda of environmental stewardship and regulatory certainty he said. The public hearing referred to in the May 2017 email was cancelled when the EPA official who runs it fell ill the EPA said. But Bast contended in an email sent to EPA staffers and others that the official called off the hearing after learning that climate change sceptics planned to attend. The Heartland Institute calls itself a leading free market thinktank. It rejects decades of science saying fossil fuel emissions are altering the climate and says on its website that curbing use of petroleum and coal to fight climate change would squander one of Americas greatest comparative advantages among the worlds nations. Of course The Heartland Institute has been working with EPA on policy and personnel decisions Tim Huelskamp a former Kansas Republican congressman who now leads the group said in a statement. They recognised us as the pre eminent organisation opposing the radical climate alarmism agenda and instead promoting sound science and policy Huelskamp wrote. He said Heartland would continue to help Pruitt and his staff. Ferguson said Pruitt and his top officials had also met with groups known for their campaigns against climate changing emissions and pollutants from fossil fuels including the Moms Clean Air Force the American Lung Association and others. But Ben Levitan of the Environmental Defence Fund said mainstream climate change groups have received nothing like the outreach and invitations that Heartland and other hard right groups have been getting. Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a not for profit group promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform. An email last February shows Bast forwarded to followers an email with the line From the White House rallying activists to public hearings the EPA was then holding around the country on repealing an Obama era power plan meant to curb fossil fuel emissions. The email is signed by a Pruitt political appointee and gives the name of another EPA official for activists to call. Its not clear from the email however who initiated the attempt to rally conservatives for the public hearing. The Washington Post reported in September that Konkus had been scrutinising grant applications for mentions of climate change which he reportedly calls the double C word. Emails show he and former EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman repeatedly reached out to Heartland to talk over critical coverage by the Post. Lakely the Heartland spokesman responded that he had shared the article with colleagues asking them to jump to your aide sic and defend this position. And an email from Bast shared with EPA staffers and others shows the then Heartland president celebrating news that a reporter Justin Gillis was leaving the New York Times. Ding Dong the Witch is Dead. Still waiting for Chris Mooney and Juliet Eilperin at the WaPo and Seth Borenstein at AP to flame out Bast writes.	True	False	False	True	True
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke suggested that climate change may have a role in the recent wildfires that have ravaged California. When asked by CBS News reporter Weijia Jiang whether he accepted that climate change was part of the problem Zinke said of course. He also acknowledged that temperatures are rising. However Zinke also reiterated an argument that he made earlier this week blaming environmental groups for preventing dead trees from being cleared due to their opposition to the logging industry. The only endangered species happens to be a logger Zinke said. Earlier this week Zinke blamed environmental terrorist groups for California's destructive wildfires in an interview with Breitbart Radio. We have been held hostage by these environmental terrorist groups that have not allowed public access that have refused to allow the harvest of timber Zinke told Breitbart Monday. On Sunday Zinke said that the wildfires had nothing to do with climate change in an interview with local news station KCRA TV. He suggested that environmental groups had prevented timber salvage operations meaning that forests could not be cleared of flammable detritus. I've heard the climate change argument back and forth. This has nothing to do with climate change. This has to do with active forest management Zinke said. President Trump tweeted earlier in August that California wildfires were made so much worse by bad environmental laws and called for clearing trees to prevent fires. The Mendocino Complex Fire north of San Francisco is the largest wildfire in state history and has scorched over 400 square miles. More than 14000 firefighters are responding to over a dozen major blazes throughout California.	True	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON The Senate on Thursday confirmed former coal industry lobbyist Andrew Wheeler to lead the Environmental Protection Agency despite concerns by Democrats and one Republican about regulatory rollbacks hes made in eight months as the agencys acting chief. Senators voted 52 47 to confirm Wheeler who was nominated by President Donald Trump after former administrator Scott Pruitt resigned last year amid a series of ethics allegations. Sen. John Barrasso R Wyo. chairman of the Senate environment committee called Wheeler uniquely qualified to lead EPA and said that under Wheeler the agency is putting forward proposals that both protect our environment and allow the countrys economy to flourish. But Sen. Tom Udall D N.M. said Wheeler was failing to protect the environment and human health and was nominated to unravel and undo the environmental protections that are now in place. Wheeler 54 was confirmed as deputy administrator last April and became acting chief in July after Pruitt resigned. He worked at the EPA early in his career and was a top aide at the Senate Environment Committee before becoming a lobbyist a decade ago. Maine Sen. Susan Collins was the sole Republican to oppose Wheeler. She said in a statement that unlike Pruitt Wheeler understands the mission of the EPA and acts in accordance with ethical standards. However the policies he has supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation. Collins said she was particularly concerned that EPA has proposed to roll back rules regulating mercury emissions from power plants and moved to replace the Clean Power Plan former President Barack Obamas signature proposal to combat climate change. There is no doubt that the greenhouse gas emissions driving climate change pose a significant threat to Maine and the nation Collins said adding that pollution from coal fired power plants threatens Maines natural resources from our working forests fishing and agricultural industries to tourism and recreation. VIDEO At his confirmation hearing in January Wheeler told lawmakers that climate change is a huge issue but not the greatest crisis. Video by PBS NewsHour Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia who supported Wheelers nomination as deputy last year voted against his promotion. Wheeler was not making meaningful progress on clean water standards Manchin said citing the agencys failure to limit the amount of highly toxic chemicals contaminating drinking water in West Virginia and around the country. The EPA has announced plans to place legal limits on the chemicals but has not yet done so. The perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances known collectively as PFAS have been linked to health threats ranging from cancer to decreased fertility. I believe immediate action must be taken and these efforts lack a sense of urgency Manchin said. Like Collins Manchin also said he was concerned at EPAs attempt to undo rules designed to limit emissions of mercury which can damage the brains of infants and young children. Environmental groups meanwhile slammed Wheeler saying that while his behavior is less cartoonish than Pruitt he supports the same policies. Wheeler wants to turn the EPA into a wish granting service for polluters no matter the cost to public health or wildlife. But its only a matter of time before his dirty dealings land him in the same trash heap as his predecessor said Emily Knobbe EPA policy specialist at the Center for Biological Diversity an Arizona based environmental group. Americas Power a trade group that represents coal producers applauded Wheelers confirmation. During his time as acting administrator Andrew Wheeler has been seen as a thoughtful leader who understands the need for sensible environmental policies said Michelle Bloodworth the groups president and CEO. Wheelers long experience in public service demonstrates his integrity in serving EPAs mission she said. READ MORE EPA announces plan for dealing with toxic chemicals in water announces plan for dealing with toxic chemicals in water 	True	True	False	True	False
Jellyfish numbers have been increasing rapidly in the Mediterranean and one species that has long been a hazard for bathers there the mauve stinger is increasingly being seen around the British Isles. Now one marine biologist says if we can't beat them we should eat them. I'm hovering in a makeshift kitchen watching one of Italy's most eminent marine biologists gleefully playing chef. Prof Silvio Greco is focused on the bubbling contents of a large pot. Dressed up for the part in chef's whites traditional hat and red apron the sustainable conservation expert is perfect for the role. In this water I have put lemon juice and vinegar. After boiling for a few minutes I will plunge it into this ice he gestures explaining how the hot water both sterilises getting rid of bacteria and destroys the stinging poison. What for some might be food hell has got my tastebuds jumping with curious excitement we're about to eat jellyfish. For Greco it's not the first time. I love seafood he beams. Jellyfish remind me of oysters. When you eat them you experience an explosion of the sea on your tongue. They are after all 90 seawater. Today he's enlisted the professional help of restaurant chef Marco Visciola who confesses he's never cooked jellyfish before. He's going to fry it in a tempura batter made of potato wheat and rice flours mixed with sparkling water. No salt? I ask. Zero he tells me. The jellyfish already has the salty flavour of the sea so to bring out its flavour I've left the batter neutral. This isn't some perverse chef's challenge but part of a campaign that Greco is promoting at the Slow Fish festival. Held every two years at Genoa's porto antico the event encourages sustainable fishing and responsible consumption. There are at least four times as many jellyfish in the Mediterranean now as there were in 2004 with global climate change pollution and overfishing mostly to blame. And the message this cooking demo is sending out is if you can't defeat them eat them. The sea is full of them and it's a big problem for biodiversity says Silvio Greco describing jellyfish as rampant opportunistic species that immediately take over any empty space in the water. He explains how their spread is devastating marine food chains and ecosystems and how illegal fishing of natural jellyfish predators like tuna and turtles has left the coast clear for them to multiply. Now man he concludes must be the new predator of jellyfish. It's an idea the UN's Food and Agriculture Organization is encouraging too. For years fishermen have been finding their nets increasingly burdened with unwanted jellyfish that they simply throw back into the sea. Silvio Greco hopes this will change and says that sustainability aside jellyfish is actually good for you rich in protein and collagen low in calories and fat free. At Slow Fish I discover the eat it to beat it approach isn't limited to the Mediterranean. There's a Caribbean delegation of fishers researchers and marine biologists here to pool ideas on how to fight their worst invasive species the lionfish. They are trying to get it on to menus from Mexico to Honduras Costa Rica to Barbados. Its tender meat which apparently tastes like snapper certainly sounds more appetising than jellyfish. But the jellyfish cooking demo is without a doubt the biggest crowd puller of the entire festival. As the tray of fresh medusa fritta is passed around eager fingers grab the piping hot morsels. I select my piece. The tempura is exquisite cracking seductively between my teeth. I'd expected the jellyfish to be chewy like calamari but it's squidgier. It might just be because I'm hungry but I really like it. A young woman exclaims it's surprisingly nice while a Taiwanese lady tells me jellyfish is a common antipasto back home and she was curious to see what the Italians would do with it. The man beside me is unimpressed. The batter's nice but the jellyfish tastes of nothing and it's slippery he grumbles. I ask a three year old what she thinks. Yummy or yucky? Yummy! she grins at me chewing happily. She was probably hungry too. Marco Visciola has also made a boiled jellyfish salad with rice vinegar sesame oil carrot and cucumber a traditional recipe a Japanese colleague gave him. Again I'm impressed although I think jellyfish's neutral taste or lack of taste could lend itself to any decisive flavours. But Marco's sold. For me it was a new experience and there were a lot of curious people he enthuses adding that he now plans to put locally caught jellyfish on his restaurant's summer menu. It's a novelty a chef can offers diners. I think it will become popular. I'm not entirely convinced. But if you never want another seaside holiday to be ruined by a coastal jellyfish invasion perhaps it really is time to stop fretting and start frying. Join the conversation find us on Facebook Instagram Snapchat and Twitter.	True	False	False	True	True
In his five months as EPA Administrator former Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt is an aggregating impeachable offense ever giving fuller meaning to Alexander Hamiltons Federalist 65 elaboration of what constitutes high crimes and misdemeanors to wit Impeachable offenses arise from the abuse or violation of some public trust and relate chiefly to injuries done immediately to the society itself. Riding into office on the back of 14 lawsuits he filed against the EPA Pruitt took his oath of office to uphold the laws of the land and promptly proceeded to do just the opposite. Using the mantra of states rights as his corporate fig leaf and wildly accusing EPA scientists of being unscientific he has moved to undo delay or otherwise block more than 30 environmental rules according to the July 1 2017 New York Times. His tenure thus far at the EPA is the stuff of corporate wish lists meeting privately with the worst industrial perpetrators of silent violence charitably described as pollution and huddling with industry lobbyists and corporate lawyers who are eager for Pruitt to dismantle his own agency the federal manager of environmental violence to air water soil and food. Mr. Pruitt makes himself vulnerable with all the ex parte contacts and corporate advisors to many serious offenses including a violation of the procedures of the Federal Advisory Committee Act b conflict of interest rules c violation of both criminal and civil laws by the overreaching industry lobbyists who constitute Pruitts tight cadre of clenched jawed political appointees. History provides precedents of how the boundless zealotry of new wrecking crews ultimately leads to self inflicted wounds and scandals. Republicans in the House of Representatives are quite familiar with trying to impeach a civil officer. For many months prior to the November election they were hounding with baseless impeachment threats John Koskinen then director of the IRS and one of the most honorable civil servants in a generation. So fervid and ill tempered was their partisan zeal that they also took it out on the IRSs budget already lower than it was several years earlier and cut it further to the bone. This fulminating vendetta widely reported has led to millions of taxpayers waiting on the phone with the IRS to get served or not be served at all. Most ironically the Republicans assured that the woefully understaffed IRS could collect even less of the estimated 350 billion in annual unpaid taxes thereby expanding the federal deficit they so often decry for political expediency. Pruitt like most captured corporatists has ignored the objections to his policies from the 15000 employees of the EPA hoping that many will leave the agency and further weaken the environmental health and safety efforts that he abhors. He doesnt want them around because he cannot rebut their scientific arguments for retaining existing standards which would protect our environment from deadly toxins. He is also hostile to the precautionary principle which shifts the burden of proof to the progenitors of new chemical or particulate or gas into the environment. When you go through the list of health standards slated for Pruitts abolition you wonder whether there are any limits to his cold blooded corporatized agenda. So extreme is his corporate ardor that there will undoubtedly be lawless actions coming from his precipitous acts which he rightly believes will not be subject to restraint from the Trump White House or the Republican controlled Congress. Pruitts fevered mind thinks like this Climate change is a hoax. Methane gas which is 40 times more harmful to global warming than carbon dioxide should not be subject to the modest Obama era required disclosures. The industries that are most responsible for pollution should be in charge of their own enforcement. The EPAs already grossly inadequate budget should be cut further. Attempts to curb pollution in our air and waterways should be revoked. Pesticides like chlorpyrifos found to be dangerous after years of study should be pushed back for reconsideration in short to be shelved. Rules on methane leaks from drilling oil and gas wells should be obstructed through delays or revision. Pruitt had a private meeting with corporate lobbyists at Trump International Hotel which is a venue for recurring violations of the Emoluments Clause due to its Trump enriching expenditures by foreign interests. Thats when you know that the officious Pruitt doesnt even care about appearances much less the perils of lawless and secretive influence peddling that enriches President Trumps investments. Members of Congress Democratic and Republican must ensure accountability for this rogue administrator. Take close note of his non compliance with the Administrative Procedure Act and keep in mind that political ideologies will not protect your children or vulnerable relatives and friends form environmental toxins. Conservative lungs and other bodily organs are as vulnerable to pollution bred terminal ailments and the violent effects of climate change as their liberal counterparts. Lets be clear about what is at issue here. Pruitt is extinguishing life saving and disease preventing health standards that were vetted in open procedures that were open to input by the commercial interested affected which usually leads to diluting the final regulation and which have solid scientific basis to protect vulnerable populations. Consequently Pruitts rollbacks suspensions or delays if allowed to persist and expand will lead loss and deprivation of American lives including children the future of our country thereby increasing healthcare costs family anguish and other disruptions of life liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Pruitt and his cohorts are a clear and present danger to America. He will demonstrate in the coming weeks and months how deserving he is of impeachment in the House of Representatives and conviction in the U.S. Senate. That is if he doesnt resign or be forced to resign due to his own cruelty recklessness and running afoul of the law.	False	False	True	True	False
Speakers included 350.org founder Bill McKibben The Green Collar Economy author Van Jones activist and Big Little Lies star Shailene Woodley climate scientist Brenda Ekwurzel activist and musician Xiuhtezcatl Martinezand MayorDale Rossof deep red Georgetown Texas whose pragmatic embrace of newly cheap renewable energy has made him a poster boy for how Republicans could quit climate change denialism. Rep. elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. who has made championing a so called Green New Deal her first priority since arriving in Washington emerged as the fiercest voice on the panel Monday. This is going to be the Great Society the moon shot the civil rights movement of our generation she said. That is the scale of the ambition that this movement is going to require. In the 2016 presidential election Sanders staked out the most ambitious climate platform of any candidate vowing to slash carbon dioxide pollution 40 percent by 2030 end fossil fuel subsidies and ban fracking. Despite stark policy differences with his chief rival in the primaries former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton supported fracking and raisedtwice as much from the oil and gas industryas her Republican opponent climate change remained a policy backwater in the election.	False	True	True	True	True
Environmental concerns are real but the planet still will be here in twelve years. Imagine theres a movie about a meteor heading toward Earth. It will be here in twelve years. Following Hollywood convention once you got past the part where the maverick scientist or precocious kid discovering it struggles to convince the world about the threat youd expect the president or the military to leap into action. Congress is usually left out of such plots but its not a stretch to imagine that Congress would race to authorize a plan to send astronauts into space to prevent Armageddon or a planetary deep impact. If you dont believe me I refer you to the movies Armageddon and Deep Impact. The initial rollout of the Green New Deal a sweeping proposal to overhaul the U.S. economy and taken seriously society itself was supposed to follow a script like this. The United Nations opened the bidding by announcing last year that we had twelve years to keep the pace of climate change from accelerating too fast to contain the damage. Like a high school game of telephone this quickly became a blanket statement that we have twelve years to save the planet. Climate change is a real concern but if we did absolutely nothing to stop it the planet would still be here in a dozen years. So would the human race and many other living things. In fact if America did virtually everything the Green New Dealers propose global emissions of greenhouse gases wouldnt change that much unless China India Russia and all the African nations followed suit. There are people who nonetheless believe that climate change is a world threatening calamity and that exaggeration is a necessary tool to galvanize public opinion. If you Google the phrase twelve years to save the planet youll find people who think its literally true. The problem is that weve heard these things before. In 1989 a U.N. official predicted entire nations could be wiped off the face of the Earth by rising sea levels if the global warming trend is not reversed by the year 2000. In 2008 Al Gore warned that the northern polar ice cap could be gone in five years. Melting polar ice is something to worry about but its not gone. The reasons this is a political problem for climate change warriors should be obvious. First they are their own worst enemy when it comes to maintaining credibility. By working on the theory that they have to scare the bejeebus out of the public they made it easy for people to dismiss them when their Chicken Little prophecies didnt materialize. Another problem which compounds the first is that they get greedy. Working on the premise that a crisis is a terrible thing to waste progressives have a long record of trying to throw other items on their wish list into the anti climate change shopping cart. The Green New Deal as presented by Representative Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D. N.Y. includes high quality health care for everyone guaranteed jobs paid vacations a living wage and retirement security. Indeed its worth remembering that environmentalists targeted the fossil fuel industry for early retirement long before concerns about global warming were on the agenda. The anti oil campaign began with the Santa Barbara oil spill in 1969 back when concerns about another ice age were still taken seriously. You can believe that climate change is a real problem and also be forgiven for thinking progressives are trying to pull a fast one. This is especially so when you consider that proponents of the GND also favor phasing out nuclear power which could provide vastly more electricity than wind or solar and more efficiently. Which gets me back to where I started. Imagine there was a movie about an incoming meteor that could be stopped only with a nuclear warhead and the heroes insisted that nuclear weapons are just too icky to use even to save the planet. Audiences would scratch their heads. They might also think they missed a crucial plot point if the protagonists proposed a sweeping government effort to stop the meteor and then when given the opportunity to vote for it voted present in protest. Thats similar to what happened this week. Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell brought the Green New Deal to the floor for a vote and Democrats refused to vote for it. Instead they harangued McConnell for pulling a stunt. They were right. It was a stunt. But sometimes it takes a stunt to expose an even bigger one.	True	True	True	True	False
A federal judge blocked construction on the Keystone XL pipeline on Thursday. In a 54 page decision Judge Brian Morris of the U.S. District Court in Montana granted an injunction to the Indigenous Environmental Network and Northern Plains Resource Council against the U.S. State Department the TransCanada Keystone Pipeline and the TransCanada Corporation. TransCanada is blocked from engaging in any activity in furtherance of the construction or operation of Keystone and associated facilities until the State Department can confirm that doing so would not violate the Administrative Procedure Act or the National Environmental Policy Act. Morris had ruled in August that the State Department had to reach a conclusion on the environmental impacts of the pipeline but determined Thursday that the departments analysis had left out information he considered to be crucial.He also accused the State Department of usingoutdated information about potential environmental impacts instead ofthe best scientific and commercial data available. These omissions require a remand with instructions to the Department to satisfy its obligations under NEPA Morris wrote. In its initial report the State Department had said that any climate related impacts from the pipeline would prove inconsequential. However Morris argued that the department had not given areasoned explanation for how it came to this conclusion. TransCanada has claimed that the pipeline would result in few oil spills by decreasing the amount of oil being transported by rail and lower greenhouse gas emissions by lowering the amount of oil being transported by ocean tanker. If constructed the Keystone XL Pipeline would stretch from Hardisty Alberta to Nebraska where it would connect to an existing pipeline going to the Gulf Coast. In November 2015 former President Barack Obamas administration blocked the pipelines construction citing potential environmental impact. Two days after taking office President Donald Trump signed an executive order reauthorizing the pipeline.	False	False	False	True	False
Rocks from northern Labrador have been found to contain the oldest known evidence of life on Earth. Graphite a form of pure carbon found in the 3.95 billion year old rocks shows the geochemical signature of having come from the decomposition of living organisms researchers report in a new study published today in Nature. That's at least 150 million years older than the oldest graphite from living organisms previously found in 3.7 billion to 3.8 billion year old rocks in Greenland and northern Quebec. It's also not much more than 500 million years after the Earth formed about 4.5 billion years ago. Some of the signatures in the Labrador rocks suggests that the organisms that left them were autotrophic that is they could produce their own food from chemicals in their environment as algae and some kinds of bacteria do report researchers led by Takayuki Tashiro and Tsuyoshi Komiya at the University of Tokyo. The discovery suggests not only that there may have been life but there may have been abundant enough life that you could get carbon rich sediments said Beth Ann Bell a geochemist at the University of California Los Angeles who was not involved in the study but called the findings pretty cool. It adds to evidence that the Earth at that time had surface water and other conditions to support life and wasn't as hot and as inhospitable as scientists used to think said Daniele Pinti a geochemist at the University of Quebec at Montreal. He was also not involved in the study but supervised one of the co authors Pauline Mjean during her PhD in Canada. Pinti said that researchers have been increasingly interested in the rocks of the Uivak Gneiss in the Saglek Block of northern Labrador in recent years because they contain some of the oldest rocks on the surface of the Earth. Such old rocks are very rare because the Earth's crust is constantly being recycled back into the planet's interior through a process called plate tectonics. The Labrador rocks are likely a small patch that remains from a very ancient continent Pinti said It's a very special place. Because such rocks are so rare very little is known about the Earth at that time although it's known that the interior of the Earth was much hotter than it is now and there is some evidence of liquid water on the surface. Were there ponds? Were there oceans? That's uncertain Bell said. What makes the Labrador rocks particularly special is that they are the oldest known metasedimentary rocks in the world. That is they were originally formed from sediments deposited by water the type of environment that decaying organic remains often end up in said Bell. The meta part of the word indicates that the rocks have been metamorphosed or transformed by heat and pressure over time They've been cooked pretty well Bell explains. That makes them harder to analyze but not impossible. Graphite the dark substance found in pencil leads can be formed from chemical reactions of inorganic minerals such as limestone. But it can also be formed when decaying organic matter gets heated up to several hundred degrees. Scientists can tell the difference by looking at the type of carbon found in the graphite. Carbon atoms come in different isotopes or forms with different masses carbon 12 carbon 13 and carbon 14 which you may have heard of because it's used in radiocarbon dating. Carbon 12 is the most common and the kind that organisms tend to disproportionately take into their bodies. That means graphite that comes from living things tends to be lighter than graphite from inorganic sources. To figure out whether graphite came from a living or non living source researchers use instruments to compare the ratio of carbon 12 to carbon 13. Of course things get more complicated when the graphite has been exposed to heat and pressure which can change the carbon ratios. There's also the possibility that the rocks could have become contaminated in the nearly four billion years after they were formed. But the researchers took great pains to test for contamination account for the exposure to heat and pressure and extrapolate back the original ratios Pinti said. For the moment it looks very convincing he added. Pinti said one interesting thing about the carbon signature is that it can indicate not just whether the graphite came from living organisms but what kind of metabolism those organisms had. The researchers write that the ratio found in one sample provides the oldest evidence for autotrophs organisms that can produce their own food either through photosynthesis or by using inorganic compounds such as sulphur in their environment. In this case the organisms appear to use a metabolic pathwaysimilar to modern microbes that turn carbon dioxide into methane and acetate. And they say their work could be relevant to places beyond our own planet that may have harsher environments than today's Earth. The discovery will provide insight into early life not only on Earth but also on other planets.	False	True	False	True	True
The Trump administration spent time last year mulling over what its public position on climate science should be and according to a report published Wednesday by The Washington Post outrightly ignoring new research was one option that officials considered. Citing an internal memo drafted in September by President Donald Trumps then top energy and environmental aide Michael Catanzaro the Post reported that White House officials had discussed whether to consider having a firm position on and a coherent fact based message about climate science specifically whether and to what extent anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases are affecting the climate system and what level of concern that warrants. Three options were reportedly presented in the memo The first was to conduct red teamblue teamdebates to highlight uncertainties in climate data the second was to review scientific studies under the Administrative Procedure Act and the final option was to simply ignore and not seek to characterize or question the science being conducted by Federal agencies and outside entities. No formal policy ever did materialize from the memo or subsequent discussions on the issue. Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt was reportedly an advocate of holding red teamblue teamdebates to publicly critique climate science but that idea wasultimately blocked by the White House reported The New York Times in March. As the Post noted the Catanzaro memo offers a glimpse into the challenges faced by the Trump administration on the issue of climate change.While White House officials continue to publicly downplay climate data and adopt policies to expand fossil fuel production in the U.S. federal agencies have continued to publish research showing that climate change is real man made and a growing threat to the U.S. On Friday for instance the National Park Service published a report that said the effects of climate change like rising sea levels and intensifying stormscould damage park sites across the country. The reports lead researcher had earlier accused the Trump administration of attempting to censor the study by removing all mentions of human caused climate change. Ignoring the overwhelming evidence only sets us back further in addressing this serious threat said Sen. Jeanne Shaheen D N.H.. Ignore distort or censor. Those are the options the Trump White House is considering to deal with the overwhelming consensus on climate change. Unacceptable and immoral. We need a vision and a plan to not willful ignorance. Senator Jeff Merkley May 24 2018	False	True	False	True	True
Last week a federal judgedismissedNew York Citys climate change lawsuit against five major oil companies. Last month another federal judgedismissedsimilar global warming claims against oil firms brought by San Francisco and Oakland. More than a dozen climate lawsuits filed during the last year by cities and counties seek billions of dollars in damages from oil and gas companies. But it appears that all of these lawsuits will eventually be thrown out. New York Citysoughtmonetary damages from BP Chevron Conoco Phillips ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell as compensation for damage caused by dangerous global warming allegedly caused by the companies. But John F. Keenan District Court judge for the Southern District of New York disagreed and dismissed the complaint. Judge Keenanruledthat it would thus be illogical to allow the City to bring state law claims when courts have found that these matters are areas of federal concern that have been delegated to the Executive Branch as they require a uniform national solutionGlobal warming and solutions thereto must be addressed by the other two branches of government. On June 25 on the west coast US District Judge William Alsupthrewout similar suits brought by the California cities of Oakland and San Francisco. Judge Alsup stated it is true that carbon dioxide released from fossil fuels has caused and will continue to cause global warming. But against that negative we must weigh this positive Our industrial revolution and the development of our modern world have literally been fueled by oil and coal. Without those fuels virtually all of our monumental progress would have been impossible. Judge Alsup concluded that the courts should defer to the legislative and executive branches. Note that Judge Alsup is not a conservative judge. Alsup was nominated by President Bill Clinton in 1999. In January he blocked Trump Administration efforts to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals DACA program. Several other climate lawsuits arependingin California. In July of last year San Mateo County Marin County and Imperial Beach filed separate suits against 37 oil and gas companies in California Superior Court. Last December Santa Cruz and Santa Cruz County also brought suits in California Superior Court against 29 companies. In January the City of Richmond California and the County of Contra Costa also filed claims against 29 companies. Other state entities alsoinitiatedlegal action this year. In April the city of Boulder Boulder County and San Miguel County filed a suit in Colorado against Exxon and Suncor. In May King County Washington the home of Seattle filed suit against five companies. Just this month the state of Rhode Island and the City of Baltimore filed separate climate change suits against oil and gas companies. But all of these suits are likely to be thrown out. The New York City and the OaklandSan Francisco suits the lawsuits with the highest profile have now been dismissed. As Judge Alsupnotedin his opinion No plaintiff has ever succeeded in bringing a nuisance claim based on global warming. All district or appellate courts are likely to eventually rule that climate change issues are to be decided by the federal government not state and local governments. Its clear that climate lawsuits do notreflectthe will of congressional representatives elected by the American people. In December of 1998 President Bill Clinton signed the Kyoto Protocol a 1997 international treaty signed by 192 nations committing to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But the US Senate passed a resolution of disapproval with a vote of 95 0 so the treaty was never submitted to the Senate for ratification. Cap and trade legislation was rejected by Congress in 2003 2005 2007 and 2009. Last week the US House of Representativespasseda resolution opposing a carbon tax. While advocates of climate common sense are pleased with the recent court decisions the acceptance that humans are causing dangerous climate change by the oil and gas defendants is very disappointing. Evidenceshowsthat natural factors not emissions from industry dominate global temperatures. Nor are the feared climate disasters happening. Evidenceshowsthat storms droughts or floods are neither more frequent nor more severe than in past decades. Oceans are rising 7 8 inches per century not the 20 feet per centurypredictedby former Vice President Al Gore and others. And the polar bears are doing just fine. A simple example is the question of snow extent. The Boulder Colorado lawsuitallegesthat warming caused by oil companies is reducing the snowpack in Colorado mountains. While some areas have received less snow satellite data from the Rutgers University Global Snow labshowsthat both North American and Northern Hemisphere snow extent has been increasing for the last 40 years. Like most efforts to fight climate change climate lawsuits are a massive waste of taxpayer money. Cities counties and states are spending millions of dollars on futile public nuisance lawsuits that are doomed to failure. SteveGorehamis a speaker on the environment business and public policy and author of thebookOutside the Green Box Rethinking Sustainable Development. The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	True	True	False	True	False
As protesters prepare for nationwide demonstrations against Donald Trumps environmental agenda Bernie Sanders on Thursday backed legislation that would phase out the use of fossil fuels in the US by 2050. Mr President start listening to the people and the scientists not the greed of the fossil fuel industry Sanders said at a rally on Capitol Hill where he was flanked by environmental advocates and two of his Democratic colleagues Senators Jeff Merkley of Oregon who authored the bill and Ed Markey of Massachusetts. As you all know the Vermont senator and former presidential candidate told the crowd Donald Trump is wrong about a lot of things. But there is no area where he is more wrong than on the issue of climate change. Sanders added No Mr President climate change is not a hoax. Climate change is real. At the event held just outside the US Capitol Sanders Merkley and Markey unveiled legislation which seeks to completely phase out the use of fossil fuels through a transition to 100 clean and renewable energy by the middle of this century. But the bill called the 100 by 50 Act is unlikely to be considered by a Republican controlled Congress where many GOP lawmakers are still unwilling to acknowledge the science behind global warming and contribution of human activity. The partisan nature of the debate was not lost on the audience as one attendee interrupted the proceedings to ask Where are the Republicans? Were going to have to recruit those colleagues across the aisle said Merkley who ranks among the Senates most progressive voices. This is not a red or a blue issue he said. There is no excuse for failure. This is the biggest test facing human civilization and we have to respond and win this battle. Demonstrators are set to gather in Washington for the Peoples Climate March on Saturday which will also mark the 100th day of the Trump administration. Similar marches are expected in major cities across the US as part of a broader effort to oppose Trumps efforts to roll back the climate initiatives put in place by Barack Obama. The president has signaled his intentions to tear up the landmark Paris climate agreement forged by more than 195 nations in late 2015 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 26 to 28 over a decade. Trumps top aides who are split on whether or not the US should remain part of the Paris accord were scheduled to meet on Thursday afternoon to discuss the deals future. Trumps chief of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt is a vocal proponent of pulling out immediately. Trump has vowed to withdraw from the Paris agreement and has already taken steps through executive action to begin the process of overturning Obama era environmental regulations. Among them was a directive to the EPA to dismantle the Clean Power Plan one of Obamas signature climate policies to reduce carbon pollution from power plants. Trump also signed an executive order that aims to unravel the Obama rule designed to protect American waterways from pollution and proposed in his budget draconian cuts to the EPA. At the rally Markey said Trumps actions were precisely why hundreds of thousands of people felt compelled to take to the streets. Donald Trump is still saying that hes going to issue a new executive order allowing for more oil drilling on the public lands of the United States of America he said drawing jeers for the president from the crowd. That is just completely and totally unacceptable.	True	False	False	True	False
The Trump administration has proposed changes to the Endangered Species Act ESA a law credited with keeping hundreds of species from going extinct. The change would eliminate automatic protections for threatened plant and animal species and make it easier for species to be removed from the list. Wildlife conservation groups say the proposed change could have disastrous lasting effects on at risk species. Trump officials say the change will streamline the regulatory process. The proposed change is the latest in a series of White House efforts to remove environmental regulations designed to protect vulnerable species and their habitats as well as leave untouched some of America's most wild places. Environmentalist groups have reacted with outrage and the Center for Biological Diversity said these proposals would slam a wrecking ball into the most crucial protections for our most endangered wildlife. If these regulations had been in place in the 1970s the bald eagle and the grey whale would be extinct today. The Endangered Species Act was signed into law in 1973 by Republican President Richard Nixon and now protects more than 1200 plant and animal species. The list of species is maintained by US Fish and Wildlife and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration which oversees marine species. It has been credited with reviving bald eagle populations and bringing the Yellowstone grizzly bear back from the edge of extinction. Here are several species that could be affected by the change or may not currently exist if it was not for the landmark law. Experts agree that arctic sea ice which polar bears require for fishing and hunting is shrinking which is leading to enormous stresses on the world's largest bear species. The proposed change to the ESA includes a narrowing of the definition of foreseeable future. The US government says they want the language clarified to make it clear that it extends only as far as wildlife officials can reasonably determine that both the future threats and the species' response to those threats are probable. Environmentalists fear the new language will make it possible for government biologists to disregard the long term effects of climate change on the environment. The polar bear could be emblematic of many species being affected by climate change says Bob Dreher of the environmental group Defenders of Wildlife. Whether government biologists will recognise this slow acting but inevitable change in ecosystem because of climate change or wait until more evidence is available is unclear he tells the BBC. The ESA provides blanket protections to species which are categorised as either threatened such as the California gnatcatcher or endangered. Endangered species are those likely to go extinct while threatened species are those likely to become endangered. Under current law both are granted critical habitat protections but the Trump administration wants automatic protections for threatened species to be eliminated and in the future to be considered on a case by case basis. Protections for the California gnatcatcher have barred development across nearly 100000 acres of land in the Greater Los Angeles area according to the Los Angeles Times. If not for their current protections their native habitat would likely become part of more urban sprawl. The sage grouse has been a candidate for protection as a threatened species for nearly a decade but it is unclear if it will ever be added. They as well as the dunes sagebrush lizard have seen their territory encroached upon by human development and have seen decreasing populations in recent years. The distinctive sage grouse return to their breeding grounds known as Leks every year. Biologists believe some Leks can be hundreds of years old. If the sage grouse does achieve threatened status environmentalists fear under the new Trump proposal it would be too late for them to gain the broad protections they need. Although the proposed change would only affect future creatures joining the list Mr Dreher says that if the proposed rules had been in effect in the 1970s animals such as wolves and bald eagles may have been extinct by now. In a significant reversal the proposed change would eliminate language that precludes wildlife experts from considering economic impacts when determining when an organism should be listed. Wolves which were re introduced in the lower 48 states have faced criticism from ranchers and farmers who argue that they have impacted their livelihood by killing their livestock. Re introducing them to the continental US came at great cost and effort says Mr Dreher a former US Fish and Wildlife official. Mr Dreher says that the ESA was designed by Congress to say that the value of life on earth is priceless and that politicians should not have to decide whether it is too expensive to prevent extinction. If we made those decisions you can see under different administrations we would end up protecting nothing. Because who knows what a snail is worth? Who knows what a frog is worth?	True	True	True	True	False
Global warming activist Greta Thunberg has trolled President Trump after he told the teen to 'chill' and 'work on her anger management problems'. The 16 year old who was named Time magazine's 'Person of The Year' updated her Twitter bio on Thursday to read 'A teenager working on her anger management problem. Currently chilling and watching a good old fashioned movie with a friend.' Her bio was a verbatim echo of Trump's tweet about her earlier in the day in which he reacted to news that the publication had awarded the accolade to Thunberg instead of him. 'So ridiculous' the Commander in chief wrote. 'Greta must work on her Anger Management problem then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend! Chill Greta Chill!' Thousands of Twitter users rushed to applaud Thunberg after she changed her bio to mock the President. Many praised the teenager for outmaneuvering Trump on Twitter who is widely seen as one of the platform's most skillful and effective users. By lunchtime the hashtag was trending on the social media platform with one popular response reading 'A 16 year old with Asperger's and non native English speaker has better social and communications skills than the current President of the United States. And better Twitter game.' Another wrote 'Interesting how a leader that acts like a child is yelling at a child who acts like a leader'. It's not the first time Thunberg has used her Twitter bio to deftly turn Trump's attacks back around. In September Greta described herself as a 'very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future' after the President sarcastically said of her UN Speech 'She seems like a very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future. So nice to see.' Meanwhile the President insists he wasn't petty about losing out as Time magazine's person of the year. When asked Wednesday if the White House had a comment about the Commander in chief losing the honor to Thunberg White House Principal Deputy Press Secretary Hogan Gidley emailed DailyMail.com 'Huh?!?' Thunberg is the magazine's youngest ever Person of the Year a title that still sparks Internet curiosity one day each year despite the steep decline of magazine sales. The teen girl with Asperger's syndrome is the face of the youth climate movement drawing large crowds with her appearances at protests and conferences since last year. Her angry accusations that world leaders are failing the younger generation have made headlines including her shouts of 'How dare you?' during the UN General Assembly this year. An image of her staring at Donald Trump as he entered the UN quickly became a social media meme. Trump has said he doesn't believe global warming is mainly caused by humans. During the 2016 campaign he claimed it was a 'hoax' promoted by China in order to gain economic advantage over the United States. The president has since withdrawn the U.S. from the Paris Climate Treaty. Time editor in chief Edward Felsenthal told the Today show 'She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement.' Politicians have mostly praised Thunberg and her movement as an important voice of her generation. Former Vice President Al Gore said Wednesday 'Brilliant decision for to choose as its Person of the Year. 'Greta embodies the moral authority of the youth activist movement demanding that we act immediately to solve the climate crisis. She is an inspiration to me and to people across the world' Gore said. Felsenthal said Thunberg 'represents a broader generational shift in the culture' adding 'She embodies youth activism.' The magazine says 'In the 16 months since she has addressed heads of state at the U.N. met with the Pope sparred with the President of the United States and inspired 4 million people to join the global climate strike on September 20 2019 in what was the largest climate demonstration in human history.' 'For sounding the alarm about humanity's predatory relationship with the only home we have for bringing to a fragmented world a voice that transcends backgrounds and borders for showing us all what it might look like when a new generation leads Greta Thunberg is TIME's 2019 Person of the Year' the media franchise said Wednesday on its website.	True	False	False	False	False
In April for the first time ever the US produced more energy from renewable sources than from coal in a single month. According to data from the US Energy Information Administration hydroelectric dams solar panels and wind turbines generated 68.5 million megawatt hours of energy during the month of April 2019. This was compared to 60 million megawatt hours of energy produced from coal in the same month. The trend comes despite President Donald Trump pledging to 'bring back' the coal industry which has been hit hard by competition from cheaper natural gas and renewable energy. The US has been shifting toward natural gas which is not only cheaper than coal but also emits less carbon dioxide. However experts noted that several coal plants were down for routine maintenance in April and the month saw an increase in wind generation and a drop in energy demand. This suggests that coal could easily take over from renewable sources in the following months. Despite this areport from the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis IEEFA said that the trend could potentially extend into the month of May. The trend will happen sporadically throughout the next several years says the IEEFA as renewable energy becomes cheaper and the world's attention focuses on mitigating the effects of carbon fueled climate change by turning away from fossil fuels. Growth in both solar and wind power has been particularly stark with the former producing 48 times more electricity than it did a decade ago due to cheaper equipment and government incentives. Coupled with a rise in renewables has been a trend of declining coal consumption. Last year coal hit a nearly 40 year low in terms of proportional usage in the U.S. Coal has fallen out of favor in part due to decreasing costs of natural gas. In 2016 it was dethroned as the America's fuel of choice by natural gas a feat aided in part by a thriving hydro fracking industry that continues to pump abundant fossil fuels out of the Bakken Oil Shale in North Dakota. The Trump administration on Wednesday completed one of its biggest rollbacks of environmental rules replacing a landmark Obama era effort that sought to wean the nation's electrical grid off coal fired power plants and their climate damaging pollution. Environmental Protection Agency chief Andrew Wheeler a former coal industry lobbyist signed a replacement rule that gives states leeway in deciding whether to require efficiency upgrades at existing coal plants. Wheeler said coal fired power plants remained essential to the power grid something that opponents deny. 'Americans want reliable energy that they can afford' he said at a news conference. There's no denying 'the fact that fossil fuels will continue to be an important part of the mix' he said.	True	True	False	True	False
The failure of carbon tax proposals to catch on in the U.S. and around the world is prompting environmentalists to give up hope of ever implementing it. Carbon fees were once considered an obvious next step in the countrys multifaceted effort to reduce CO2 emissions. Congresswoman elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez a rising star on the left believes a carbon tax can be one part of her sweeping Green New Deal. Some conservatives have signed on to the idea believing it to be a market based approach to eliminating pollution. Even a number of major energy companies have come forward in support of charging businesses for the amount of carbon they release into the atmosphere. However carbon tax proposals have proven unsuccessful time and time again. Initiative 1631 for example was supposed to serve as a bellwether for how similar legislation could fare across the country. The bill whichcalled for a 15 fee on each metric ton of carbon emissions was put to the test in Washington state during the 2018 midterm elections. Despite the states Democratic lean and the governors public backing the measure was soundly rejectedin November. It was the second time voters in the state had rejected a carbon fee. Such a proposal being rejected in a blue state doesnt bode well for activists who hope to see it implemented nationwide. If it cant pass in Washington state right now Im not sure that says that theres much of a pathway at this moment nationally Washington Democratic Sen. Jeff Merkley said of the outcome. Events across the Atlantic have only worsened prospects for carbon tax supporters. In the face of unprecedented protests the French government has decided to suspend a planned gas tax. President Emmanuel Macros had originally proposed a slew of new carbon taxes intended to wean consumers off fossil fuels and transition to electric vehicles. The price hikes however triggered a wave of intense riots. The protests which have lasted for weeks have even become deadly. One man was caught on video over the weekend losing his hand to a grenade explosion. Theres been a predominant conversation in Washington D.C. thats been led by economists and politicos that have tried to frame a carbon tax as the only way Evan Weber a national political director for the Sunrise Movement said to Politico. Its proved time and time again to be not politically popular and we havent even priced the policy at where economists say it needs to be. The idea that a carbon fee is the way out of this mess is something we need to be pushing back on. RELATED Keep It In The Ground Activists Stormed Trump Administrations Event At UN Meeting Activists will instead focus on other causes near and dear to the environmental movement such as pushing energy standards that mandate a total transition to clean and renewable energy. While many have expressed dissolution over the prospect of a carbon tax future other green activists plan to keep charging forward with their own proposals. Supporters plan to introduce various carbon fee bills across state capitols in 2019 including Pennsylvania New York New Jersey Maryland and New England. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	True	False	True	False
Proponents of the theory humans are primarily responsible for rising global temperatures long claimed wildlife are harmed significantly by global warming and that unless mankind stops producing significant amounts of carbon dioxide emissions the worlds animals will not be able to thrive. While rising temperatures have certainly put a strain on species in some parts of the world a new study by researchers at the University of Southern Denmark suggests animals in the Arctic region are thriving as because of higher global temperatures. According to a press release touting the studys new findings warmer conditions have produced a larger number of life sustaining melt ponds in Arctic waters. Melt ponds provide more light and heat for the ice and the underlying water but now it turns out that they may also have a more direct and potentially important influence on life in the Arctic waters stated the press release. Mats of algae and bacteria can evolve in the melt ponds which can provide food for marine creatures. This is the conclusion of researchers in the periodical Polar Biology the press release said. The researchers said nutrients are able to reach sea creatures in the Arctic more easily because of the melt ponds. Climate change is accompanies by more storms and more precipitation and we must expect that more nutrients will be released from the surroundings into the melt ponds said Professor Ronnie Glud of the Department of Biology at SDU. These conditions plus the fact that the distribution of areas of melt ponds is increasing can contribute to increased productivity in plant and animal life in the Arctic seas. Recent data released by scientists at NASA and the National Snow and Ice Data Center reveals sea ice in the Arctic and Antarctic regions are at their lowest recorded point since 1979 when satellite data first started estimating sea ice. About 2 million square km of Arctic sea ice are estimated to have been lost since 1979. Current data suggest about 14.28 million square km of sea ice remain. USA Today recently declared the loss of sea ice terrifying but global warming skeptics have long suggested these claims are overblown when put into perspective. As reported by Anthony Watts on his influential climate change website Watts Up With That the president of the Royal Society in London reported in 1817 significant reductions to arctic sea ice. It will without doubt have come to your Lordships knowledge that a considerable change of climate inexplicable at present to us must have taken place in the Circumpolar Regions by which the severity of the cold that has for centuries past enclosed the seas in the high northern latitudes in an impenetrable barrier of ice has been during the last two years greatly abated. this affords ample proof that new sources of warmth have been opened and give us leave to hope that the Arctic Seas may at this time be more accessible than they have been for centuries past and that discoveries may now be made in them not only interesting to the advancement of science but also to the future intercourse of mankind and the commerce of distant nations.	False	False	False	True	False
Humans must drastically alter food production to prevent the most catastrophic effects of global warming according to a new report from the United Nations panel on climate change. The panel of scientists looked at the climate change effects of agriculture deforestation and other land use such as harvesting peat and managing grasslands and wetlands. Together those activities generate about a third of human greenhouse gas emissions including more than 40 of methane. That's important because methane is particularly good at trapping heat in the atmosphere. And the problem is getting more severe. Emissions from agricultural production are projected to increase the authors warn. Delaying action on reducing greenhouse gas emissions they continue could result in some irreversible impacts on some ecosystems. This is the latest in a series of reports from the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The new report adds weight and detail to a warning put out by the same panel of scientists last fall in which they sounded the alarm about the inadequacy of the pledges countries have made so far to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. At that time the panel broadly suggested that farmland would need to shrink and forests would need to grow to keep Earth from getting more than 1.5 degrees Celsius hotter than it was in the preindustrial era. Global temperatures have already risen about 1 degree Celsius in the past 150 years. To meet that temperature target global greenhouse gas emissions will need to fall by 40 to 50 in the next decade. Scientists say the only way to achieve that reduction is to significantly increase the amount of land that's covered in trees and other vegetation and significantly reduce the amount of methane and other greenhouse gases that come from raising livestock such as cows sheep and goats. The new report offers some broad suggestions for how countries might achieve that. For example for countries that have lost tree cover in the past century reforestation can help suck greenhouse gases out of the air while also preventing soil from drying up. Reducing food waste can also help reduce a country's greenhouse gas footprint. Controlling emissions from agriculture is also a food security issue. Greenhouse gases from food production create a vicious cycle As Earth gets hotter farming gets more difficult in many places which forces farmers to clear more land to grow food. Climate change including increases in frequency and intensity of extremes has adversely impacted food security and terrestrial ecosystems as well as contributed to desertification and land degradation in many regions the report's authors write. If greenhouse gas emissions continue to increase as they are doing today it will exacerbate those challenges and eventually make it all but impossible to control global warming without creating serious food shortages. The U.N. panel is the latest group of experts to grapple with a global conundrum how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture deforestation and other land use without creating food shortages or displacing people whose livelihoods rely on practices that are unsustainable globally. Scientists and economists have been studying the effects of our diets on the environment for years. There's a growing consensus that a transition to a more plant centered diet would help. Currently about 50 of the globe's vegetated land is dedicated to agriculture and about 30 of cropland is used to grow grain for animal feed. Given how much land it takes to grow food to feed livestock meat production is a leading cause of deforestation. A report released last month by the World Resources Institute finds that if current dietary patterns continue an additional 593 million hectares which is almost twice the size of India would be needed to feed the projected 9.8 billion people the anticipated population by 2050. Right now agriculture generates an estimated 25 of annual greenhouse gas emissions according to the WRI that's when you combine food production and the land use changes associated with farming such as clearing vegetation and plowing. If current trends continue but agricultural productivity does not increase beyond 2010 levels the WRI report concludes that most of the globe's remaining forests would need to be cleared to feed the world. And the globe would exceed the greenhouse gas emission targets set by the Paris climate agreement.	True	False	False	True	False
Obviously if the temperature continues to go up at some point it can be harmful or even very harmful the billionaire Republican megadonor said during an interview last week on Freakonomics Radio. But the question is What do we do about it about whatever risk there is? And to me the answer is innovation. On the face of it that admission may seem like a shift coming from a man who with his brother David bankrolled a conservative movement bent on hacking away environmental regulations and helped transform the GOP into the only major political party in the developed world to deny the overwhelming evidence of manmade global warming. But to scientists Koch remains a climate pariah who has learned how to temper his message for audiences who dont buy into the view that industry players are somehow more credible than impartial researchers. Its just no longer credible to deny out of hand that climate change is happening or even that its human caused Michael Mann a climatologist at Penn State University and co author of a new book on climate change denialism told HuffPost on Monday. So the forces of denial the special interests the polluting interests have instead turned to a new talking point that they think they might be able to get away with. When you look at all the climate denial arguments theyre basically the flip of all that Its not real its not us its not bad the experts disagree or the experts are unreliable and theres no hope we cant fix it Cook told HuffPost. You expect them to be moving along that spectrum. But that reasoning which sounds measured compared to outright denial of observable phenomena has been employed for years to undermine climate science and does not represent an evolution on the issue. The spectrum of climate science denialism that argument included has not changed much over the past two decades according to a 2015 U.K. study analyzing 16000 documents from conservative think tanks. The philosophical belief that left alone the free market will produce industries and technologies to curb climate change before it becomes catastrophic is flawed. Economist Milton Friedman the so called patron saint of laissez faire capitalism who popularized the belief that corporations should pursue profit and shareholder value above all argued there is little incentive to preserve the environment without some form of government intervention. You need a price on the emission of carbon if youre going to level the playing field Mann said. Even Milton Friedman understood the existence of market externalities the fact that damage to our environment is not accounted for in the free market without placing some sort of price signal. The most popular solution among economists is putting a tax on carbon emissions. In February a group of Republican elder statesmen introduced a plan for a 40 carbon tax that would be returned to taxpayers in the form of a carbon dividend. A cadre of oil and gas giants including Exxon Mobil Corp. endorsed the proposal earlier this month. But the proposition faces dim prospects of becoming law under the Trump administration which has vowed to pump up the oil gas and coal industries. Booming U.S. oil production bolstered by advancements in hydraulic fracturing or fracking technology has helped keep oil prices low since they plummeted in mid 2014. The price per barrel now hovers just above 40. Without some incentive from policymakers to invest in zero emissions energy such as wind solar or hydropower the world is likely to warm well past 2 degrees Celsius or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit by the end of the century. That temperature rise would drastically alter the climate submerge coastal communities and could create up to 2 billion refugees. Both government policy and low carbon technological innovations are going to be critical to keeping warming within 2C James Leaton research director at the U.K. based financial think tank Carbon Tracker told HuffPost by email. Obviously policy and technology interact and cannot be seen in isolation with policy stimulating technological deployment and rapid roll out reducing the future level of policy required. Both can impact the relative financial attractiveness of future energy options. These policies that the U.S. government has others have proposed or promulgated have been just symbolic Koch said in the interview. We oppose all of these because they end up being cronyism. They end up helping certain wealthy people to the disadvantage of the less fortunate. Sometimes the pot calls the kettle black. But in this case the kettle is filled with a solution to clean up the greasy mess left behind by the pot. And the pot is a fossil fuel tycoon with a net worth roughly the size of Bulgarias gross domestic product. Its one thing to be an ignorant fool but its quite something else to allow ones malicious ignorance to potentially threaten the entire planet Mann said. That is what is so pernicious about Kochs continued denial of the threat of climate change and the extent to which they have been able to pollute our entire political discourse by using their political wealth to confuse the public and policymakers about the reality of this existential threat.	True	True	True	True	False
TIME listed Greta Thunberg a 16 year old climate change activist on its list of the 100 most influential people of 2019. Thunberg who says she has Asperger syndrome gained prominence for ditching school every Friday to protest outside Swedish parliament. The teenager warned in a high profile speech to the United Nations last year that we need to keep the fossil fuels in the ground or face catastrophe. Thousands of students in Europe and the U.S. ditched school to demand government action on climate change in February. American student activists led by the daughter of Democratic Minnesota Rep. Ilhan Omar demanded a Green New Deal the legislation sponsored by New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez. Greta Thunberg saw her power in us and we in turn see our power in her March for Our Lives co founder Emma Gonzlez wrote of Thunberg for TIME adding that Greta is inspiring steadfast students and shaming apathetic adults. Climate change is our reality and youth activists like Greta are doing everything within their power to work against it and demand a change Gonzlez wrote. Thunbergs prominence has only grown as has the alarm of her message. Thunberg even met with Pope Francis who issued an encyclical on global warming in 2015. RELATED Another Canadian Province Boots Liberals Out Of Power Over Carbon Taxes Environmentalists even some climate scientists are increasingly promoting Thunbergs actions in an effort to draw more young people into climate activism. European politicians invited Thunberg to bring her call for urgent action on global warming to lawmakers. I want you to act as if the house was on fire Thunberg said in a speech to European Parliament Tuesday. We are in the middle of the sixth mass extinction and the extinction rate is 10000 times faster than what is considered normal with up to 200 species becoming extinct every single day said a teary eyed Thunberg. Erosion of fertile topsoil deforestation of the rainforest toxic air pollution loss of insects and wildlife acidification of our oceans these are all disastrous trends said Thunberg barely able to keep her tears back. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	True	True
Wildfires are raging through Californias wine country. Flooded homes in Houston Texas are still rotting. Puerto Ricans are languishing in darkness collecting drinking water from streams. And South Florida and the U.S. Virgin Islands were still picking through the rubble as yet another hurricane made landfall over the mouth of the Mississippi River. Scientists say the frequency and severity of natural disasters like these are linked to climbing global temperatures. But the Trump administration on Tuesday announced plans to repeal the United States only major policy to combat climate change. The Clean Power Plan a set of Obama era regulations aimed at slashing emissions from coal fired power plants and boosting renewable energy production had yet to go into effect after being temporarily blocked by the Supreme Court since February 2016. On Tuesday afternoon Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt who sued to halt the plan last year when he was Oklahomas attorney general released a proposal to eliminate the policy without any replacement leaving the country without a national strategy to adapt to global warming. Rain soaked the state last winter stacking its mountains with colossal snowdrifts and quenching soil left parched after more than half a decade of historic drought. But record breaking heat baked the West in July and August drying its woodlands and leaving it vulnerable to the sort of blaze now engulfing the wine producing region neighboring San Francisco. These people have either no sense or a very sophisticated sense of irony to be doing this at this timehe added referring to the Trump administration. Following an exceptionally hot summer 172 fires 78 of which qualified as large incidents according to the National Interagency Fire Center burned more than 8 million acres in western Montana and the Pacific Northwest. Thats almost doublethe 10 year average of 5.5 million acres. Elsewhere a spate of fierce hurricanes inundated parts of the South and Caribbean. Warmer oceans tend to exacerbate storms and shift their directions. After Hurricane Harvey dumped 30 inches of rain on Houston in August scientists warned that the Category 4 storm served as a teachable example of the type of weather event their models predict will become more common as the planet continues to warm. The next few weeks proved Mother Nature to be a cruel instructor. Hurricane Irma rampaged through the Caribbean before slamming into Florida as a Category 5 beast knocking out power for millions and ultimately killing 69 people. Less than two weeks later Hurricane Maria pummeled Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands crippling the U.S. territories power grids and leaving whole areas uninhabitable. In Puerto Rico which has a larger population than 21 U.S. states the death toll continues to climb hitting 39 this week as the islands aging utility struggles to rebuild electrical transmission wires. But the proposal to scrap the policy without any kind of replacement to curb greenhouse gases underscores the extent to which the Trump administrations refusal to acknowledge basic climate science is leaving the country vulnerable to global warming effects that are no longer theoretical. It is crazy to think about having an EPA administrator who has nothing to offer in replacement of an admittedly not so good regulatory solution former Rep. Bob Inglis R S.C. now the executive director of the conservative environmental advocacy group RepublicEn told HuffPost by phone on Tuesday. To get rid of the Clean Power Plan without any idea of what to do that could be better is malfeasance on the part of the EPA administrator.	False	True	False	True	True
The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel On Climate Changes IPCC newly released climate report once again found little to no evidence global warming caused many types of extreme weather events to increase. The IPCC once again reports that there is little basis for claiming that drought floods hurricanes tornadoes have increased much less increased due to greenhouse gases University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. tweetedSunday night. For example the IPCCs report noted that there is only low confidence regarding changes in global tropical cyclone numbers under global warming over the last four decades. Pielke pointed out this inconvenient data. Much like the IPCCs 2013 climate assessment the new special report confirmed what Pielke and others have said for years about the relationship between global warming and extreme weather. But dont expect to hear that from many other media outlets especially those that often cite individual weather events as evidence of man made warming. For example The Washington Posts write up of the IPCCs report focused on the mainline findings namely that the world is woefully off target to keep future global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. The New York Times highlighted the IPCCs warning of a world of worsening food shortages and wildfires and a mass die off of coral reefs as soon as 2040. Neither WaPo nor NYT mentioned the reports findings on extreme weather. The IPCCs new report is meant to sound the alarm on global warming ahead of the UN climate summit which is to be held in Poland this December. Delegates are expected to make further commitments to implement the Paris climate accord that calls for limiting future warming below 2 degrees Celsius by 2100. Aside from dire predictions however the IPCCs new report also noted that many types of extreme weather events are not getting worse. RELATED Its The Final Chance We Have To Stop Global Warming Until The Next Chance When it comes to droughts for example the IPCC admits there is low confidence in the sign of drought trends since 1950 at global scale. The report says there are likely to be trends in some regions of the world including increasing droughts in the Mediterranean and decreasing droughts in parts of North America. The IPCC also noted there is low confidence due to limited evidence however that anthropogenic climate change has affected the frequency and the magnitude of floods. The report added that streamflow trends since 1950 are non statistically significant in most of the worlds largest rivers. However the reports authors warned that future warming could exacerbate extreme weather and hurt the global economy. The reports authors also claimed extreme weather had already increased contrary to much of their own evidence. One of the key messages that comes out very strongly from this report is that we are already seeing the consequences of 1 degree Celsius of global warming through more extreme weather rising sea levels and diminishing Arctic sea ice among other changes Panmao Zhai an IPCC co chair said in a statement issued Sunday.	True	False	False	True	True
The United States of America has disproportionately contributed to the climate and ecological crises and to preventing a transition away from fossil fuels and Americans thus bear an extraordinary responsibility to solve the crises the text reads. Apparently the six million Jews massacred during the Second World War not to mention the other tens of millions of casualties do not measure up to the overarching evils of climate changeat least in the minds of the Berkeley City Council. Droughts famines and diseases produced by global warming have already killed millions of people in the Global South the document announces adding that the earth is already too hot for safety and justice. The global economys overshoot of ecological limits and increasingly climate change are driving a global fresh water scarcity crisis and the sixth mass extinction of species which could devastate much of life on earth for the next ten million years the resolution warns. To read through the text one would think that global warming has been behind every catastrophe and uprising on the planet. Climate change has been linked to the Syrian War the rise of Boko Haram in Nigeria as well as the famines water shortages and resulting conflict in Yemen Somalia and South Sudan the document pronounces. Not only present evils however but future calamities are also prophesied with astounding exactitude and certainty. The collapse of the Greenland Ice Shelf the resolution states could result in several billion climate refugees or a substantial share of the entire population of the world. Climate change population growth and growing demand for food energy and fresh water will incite violent conflict over diminishing resources by the year 2030 the document also forecasts with remarkable confidence. The antidote to the Councils doomsday predictions are to take the world back to pre industrial levels of CO2 emissions the text declares conjuring images of bearded Amish people driving about in horse drawn carriages. Humanity must restore a safe level of greenhouse gas concentrations and global average temperatures well below todays levels and back to pre industrial levels as quickly as possible it states. Despite the Councils dire warnings however it turns out that scientists themselves are far less certain that Berkeleys elite council members. For instance only 22 percent of the 1862 American Meteorological Society AMS members surveyed in 2008 believe that all or a large amount of the damage caused by global warming could be prevented by taking measures to mitigate its effects. Moreover the correlation between carbon dioxide emissions and climate warming seems anything but linear. Between 2002 and 2008 CO2 emissions increased from 24 billion tons to 29 billion. In that same period the global temperature anomaly decreased from 0.62C to 0.52C. This fuzzy correlation between CO2 emissions and increase in global temperature raises the question of just what effect a radical decrease of carbon dioxide emissions would actually have on the planet. Not content with prescribing a drastic cutback in global emissions however the Council members forge onward to make a more insidious proposal population control. The Council argues in favor of finding ways to humanely stabilize population as a means of mitigating the effects of global warming. The City of Berkeley calls on the United States of America to initiate a just national mobilization emergency effort to reverse global warming which ends national greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible and immediately initiates an effort to safely draw down carbon from the atmosphere the text boldly proposes. While one can only have pity on local residents who must live under the heavy boot of the unhinged Berkeley City Council the rest of the nation can offer a collective sigh of relief that their power extends no further.	False	False	False	True	True
When Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull arrives in Washington this week for consultations with President Donald Trump he won't be traveling solo. Turnbull is bringing the most senior Australian political and business delegation ever to visit the United States in a trip aimed at building stronger relationships with America's governors. While he'll talk trade and security concerns with Mr. Trump Turnbull will spend the weekend courting U.S. governors at their annual gathering. Turnbull a Goldman Sachs executive turned prime minister is the latest world leader to extend outreach to U.S. governors and big city mayors in the age of Mr. Trump's America First policies. It's an end run or at least a shift in focus around Washington as foreign leaders react to Mr. Trump's unpredictability and occasional lack of interest in the sort of global cooperation they're seeking. Mr. Trump after all has announced plans to pull the U.S. out of the Paris climate accord exit the Trans Pacific Partnership and renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement and other trade deals. On certain issues like climate change these foreign leaders can't go to Washington anymore said Nicholas Burns a top State Department official during the Bush administration who also served as U.S. ambassador to NATO. This is happening more frequently because the Trump administration is pulling back on a number of its commitments. Turnbull isn't the only world leader to see the benefit of direct talks with American governors and municipal leaders. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's recent trip to the U.S. included trade and tourism talks in Illinois with Gov. Bruce Rauner and Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel a stop in the San Francisco Bay area for meetings with California Gov. Jerry Brown and Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom and a visit to Los Angeles where he explored the city's hiking trails with Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti. Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman is planning an extensive U.S. tour in the coming weeks with expected stops in several U.S. cities. During last fall's U.N. climate talks in Bonn Germany Brown and former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg took a starring role representing a group of U.S. states cities and businesses that argued they are still committed to curbing global warming even if Mr. Trump pulls out of the Paris accord. The group which calls itself America's Pledge notes that its collective alliance has an economy larger than Japan and Germany combined and can take steps to reduce emissions by promoting renewable energy use and climate friendly transportation systems. It's hardly unprecedented for heads of government and state to make stops outside Washington on visits to the U.S. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu frequently visits New York and Los Angeles and Mr. Trump welcomed Chinese President Xi Jinping at his Mar a Lago club in Florida last year. But governors and mayors say there's been an uptick in the interest of foreign leaders in reaching out to them since Mr. Trump's election. It's political and it's practical. On the political side a lack of engagement strength and leadership from Washington and the White House Garcetti said in an interview. But the practical aspect is the world demands integration and work on these things. In Los Angeles Garcetti designated Nina Hachigian a former U.S. ambassador to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations during the Obama administration to serve in a new position of deputy mayor for international affairs. Hachigian oversees the city's international portfolio from the city's dozens of foreign consulates to trade climate and tourism issues and the city's hosting of the 2028 Olympic Games. Mr. Trump's election and the nontraditional makeup of his Cabinet and administration proved that the political leadership of America over the years is not going to come exclusively from Washington said Joe Hockey the Australian ambassador to the U.S. But these days relationships have to be deeper. They need to be more thoughtful. They need to be broader. And they need to be inclusive. Turnbull and Ghana President Nana Akufo Addo will address the National Governors Association this weekend and the prime minister is bringing most of Australia's territorial premiers who will attend a joint program with their American counterparts Saturday morning. The Australian government and the NGA have partnered to bring a joint group of CEOs to Washington this weekend as well. Certainly there's some change in policy at the national level with this administration creating a bit of change and foreign governments are wanting to interpret that said Scott Pattison the NGA's executive director and chief executive officer. He said it has resulted in an increased interest on the part of U.S. governors to forge direct ties with foreign officials. This really is about interaction economic development. There is no desire on the part of governors they know their role there's not a desire to get involved in foreign policy Pattison said. But local leaders and their foreign counterparts are finding new ways to make end runs around Washington particularly on economic development and environmental policy. Last week the NGA launched a new international cooperation arm called NGA Global designed to strengthen ties between governors and foreign governments. At the last NGA meeting held July in Rhode Island Trudeau became the first foreign leader to address the NGA in its history. Last year NGA brought governors to Germany and Switzerland to study how those countries used apprenticeships to better prepare their workforces a test run for the new office. NGA is also hosting a summit of North American governors and premiers in Phoenix in May a partnership they launched with their counterparts in Mexico and Canada in 2015.	True	False	False	True	True
Some of us knew this already. Butyou rarely hear itsotrenchantly expressed by a former world leader as it was in London yesterday by Aussie ex Prime Minister Tony Abbott in ahard hitting must read speech for the Global Warming Policy Foundation. Abbott is one of only a handful of world leaders to have spoken out against the global warming consensus. The only other ones recently are former Czech presidentVclav Klaus and of course President Donald Trump. This gives you an idea of just how badly infected are the nations of the free world by the green virus. Even those politicians who might nurture doubts in private almost never express them in public. Abbott himself lost his job as Australias prime minister at least in part because he was found guilty of wrongthink onclimate change which he once famously described as crap.The man who replaced him as prime minister Malcolm Turnbull unfondly known as the Honourable Member for Goldman Sachs is himself a leading tentacle of the Green Blob. Abbotts speech which is causing Australias notoriously left wing media to explode like ripe watermelons struck by hollow point bullets ought to serve as a painful reminder to Australias Liberal party of the talent they lost when they decided to knife this Jesuit trained Oxford educated rock solid family man conservative in the back and replace him with the slippery Davos style globalist Turnbull. Here are some of the highlights Climate change is a product of ignorance and an anti Christian society If science was all about consensus wed still be living in caves Greens want to make life nasty brutish and short Wheres the evidence for climate catastrophe? Theres none in Australia thats for sure Contrary to the breathless assertions that climate change is behind every weather event in Australia the floods are not bigger the bushfires are not worse the droughts are not deeper or longer and the cyclones are not more severe than they were in the 1800s. Sometimes they do more damage but thats because theres more to destroy not because their intensity has increased. More than 100 years of photography at Manly Beach in my electorate does not suggest that sea levels have risen despite frequent reports from climate alarmists that this is imminent. But theres plenty of evidence that green lunacy is killing the Australian economy Renewableshave more to do with virtue signalling than with useful energy Theres a reason renewable energy is crap and its so simple even lefties and greens should be able to understand it Hydro aside renewable energy should properly be referred to as intermittent and unreliable power. When the wind doesnt blow and the sun doesnt shine the power doesnt flow. Wind and solar power are like sailing ships cheaper than powered boats to be sure but weve stopped using sail for transport because it couldnt be trusted to turn up on time. Because the weather is unpredictable you never really know when renewable power is going to work. Its marginal cost is low but so is its reliability so in the absence of industrial scale batteries it always needs matching capacity from dependable coal gas hydro or nuclear energy. This should always have been obvious. We think wererational but where green policy is concerned were little better than the Aztecs Oh and by the way the way were carrying on Western Civilization is on its way out	False	True	False	True	False
Four Christian church leaders in Montana are urging their states Republican senator to quit rejecting the widely accepted science behind man made global warming. The one Catholic priest and three Protestant clergy criticized Sen. Steve Daines R Mont. inan op edpublished by the Missoulian Thursday for failing to understand climate changes role in a widespread fish kill in Yellowstone National Park last summer. We cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment said the church leaders the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co Cathedral. The simple moral truth is that United States is by far the worlds largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it they added. The church leaders slammed Daines for having the audacity to challenge the overwhelming scientific consensus that emissions from farms and burning fossil fuels are trapping heat in the atmosphere and causing the planet to warm. Not unlike the years of public skepticism over smokings role in lung cancermany people still doubt the science behind global warming thanks to a decades long campaign to seed doubt funded by companies with money at stake. Daines who earned a bachelors degree in chemical engineering before entering politics received a paltry 3 percent lifetime score from the League of Conservation Voters which ranks lawmakers by how they vote on environmental legislation. He did however earn a 16 percent score for last year. In 2012 he told Montana Public Radio he believes the climate is changing but doubts how much humans are effecting it. We view science as a way to deepen our appreciation and wonder at the majesty of Gods creation including the complex beautiful and life sustaining planet earth.	False	True	True	False	False
Mark Wilson Getty Images Climate change protesters block traffic during a protest to shut down Washington D.C. on Sept. 23 2019. Activists demanding a greater global response to climate change disrupted Monday morning commutes with protests in Washington D.C. Ahead of the days United Nations Climate Action Summit in New York activists participated in Shut Down D.C. a coordinated act of civil disobedience designed to draw attention to the global climate crisis. A press release from the events organizers said that Mondays protesters included labor organizations the anti war group Code Pink Black Lives Matter and the environmental justice organization Rising Tide North America. Environmental activists gather in Washington on Monday during global climate action week. The organizers said their goal was to shut down the center of decision making in the U.S. to demand the government immediately ends fossil fuel production and enforces a swift and just transition to renewable energy. Among their demands were the passage of the Green New Deal additional measures to protect indigenous peoples land and a broad push toward climate justice. Pictures and videos posted to social media on Monday morning showed protesters halting traffic at a number of Washington intersections. D.C. police identified 14 locations that were blocked at some point according to The Washington Post. Im in downtown DC where climate activists with Extinction Rebellion have blocked the intersection of K and 16th streets with a big sailboat that says rebel for life. pic.twitter.comNWIO1aRvM3 Alejandro Alvarez September 23 2019 Climate activists are shutting down major intersections throughout DC. Interstate 395 and New York Ave is closed. pic.twitter.comJhjVBr1hU3 Sam Sweeney September 23 2019 Mondays protests come on the heels of a worldwide climate strike on Friday a series of protests in multiple countries that some called the largest climate rally ever.	False	True	False	True	True
Democratic US presidential candidate Joe Biden whose first campaign was sunk by plagiarism has been caught plagiarizing bits of his 2020 climate plan. The campaign claims it merely left out the citations. At least three passages from the climate plan Biden's campaign released on Tuesday were copied directly from environmental organizations CREDO activist Josh Nelson tweeted posting original text from the Carbon Capture Coalition and the Blue Green Alliance alongside text from Biden's campaign website. Compounding the gaffe the Carbon Capture Coalition's membership includes the country's largest fossil fuel companies not such strange bedfellows for Biden who received a D grade from Greenpeace last week largely due to his lack of environmental policy but less than ideal for a candidate trying to reinvent himself as green. Biden's campaign waited the better part of a day to address the charges as the news spread buoyed by anger at the candidate over news he'd lied about marching in the civil rights movement finally telling Business Insider that while they had inadvertently left out several citations from the final version of the document posted to the website it had been updated to include references. Biden's habit of plagiarism dates back to his first presidential campaign in 1988 when he lifted a popular speech from a UK politician that mischaracterized his own family background implyinghe was descended from coal miners and the first in his family to attend university. Caught in a pile of lies the campaign responded with a strikingly similar excuse To the degree it wasn't attributed it was an oversight or inadvertent Biden's 1988 campaign aide told the New York Times. It wasn't the only misappropriated speech Biden made before dropping out of the race he also borrowed one from Robert F. Kennedy the previous year and even plagiarized while at law school complaining when he was caught that his intent was not to deceive anyone. The candidate complained the fuss over his plagiarism was much ado about nothing and blamed rival campaigns for blowing the issue out of proportion. Like this story? Share it with a friend!	False	False	False	False	False
The Sierra Club distributed a press release on Wednesday announcing it had received the 64 million donation to support its Beyond Coal campaign and other organizations with the same ideology that would like to put all coal operations out of business and the American workers who depend on them out of work. Thepress release stated Pollution from coal fired power plants is the largest source of carbon emissions and kills 7500 Americans annually down from 13000 when the Beyond Coal campaign began expanding in 2011 through support from Bloomberg. To date Bloomberg has invested over 100 million in protecting the environment and public health through its support of the Beyond Coal campaign. Since 2011 when Bloomberg Philanthropies first partnered with the Sierra Clubs Beyond Coal Campaign nearly 50 percent of the countrys coal fired power plants have announced their retirement and deaths related to coal pollution have decreased by 42. The press release said the new funding will be used to maintain progress despite the fate of the Clean Power Plan. The Trump administration has yet to realize that the war on coal was never led by Washingtonand Washington cannot end it Bloomberg said in the press release. It was started and continues to be led by communities in both red and blue states who are tired of having their air and water poisoned when there are cleaner and cheaper alternatives available cities and states that are determined to clean their air and reduce their costs and businesses seeking to lower their energy bills while also doing their part for the climate. Without any federal regulations on carbon emissions those groups have combined with market forces to close half the nations coal fired power plants over the past six yearsand with this new grant we aim to reach 60 percent by the end of 2020 Bloomberg said. Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club boasted that his organization and other activists are responsible for the closure of scores of dirty power plants. Together we have worked with local grassroots activists and partners in the nations most vulnerable communities to secure the retirement of 259 dirty power plants and the promise of a brighter future putting at the center of our work a transition that leaves no one behind and that demands good paying family sustaining jobs for workers who depended on the fossil fuel economy Brune said. All of this and were just getting started. Our movement is growing and our momentum is unstoppable. Our clean energy future is now. President Trumpsignedan executive order in March ordering a review of the Clean Power Plan as well as other environmental regulations. Instead of Obamas stifling energy regulations the Trump administration will promote policies thatfavorAmerican energy dominance. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt who was one of the first Attorneys General to sue the EPA over the Clean Power Plan is now undertaking the repeal of the Obama era clean energy power grab.	True	False	False	True	True
In a video posted to social media on Monday New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio again directly blamed climate change for 2012's deadySuperstormSandy a contention that lacks scientific support and touted his plan to spend 10billionto fortify and protectLower Manhattan against future storms. Even as local leaders warned that de Blasio's plan to construct new barriers would actually destroy the waterfront neighborhoods he says he wants to protect de Blasio insisted his views were now mainstream among New Yorkers. After Sandy there weren't a lot of climate change deniers left in New York City de Blasio said directly into the camera after reminding viewers that the stormleft dozens dead and cost the city billions in economic losses.We need to protect this city and this country and this world from global warming. There's no national policy to do it right now. ... We have to do it ourselves. Mayor de Blasio added in the video which appeared on Facebook and Twitter that the federal government also must act quickly We have to fight for the bigger changes like the Green New Deal de Blasio said. The mayor claimed that studiesundertaken by his office and others has determined that if the city does not prepare for climate change rising seas will expose 20 percent of lower Manhattan to daily flooding by 2100. However past expert predictions on the effects of global warming have proven inaccurate at best. For exampleUnited Nations scientists predicted that the world had only 10 years to immediately address climate change all the way back in 1989 in order to protect entire cities from destruction and a resulting flood ofeco refugees. ANASA scientist falsely predicted the same thing in 2006. Contrary to de Blasio's assertions no study has defintively linked the existence or power of Superstorm Sandy to man made climate change or made the claim that such a link can be definitively established at all.Some contested studies have however suggested the storm may have become more intense to some degree as a result of warming sea temperatures. We suggest that it is more useful to regard the extreme circulation regime or weather event as being largely unaffected by climate change and question whether known changes in the climate system's thermodynamic state affected the impact of the particular event stated one paper produced by researchers at the National Center for Atmospheric Research. The researchers added Some examples briefly illustrated include 'snowmaggedon' in February 2010 Superstorm Sandy in October 2012 and supertyphoon Haiyan in November 2013 and in more detail the Boulder floods of September 2013 all of which were influenced by high sea surface temperatures that had a discernible human component. The Green New Deal backed by de Blasio has not attracted universal support even among Democrats after the resolution'sbotched rollout in Congress earlier this year included the release of an official document by New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez's officethat promisedeconomic security even for thoseunwilling to workas well as the elimination offarting cows and air travel. The Democratic mayor on Thursday first announcedhis planto meet the existential threat of climate change specifically by extending a section of the lower Manhattan coastline as much as 500 feet into the East River. He said the 10 billion effort to protect lower Manhattan from flooding by extending the shoreline between the Brooklyn Bridge and the Battery will be funded partly by private development if federal funds are not available. WHAT DOES TRUMP ADMIN'S OWN CLIMATE CHANGE REPORT SAY IS COMING? If there's federal money in play it probably looks one way de Blasio said last week.If there's not federal money in play we have to get some private money into it and there has to be some development. Officials have been developing schemes to fortify New York City's waterfront since Superstorm Sandy destroyed thousands of homes and businesses in 2012. De Blasio said it will cost about 500 million to fortify most of lower Manhattan from future effects of climate change including rising sea levels and intense precipitation with grassy berms and removable barriers. But planners determined that protecting the lowest lying area including South Street Seaport and the financial district will require adding more land over several years. De Blasio who is contemplating joining the crowded field of 2020 Democratic presidential candidates said the 10 billion landfill project should be supported by federal funds but that's unlikely to happen during the administration of Republican President Donald Trump. Lower Manhattan is one of the core centers of the American economy he said. It's where the financial capital of the United States is. The security of lower Manhattan should be a national priority. The fact is it is not. And it's incomprehensible to me that there's no sense of urgency from the federal government. He added We can't afford to bury our head in the sand and that's right now what our federal government is doing. The plan to extend the coastline will go through the city's environmental review process de Blasio said but he hopes to avoid the endless dragging on that usually accompanies something of this scale. CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP But the prospect of private development on the newly built land is sure to meet resistance from downtown Manhattan community members. City Council member Margaret Chin who represents the area said amore resilient future cannot be paid for by private real estate development that would destroy the waterfront neighborhoods that we are trying to protect. De Blasio announced the climate resilience plan at a news conference after previewing it inNew York magazine. This is the existential threat de Blasio said. This is the core issue we all must face as aggressively as humanly possible. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False	False	True	True	True
After this hurricane season the GOP has a dose of reality they are going to HAVE to take climate change is real and it can and will be destructive. With what basically amounts to a humanitarian crisis going on in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria it cannot be ignored any longer. However with a Trump administration it will be if allowed. Fortunately for the country and the world there are some Democrats who will do their best to stop the Republican party from destroying the Earth with their own blatant ignorance. During a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing on Wednesday Senator Jeff Merkley D OR took EPA appointee William Wehrum to task over his inability to acknowledge that greenhouse gases do have a major impact on temperature. Merkley displayed a chart composed by NASA that showed the relationship between rising temperatures and rising greenhouse emissions. Obviously the chart showed that as greenhouse gas emissions go up so does the temperature. It was a basic question asking if the lines followed each other. A five year old could easily note that they do indeed follow each other. Wehrum tried to sleazily worm his way out of answering the simple question. Merkley interrupted Wehrum and asked him to just look at the lines. Wehrum never did answer the question. Merkley thanked him and then let him have it. He then noted NASA found no correlation between solar activity or volcanic activity however they did find a correlation between carbon dioxide and other global warming gases and the rising temperature of the planet. Merkley continued For the rest of the questioning Merkley continued to show just how woefully ignorant the officials in charge of the Environmental Protection Agency are. The truly maddening part though is that Merkley showed the American people that its not just ignorance its intentional ignorance. They refuse to see it accept being ignorant and continue their refusal to acknowledge that climate change is real and it will have and already has had devastating effects on the planet. You can watch a video of the hearing below.	True	True	True	True	False
Energy Secretary Rick Perry attended a March 29 event about the state of U.S. energy where he discussed his thoughts on energy policy with Carl Cannon the Washington bureau chief of RealClearPolitics. Here are four checks on claims from the interview. Claim 1 Solar grew by 90 percent in the last two years. So were seeing this really great growth in these renewables claimed Perry. The solar energy sector has grown dramatically in recent years. Technological innovation as well as economies of scale have made solar a viable technology. The price of crystalline silicon solar modules for example have dropped dramatically falling from 79 per watt in 1976 2018 dollars to 0.27 per watt according to BloombergNEF. In terms of electricity generation the extent of that growth depends on the type of solar panels counted and whether small scale facilities are included. Looking at photovoltaic solar panels the dominant type of solar technology the U.S. generated on net nearly 33 million megawatt hours MWh at utility scale facilities in 2016 rising 90 percent to 63 million MWh in 2018 according to the Energy Information Administration EIA. When including electricity generated from a second form of solar technology known as solar thermal the percent change drops slightly to 85 percent. These figures only represent the electricity generated at utility scale facilities which are 1 MW or larger in size. The percentage drops further to 75 percent when including net electricity generation from small scale facilities. The EIAs Monthly Energy Review for March reports an 85 percent increase for solar electricity 36.1 million net kilowatt hours kWh generated in 2016 compared to 66.6 million kWh in 2018. Claim 2 When I was governor of Texas we put more wind energy in than any other state in the nation said Perry. Perry served as governor of Texas from December 2000 to January 2015 making him the longest serving governor in Texas history. During that time the state experienced a boom in wind energy. From 2000 to 2014 the amount of net electricity generated from wind power grew from 492000 MWh a year to just over 40 million a year an 8029 percent increase according to EIA data. No other state experienced the same level of growth over this period. Iowa was the next closest generating an additional 15.8 million MWh from wind. The same can be said when measuring growth by installed wind capacity. Texas added nearly 14000 megawatts MW of capacity from 2000 to 2014 according to the Energy Departments DOE WindExchange website far more than the 5446 MW that Iowa added over the same period. Perry helped spur investment in wind energy when he signed a 2005 bill that required Texas to dramatically increase its renewable energy capacity over the following decade. He also threw his support behind a 7 billion electrical transmission project to send renewable energy to communities across the state. Claim 3 From 2005 to 2017 this country has reduced emissions by 14 percent claimed Perry. In 2017 the U.S. emitted 5.1 billion metric tons of energy related carbon dioxide according to EIA data. This represents a 1 percent decrease from the previous year and a 14 percent decrease since 2005. Weighted by global warming potential carbon dioxide emissions accounted for 82 percent of total greenhouse gas emissions in 2017 according to a report from the Environmental Protection Agency. Gross greenhouse emissions fell from 7.3 billion metric tons in 2005 to 6.5 billion in 2017 a 12 percent reduction. Claim 4 When I first met you you were running for president the Department of Energy was one of the federal agencies that you thought was maybe extraneous said Cannon. In 2011 Perry ran for president as a Republican. During one presidential debate he said that he would abolish three federal agencies if elected naming the Commerce and Education Departments but infamously forgetting the third. He later clarified that the third agency was the DOE telling reporters Everybody tomorrow will understand the Energy Department is one of those that needs to be done away with. President Donald Trump announced that he would nominate Perryto serve as energy secretary in December 2016. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	True	False	False	True	True
While a sobering new UN report on climate change indicates humans might have little time to change our ways to avoid environmental catastrophe President Trump isnt worried pointing to scientists on both sides of the picture. Referencing an uncle who was a professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology whom he never spoke to about climate change as apparent proof of his scientific bona fides Trump told the Associated Press that he has a natural instinct for science and that the climate goes back and forth back and forth. The US president remains unconvinced that human activity is the cause of climate change. While he has backed away from a 2012 claim that the concept was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing noncompetitive he is now convinced that somethings changing and itll change back again according to aninterviewhe gave with 60 Minutes on Sunday. Trumps appointee to the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt notoriously attempted to roll back several key environmental regulations passed under Barack Obama including the Clean Power Plan the Clean Water Rule and a proposed ban on the pesticide chlorpyrifos. Pruitt also oversaw a 23 percent budget cut to the agency and filled science advisory panels with industry representatives instead of unaffiliated scientists. Trump may believe in climate change now but he remains convinced that scientists who see a human role in the process have a very big political agenda. Meanwhile he doesnt want to sacrifice the economic well being of our country for something that nobody really knows. While some Democrats favor bold moves to address climate change others perhaps still shell shocked by the failure of their 2009 cap and trade bill under Obama shy away from anything more than incremental measures citing the hostile political environment in Congress. Rep. Gerry Connolly D VA said Democrats should focus on the practical and the opportunistic in the short term while working toward big picture aspirational goals in the long term. Some might argue the concept of a long term when it comes to the environment was rendered irrelevant by the latest UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report. It projected that humans have until 2030 to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions if we want to avoid catastrophic climate change in the form of massive sea level rise increased drought permafrost melt and coral reef die offs. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	True	False	False	False	True
When it comes to unraveling liberal hypocrisy Fox News host Tucker Carlson is arguably the best man for the job. And on his show Friday it took Carlson just 90 seconds to completely dismantle liberal outrage over President Donald Trumps decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement on climate change. Progressives across the country and around the world expressed outrage this week over Trumps decision to withdraw from the agreement. But many of those expressing outrage including world famous Hollywood actors and businessmen typically fly around the world in private jets that expel mind boggling amounts of carbon dioxide the exact substance climate alarmists say is the cause of climate change. Carlson explained on his show Friday that despite the fact that those upset about Trumps decision have not bothered to explain whats actually in the Paris agreement they assure us that that deal is the solution to the single most gravest threat this planet has ever faced rising levels of atmospheric CO2. Theyre dead serious about that. You can tell by the outraged looks on their faces and the purple rhetoric Carlson said. But hold on for a minute. Can we really be sure that these people take carbon emissions seriously? To answer that question Carlson said his team compared what the progressives say to how they live. They examined the lives of billionaire businessmen Richard Branson Elon Musk and Bill Gates in addition to Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Hillary Clinton. Branson says fossil fuels are dangerous and he calls Trumps decision America first Earth last. Now on the other hand Branson owes a Desault Falcon 50EX private jet and it burns more fuel on a single flight to Maui than youre gonna go through in a lifetime of trips to the shore Carlson explained. Elon Musk meanwhile is mad about global warming too. Yet he flies around in a Gulfstream G6500ER. Bill Gates says hes deeply concerned yet he still commutes in a 62 million bombardier BD700 global express. Can you imagine the gas milage that gets? Carlson continued. Leonardo DiCaprio says Trumps move threatens the livability of our planet and yet DiCaprio flew a private jet 4000 miles from Cannes France to New York to accept a climate award and then flew back privately Carlson went on to explain. Hillary Clinton tweeted that Trumps pullout was a historic mistake that leaves American workers and families behind. And yet speaking of workers and their families there probably werent a lot of those onboard last year when Hillary used a private jet to fly 20 miles from Marthas Vineyard to Nantucket for a fundraiser Carlson added. Trump announced his decision to withdraw the U.S. from the climate deal which was agreed to under former President Barack Obama on Thursday.	True	True	False	True	True
So does that mean paper bags which degrade more easily are a better option? Not necessarily. Climate change has become the biggest environmental issue of our time so its worth looking at things from an emissions standpoint. And on that score paper bags fare worse. Even though paper bags are made from trees which are in theory a renewable resource it takes significantly more energy to create pulp and manufacture a paper bag than it does to make a single use plastic bag from oil. Back in 2011 Britains Environment Agency conducted a life cycle assessment of various bag options looking at every step of the production process. The conclusion? Youd have to reuse a paper bag at least three times before its environmental impact equaled that of a high density polyethylene plastic bag used only once. And if plastic bags were reused repeatedly they looked even better. Paper bags can more easily be recycled or even composted bu t the British study found that even these actions didnt make a huge difference in the broader analysis. Unless youre reusing your paper bags a lot they look like a poorer option from a global warming standpoint. That same British analysis also looked into reusable options like heavier more durable plastic bags or cotton bags. And it found that these are only sustainable options if you use them very frequently. Making a cotton shopping bag is hardly cost free. Growing cotton requires a fair bit of energy land fertilizer and pesticides which can have all sorts of environmental effects from greenhouse gas emissions to nitrogen pollution in waterways.	True	True	False	True	True
The much maligned rat is not a creature many would associate with coral reefs. But scientists studying reefs on tropical islands say the animals directly threaten the survival of these ecosystems. A team working on the Chagos Islands in the Indian Ocean found that invasive rats on the islands are a big problem for coral reefs. Rats decimate seabird populations in turn decimating the volume of bird droppings a natural coral fertiliser. The findings are published in Nature. Scientists now advocate eradicating rats from all of the islands to protect these delicate marine habitats. The Chagos Archipelago provided a large scale natural laboratory to answer this question although the islands are uninhabited by humans some of them are now home to invasive rats brought by ships and shipwrecks. Other islands have remained rat free. The islands with and without rats are like chalk and cheese said Prof Nick Graham from Lancaster University. The islands with no rats are full of birds they're noisy the sky is full and they smell because the guano the birds are depositing back on the island is very pungent. If you step onto an island with rats there's next to no seabirds. By killing seabirds this study revealed rats disrupt a healthy ecosystem that depends on the seabird droppings which fertilise the reefs surrounding the island. On rat free islands seabirds including boobies frigatebirds noddies shearwaters and terns travel hundreds of kilometres to feed out in the ocean. When they return to the island they deposit rich nutrients from the fish they feed on. These nutrients are leaching out onto the reef explained Prof Graham. He and his team were able to track the source of those nutrients back to the fish that seabirds fed on by analysing algae and sponges growing on the reef. We also found that fish on the reefs adjacent to islands with seabirds were growing faster and were larger for their age than the fish on reefs next to rat infested islands Prof Graham explained. There were also significantly more fish on rat free reefs than on those around ratty islands. Coral reefs cover less than 0.1 of the ocean's area but house about one third of ocean biodiversity. Coral reefs are also hugely threatened said Prof Graham. So anyone who cares about extinctions and biodiversity needs to care about the future of coral reefs. The reefs and their abundance of marine life provide livelihoods for millions of people around the world so the decline in coral reefs is poised to become a humanitarian crisis. This team of researchers advocates rat eradication projects on islands throughout the world. Coral reef systems are at crisis point because of climate change said Prof Graham. And we're desperately trying to find ways to enhance the resilience of coral reefs and allow them to cope with climate change. This is one of the clearest examples so far where eradicating rats will lead to increased numbers of seabirds and this will bolster the coral reef.	True	False	False	True	False
A mega blaze raging across a 60km 37 mile front north of the Australian city of Sydney cannot currently be put out fire officials have warned. The blaze across 300000 hectares 1150 sq m is just an hour's drive from the nation's most populous city. People who cannot defend their property from approaching fires have been told they should leave immediately. Since October bushfires have killed six people and destroyed more than 700 homes across Australia. The severity of the blazes so early in the fire season has caused alarm and prompted calls for greater action to tackle climate change. How are animals faring in the fires? Fires have also raged across Queensland Victoria South Australia Western Australia and Tasmania. What's the latest on the ground? Several fires have combined to form the mega blaze north of Sydney although more than a dozen locations are affected across New South Wales. At one point on Friday nine fires had been raised to emergency level warnings although these had decreased markedly amid a brief respite in conditions later in the day. The north Sydney blazes were sending black fumes across the city causing a rise in medical problems. New South Wales Rural Fire Service RFS deputy commissioner Rob Rogers told ABC We cannot stop these fires they will just keep burning until conditions ease and then we'll try to do what we can to contain them. He said the 60km stretch from Hawkesbury to Singleton was just fire that whole way. The RFS website listed five fires roughly in a line from Nullo Mountain to Wollombi as out of control at 0500 local time on Saturday 1800 GMT Friday with another out of control at Green Wattle Creek south west of Sydney. Video footage from the Orangeville area showed firefighters running from a wall of fire and the Walkabout Wildlife Park has evacuated hundreds of animals. The Bureau of Meteorology BOM also said that some fires were too big to put out. Fire officials in Ingleburn warned If your property is not prepared for the bushfire season and you're not sure you are able or capable of defending your property if a fire approaches you need to leave straight away. Firefighters from Canada were briefed in Sydney on Friday and will be deployed across New South Wales over the weekend to be joined by teams from the US. There appears to be little respite. RFS founder and former commissioner Phil Koperberg told the Sydney Morning Herald People are nervous and they have a right to be... the worst is yet to come. Tuesday is the next big concern with temperatures inland of Sydney likely to reach 40C plus. Some firefighters have expressed concern that volunteer numbers might not be enough and that there are inadequate water supplies. One said the fires were all ticking time bombs without rain those fires won't be put out. Sydney may be blanketed in smoke for weeks if not months RFS Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons said. Is this fire season particularly bad? It hasn't come close to the fatalities of 2009 when nearly 200 people died but the scale of the damage has been huge. How bad is bushfire smoke for health? More than 1.6 million hectares of land have burned in New South Wales alone. The season has hit earlier than normal and has been exacerbated by drought conditions. Mr Fitzsimmons said There is an absolute lack of moisture in the soil a lack of moisture in the vegetation... you are seeing fires started very easily and they are spreading extremely quickly and they are burning ridiculously intensely. The BOM says that climate change has led to an increase in extreme heat events and raised the severity of other natural disasters such as drought. Last week the bureau noted that NSW had endured its driest spring season on record. It also warned that Australia's coming summer was predicted to bring similar conditions to last year's the nation's hottest summer on record. Australia may see 50C days 'in decades' The government has been criticised over its efforts to address climate change. PM Scott Morrison has dismissed accusations linking the crisis to his government's policies. What could be wiped out by temperature rise Hundreds of bushfire survivors and farmers converged on the nation's capital Canberra this week in protest. One woman displayed the charred remains of her home outside Parliament on which she had written Morrison your climate crisis destroyed my home.	False	False	False	True	True
This story was originally published bytheGuardian. It appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration. When I was a ranger at Crater Lake national park in the 1980s the average snowfall at headquarters was 500 inches a year and snow could accumulate at 2 inches an hour. One of my jobs as ranger was to shovel out the fire hydrants every day so that if there was a fire in the hotel headquarters or housing wed be able to fight it. Our maintenance staff plowed roads for safe visitor access and rangers patrolled on skis regularly performing rescues. This was all part of ensuring that in accordance with the National Park Services founding charter the parks are unimpaired for the enjoyment of future generations. Leaving the parks open without these essential staff is equivalent to leaving the Smithsonian museums open without any staff to protect the priceless artifacts. Yet as a result of the government shutdown which furloughed most park staff this is what has happened. It is a violation of the stewardship mandate motivated only by politics. While the majority of the public will be respectful there will always be a few who take advantage of the opportunity to do lasting damage. In 2016 the NPS hosted 320 million visitors more than all of the Disney parks major league baseball football basketball soccer and Nascar combined. Many of our national parks operate much like a small city with the National Park Service employees providing all the same services trash collection police and fire response water and sewer systems electrical power bus service and parking management. The national parks differ from a city in that they are also designed to protect some of the United States most precious resources such as the Merced River of Yosemite Valley the elk and bison of Yellowstone and the iconic Lincoln Memorial. When Congress and the executive branches of government failed to appropriate funding in 1998 and 2013 the government shut down for extended periods and the national parks were closed to the public. The logic was that if the employees were furloughed and could not perform their stewardship and safety responsibilities then the only way to meet the requirements of unimpaired was to close the parks. During the 16 day shutdown of 2013 the closure of the national parks became the public face of the shutdown with thousands of articles in the press and recurring images of gates and park closure signs. There was enormous political pressure to reopen the parks culminating in a Republican House joint hearing where I as the NPS director was grilled for five hours over the decision to close the parks during the shutdown. Though unintended the closure of the national parks became a rallying cry for the public to force Congress to finally pass appropriation legislation and reopen the federal government. This time surely to avoid the public outcry theTrump administration decided to keep the national parks open while still furloughing the majority of the NPS staff. As the shutdown extends and the parks are left open we will begin to see the ugly consequences. Trash is already accumulating in parks such as Yosemite and will attract wildlife. This could result in tragic humanbear encounters or habituate bears to human food meaning the animals will have to be relocated or euthanized in the future. Civil war battlefield parks are seeing increases in artifact theft by people with metal detectors. Human waste has overwhelmed toilets at Joshua Tree and Point Reyes and has proliferated along trails rivers and streams potentially affecting water quality and certainly the visitor experience. Roads normally open in Mt. Rainier and Crater Lake national parks are accumulating so much snow that they will have to be bulldozed to reopenat a much higher expense and with prolonged delays. Visitor centers are closed across the parks depriving visitors of information on hazardous conditions trail closures and wildlife activity. Wildlife normally fully protected will be subject to poaching or threats such as the recent break in at the endangered Devils Hole pupfish enclosure in Nevada. Visitors to parks are reporting dogs off leash drone activity off highway vehicles and the public walking on or near fragile resources such as the hot pools and thermal features of Yellowstone. There are other consequences of a shutdown that are less visible but very consequential. The control of the spread of invasive species into national parks stops allowing some to gain a foothold that will be much harder to control. Long term monitoring sites that measure snow depth rainfall air quality water quality or pollution will go unmaintained. Research scientists working on complex issues that only occur during this period such as pronghorn migration may miss their window. These disruptions of data collection make the results less reliable for understanding ecosystem dynamics or climate change. Author Wallace Stegner once said that National parks are the best idea we ever had. Absolutely American absolutely democratic they reflect us at our best rather than our worst. Now left unattended and gathering trash and human waste the Trump administration has let them reflect us at our worst. Jonathan BJarvis was the 18thdirector of the National Park Service. He is now the executive director for the Institute for Parks People and Biodiversity at the University of California Berkeley.	False	False	False	False	False
GUILLERMO ARIAS via Getty Images A child in the caravan of roughly 7200 Central American migrants headed north to the U.S. Mexico border. Now with the White House poised to gut the federal governments only two major rules to reduce planet warming emissions and Trumpthreatening to cut aid to drought and violence afflicted Honduras Guatemala and El Salvador critics say the administrations strategy to deal with climate change is taking shape frustrating national security experts who say hunkering down and militarizing borders will do little to mitigate global warmings threats. A quasi fascist policy of fear mongering about immigration and corresponding militarization of the border is clearly the major thrust of Trumps response to the mounting impacts of climate chaos said Ashley Dawson author ofExtreme Cities The Peril and Promise of Urban Life in the Age of Climate Change. Despite the repeated dismissals of climate science by the president and many of his top advisers the Trump administration officially forecasts that the planet is expected to warm by 7 degrees Fahrenheit by the end of the century a projection buried in a 500 page environmental impact statement in August. Thats roughly double the temperature scientists say will cause cataclysmic drought storms and sea level rise and roughly four times the warming the planet has already experienced since the pre industrial era. Under those conditions more than 1 billion people globally could be forced to flee their homes by 2050 and2 billion by 2100. Tropical regions where many of the roughly20000 to 40000 migrants who crossed the U.S. southern border each month in the past year came from are expected to be hit the hardest. Its difficult to draw a direct line between climate change and a migrants decision to leave home and neither the United Nations nor nearly any other major countries currently offer legal avenues for asylum seekers fleeing the effects of global warming. New Zealandbecame the first country late last year to create a special status for climate refugees with 100 annual visas as low lying island nations in its corner of the Pacific face existential threat of sea level rise. On the opposite side of the ocean a hotter climate is expected to parch once fertile lands. In an email Jennifer Francis a Rutgers University climate researcher said its likely that increasing drought in Central America is making it more difficult for farmers there to make a living. The President had willing partners in Congress and could have worked on immigration border security DREAMers and all that Joseph Majkut director of climate policy at the Niskanen Center a libertarian think tank said in an email. But he didnt take advantage of that opportunity. Having missed the chance to seek actual reforms we now get a militaristic and hasty response to a predictable stress. Climate change is contributing to make nations unstable both nations in our neighborhood and others abroad said Femia whose Washington based policy institute includes former top national security advisers. The best way from a security perspective is to bolster the resilience of those countries so you reduce the likelihood of instability reduce the likelihood of conflict and reduce the likelihood of displacement that might force outward migration. That doesnt seem likely in the near term. The president attempted to cut funding forUnited States Agency for International Development by 33 percent this year though bipartisan support for the federal governments dedicated aid agency staved off the proposal. By deporting hundreds of thousands of Central Americans from the United States the administration like the Obama administration before it is bolstering gang recruitment in countries like El Salvador according to a December report from the International Crisis Group. That worsens the violence that many cite as a main reason for fleeing northward.	False	True	False	False	False
Thousands of European activists plan to blockade a large German lignite mine this week the latest protest of a growing climate civil disobedience movement. While school students have held Fridays for Future rallies for months protesters of the Extinction Rebellion group launched in Britain have risked arrest with more confrontational protests. From next Thursday to Monday Europe's veteran Ende Gelaende EG anti coal activists will hold their sixth large scale blockade of an open pit coal mine and power plants run by German energy giant RWE. The group's online action consensus says In view of the urgency of the climate crisis we consider it necessary and appropriate to go one step further from public protest to civil disobedience. Here is a look at this growing form of environmental activism. Tadzio Mueller a German organiser of the movement argues that massively breaking the rules ... is the only thing that works to prevent the status quo in the face of climate chaos. Azna Lecuyer of the French branch of Ende Gelaende agrees that we feel a passion for actions of civil disobedience especially among young people. This is reflected in demand for training courses everywhere and by the very rapid rise in skills of new activists. Lecuyer stresses that non violence is part of our action consensus it is forbidden to harm the security forces site employees or to damage the equipment. During past protests at the nearby Hambacher Forest police and RWE company staff have accused the most militant protesters of having hurled rocks or molotov cocktails. The Ende Gelaende movement has distanced itself from those environmental militants and any acts of violence. The EG activistsdressed in trademark white overalls symbolising the toxicity of fossil fuelsplan to march from their protest camp to the Garzweiler mine about 10 kilometres six miles away. They hope to evade police roadblocks and enter the vast open pit mining area to occupy strategic locations and technical infrastructure such as rails access roads and excavators. Meanwhile they plan to organise in so called affinity groups of up to 10 people of similar physical fitnessand a willingness to be arrested for trespassing and other offences. Before the protest activists attend training workshops to learn non violent resistance techniques such as locking their arms and legs in formation with names such as the little train or the turtle. What risks do protesters take? Occupying an industrial site is illegal under German law and volunteer legal advisers are on hand to support activists before and after they are arrested. They advise them to say as little as possible while in custody. Other risks lurk at the Garzweiler site. A vast moonscape like terrain where the surface can be unstable after rain or drought it is criss crossed by high power cables and dug up by building sized excavators. When breaking up protesters' blockades German police have in the past employed high powered water jets and pepper spray. Lecuyer says that some activists experience a form of trauma ... due to the high emotions from stress and excitement and the physical effort because you have to walk for miles in groups to the target pass police roadblocks sometimes under water cannon or pepper spray and then hold the blockade.	True	False	False	True	False
Using an approach described by experts as not scientifically sound the Trump administration will soon change the way it evaluates the harm from coal plants spewing more pollution into the air according to a Monday New York Times report. Trump's Environmental Protection Agency EPA is planning to release a new rule to measure the impact of air pollution on health risks. The rules will be favorable to dirty energy producers like the coal industry an industry that Trump's EPA chief Andrew Wheeler used to lobby for. And to allow that to happen experts told the Times the EPA's new rule will simply ignore decades of high quality research and use unfounded medical assumptions to claim that air pollution does less harm to people than peer reviewed scientific data indicates. One result of the new scientifically unsound method would be to magically decrease the 1400 premature deaths that Trump's changes to environmental rules were previously projected to cause. Trump's ultimate goal is to roll back improvements President Obama made that limit the pollution coal plants produce. Obama's rules would have reduced the amount of dangerous particulate matter in the air by gradually moving energy production to cleaner forms of energy and shutting down older dirtier coal plants. Particulate matter is extremely harmful and it leads to a large number of premature deaths Richard Revesz an environmental law expert at New York University told the Times. Trump wants to toss out the Obama era rules with ones that allow older coal plants to stay in business longer and continue risking lives by spewing particulates into the air. The person in charge of air quality at the EPA William Wehrum was a lawyer and lobbyist for the fossil fuel industry before joining the EPA. He admitted to the Times that the new method would allow the Trump administration to claim its other changes would cause fewer deaths. Trump has a long record of anti environment and anti science positions and so do his political appointees. Now those officials are preparing to discard sound scientific methods to pretend that their actions will be less deadly than they really are. Published with permission of The American Independent.	True	True	False	True	False
Newly released emails show senior Environmental Protection Agency officials working closely with a conservative group that dismisses climate change to rally like minded people for public hearings on science and global warming counter negative news coverage and promote Administrator Scott Pruitt's stewardship of the agency. John Konkus EPA's deputy associate administrator for public affairs repeatedly reached out to senior staffers at the Heartland Institute according to the emails. If you send a list we will make sure an invitation is sent Konkus wrote to then Heartland president Joseph Bast in May 2017 seeking suggestions on scientists and economists the EPA could invite to an annual EPA public hearing on the agency's science standards. Follow up emails show Konkus and the Heartland Institute mustering scores of potential invitees known for rejecting scientific warnings of man made climate change including from groups like Plants Need CO2 The Right Climate Stuff and Junk Science. The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency especially when it comes to climate changing carbon emissions. They were obtained by the Environmental Defense Fund and the Southern Environmental Law Center which sued to enforce a Freedom of Information Act request and provided them to The Associated Press. The EPA maintains close working relationships with a broad range of public and private groups and Heartland is just one of many the agency engages with to ensure the public is informed said EPA spokesman Lincoln Ferguson. It demonstrates the agency's dedication to advancing President Trump's agenda of environmental stewardship and regulatory certainty he said. The public hearing referred to in the May 2017 email ultimately was canceled when the EPA official who runs it fell ill the EPA said. But Bast contended in an email sent to EPA staffers and others that the official called off the hearing after learning that climate change skeptics planned to attend. The Heartland Institute calls itself a leading free market think tank. It rejects decades of science saying fossil fuel emissions are altering the climate and says on its website that curbing use of petroleum and coal to fight climate change would squander one of America's greatest comparative advantages among the world's nations. Of course The Heartland Institute has been working with EPA on policy and personnel decisions Tim Huelskamp a former Republican congressman from Kansas who now leads the group said in a statement to the AP. They recognized us as the pre eminent organization opposing the radical climate alarmism agenda and instead promoting sound science and policy Huelskamp wrote. He said Heartland would continue to help Pruitt and his staff. Ferguson said Pruitt and his top officials have also met with groups known for their campaigns against climate changing emissions and pollutants from fossil fuels including the Moms Clean Air Force the American Lung Association and others. But Ben Levitan of the Environmental Defense Fund said mainstream climate change groups have received nothing like the outreach and invitations that Heartland and other hard right groups have been getting. Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a non profit promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform. Heartland is not registered as a lobbying group. Spokesman Jim Lakely said the group has logged its contacts with EPA and that they fall below the level required for disclosing as lobbying. An email last February shows Bast forwarded to followers an email with the line From the White House rallying activists to public hearings the EPA was then holding around the country on repealing an Obama era power plan meant to curb fossil fuel emissions. The email is signed by a Pruitt political appointee and gives the name of another EPA official for activists to call. It's not clear from the email however who initiated the attempt to rally conservatives for the public hearing. Konkus was a Republican political consultant when Pruitt named him to the agency. His duties include reviewing awards of hundreds of millions of dollars in federal grants. The Washington Post reported in September that Konkus had been scrutinizing grant applications for mentions of climate change which he reportedly calls the double C word. Emails show he and former EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman repeatedly reached out to Heartland to talk over critical coverage by the Post. Lakely the Heartland spokesman responds he's shared the article with colleagues asking them to jump to your aide sic and defend this position. Konkus also contacted Heartland and other conservative groups asking for what he calls echo amplifying word of Pruitt's regulation cutting efforts according to the emails. And an email from Bast shared with EPA staffers and others shows the then Heartland president celebrating news that a reporter Justin Gillis was leaving The New York Times. Ding Dong the Witch is Dead. Still waiting for Chris Mooney and Juliet Eilperin at the WaPo and Seth Borenstein at AP to flame out Bast writes. Spokespeople for the AP The Washington Post and The New York Times declined comment.	False	True	False	True	False
California's reign as the U.S. state with the worst air pollution continuesas Los Angeles is again the nation's smoggiest metro area according to a report released Wednesday. LAisn't alone when it comes to smog chokedcities in California seven of the nation's top 10 smoggiest cities are in the Golden State including other sprawling cities such as San Francisco San Diego and Sacramento. Los Angeles has had the worst smog for 19 years of the 20 year history of the report. The bad news came fromthe American Lung Association's annual State of the Air report which covers the years 2015 2017. Smog forms on warm sunny days and is made worse by chemicals that exit vehicle tailpipes and power plant and industrial smokestacks. Warmer temperatures make ozone more likely to form. The report covers the two main types of air pollution that plague the USA smog also known as ground level ozone and soot technically known as particulate matter. Want news from USA TODAY on WhatsApp?Click this link on your mobile device to get started The news isn't any good in California when it comes to soot eitherFresno has the nation's highest levels of that form of air pollution and sixof the nation's 10 sootiest cities are again in California. Soot pollution is deadlier and more of a health hazard than smog causingmore premature deaths and lung cancer the lung association said. California's air quality is worsening despite having the strongest environmental regulations in the nation said John Balmes of the University of California San Francisco at a news conference Tuesday. California's soaring population and topography allow air pollution to overcome the state's strict environmental laws the lung association said. The boom in people brings an increase in cars and trucks on the roads and many of those people live in valleys and basins right where pollution tends to settle. Nearly year round sunny skies don't help Those picture perfect days are a major factor in high levels of ozone pollution. The state would be much worse off without its strict laws on tailpipe pollution and eliminating coal fired power plants. The bad news about air pollutionspread nationwide in thereport Smog and soot choked air is worsening amid heat waves and bigger wildfires as environmental protections are rolled back. Many cities increased the number of days when sootsoared to record breaking levels the report says andmore cities suffered from higher numbers of days when smogreached unhealthy levels. About 141 million Americans live with unhealthful levels of air pollution the report says placing them at risk for premature death lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm. This is a higher number than either of the reports from 2017 and 2018. On the other end of the scale only six metro areas recorded no days when smog or short term soot pollution reached unhealthy levels according to the report Bangor Maine Burlington Vermont Honolulu Lincoln Nebraska Wilmington North Carolina and the Melbourne Florida metro area.	True	False	True	False	True
Governor Jerry Brown has expressed an interest in barring the sale of vehicles powered by internal combustion engines Mary Nichols chairman of theCalifornia Air Resources Board said in an interview Friday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.The earliest such a ban is at least a decade away she said. Brown one of the most outspoken elected official in the U.S. about the need for policies to combat climate change would be replicating similar moves by China France and the U.K. Ive gotten messages from the governor asking Why havent we done something already? Nichols said referring to Chinas planned phase out of fossil fuel vehicle sales. The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California. To reach the ambitious levels of reduction in greenhouse gas emissions we have to pretty much replace all combustion with some form of renewable energy by 2040 or 2050 Nichols said. Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward. Instituting such a policy in California would affect the entire car industry globally due to the massive size of Californias car market. Over2 million new passenger vehicles were sold and registered in the nations most populous state last year more thanthan the entire nations of Spain France and Italy. California has had the right to write its own pollution rules since the 1970s underwaivers granted by the EPA. But its unlikelythe Trump administration wouldapprove such a plan forcing California to take a different legal route. According to Motor Trendmagazine Nichols saysCalifornia is consideringregulating the types of cars that can be registered in the state or have access to highways. We certainly wouldnt expect to get a waiver for that from the EPA she toldBloomberg. I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get that result. China plans to endsales of combustion enginevehicles in 2030. Other countries like France and the U.K. plan to follow suit a decade later. California has not yet specified a date to copy Chinas policy. Tim Donnellyis a former California State Assemblyman and Author currently on a book tour for his new bookPatriot Not Politician Win or Go Homeless. He also ran for governor in 2014.	False	False	False	False	True
The American political conversation about climate is indeed scary and depressing. But the decarbonization of the real U.S. economy as opposed to the cardboard fossil fuel handicapped White House version continues. Indeed decarbonization is accelerating giving me confidence that in a year or so it will be clear to everyone that the U.S. is on track to meet and perhaps exceed its inadequate 2025 Paris objective cutting emissions 26 28 percent. That goal requires reducing emissions by 1800 million tons of CO2.At the end of 2016 the U.S. was almost halfway emissions down 850 million tons or 13 percent.This progress was led by the utility sector where efficiency renewables and natural were replacing coal so fast that power sector carbon was down 25 percent. The world rightfully worries when they hear Donald Trump proclaim he is going to bring back coal and watch the administration and the Republican Congress try to roll back such common sense requirements limits on the wasteful flaring and leaking of methane from oil and gas fields. But Trumps promise to have America withdraw from the Paris climate agreement has sparked a stunning wave of climate leadership from U.S. cities states and businesses a wave that is still building but by the time it crests may more than make up for Trumps stubborn foot dragging. Lets begin with bringing back coal. Since Trump was elected no new coal plants have been announced or opened 10 plants with 5600 megawatts instead have announced they will shut down. West Virginias largest utility wont expand coal generation because it cant find customers for coal power CSX a leading coal hauling railroad thinks coal is going away so fast that it has stopped replacing coal rail cars.Nowthe Sierra Club has estimated that additional coal plants whose retirement have already been announced would cut emissions about 160 million tons. Closing vulnerable plants facilities that no longer make economic sense to keep operating could avoid another 275 million tons. If present trends continue the club also documented that the U.S. could triple renewable electricity overall the utility sector should be emitting 500 million tons of carbon less in 2025 than it was just last year. While coal fades state governments representing almost 60 percentof the American economy are racing forward.In January California released its plan to cut its emissions by 40 percent by 2030 and went on to extend its cap and trade program for another decade until 2030 this time with support for the first time from the oil industry! California is also on the verge of requiring 100 percent of its power to come from renewables. Overall a dozen states are debating increasing their reliance on renewable power.Maryland just established a 25 percent renewable power goal overriding the veto of a Republican governor. The Nevada legislature went for 40 percent but has not yet been able to overturn a similar veto. The 15early adaptor states in the Climate Alliance will report this week that they are already on track to reduce their 2025 emissions by 24 29 percent. And some of Americas most Republican climate skeptical states Oklahoma Kansas North Dakota and even Texas are steadily replacing coal with renewables for economic reasons. These dont usually get counted in reporting on bottom up climate action but they have a huge positive impact on emissions. Whether their state legislatures and governors are leading on climate or not Americas cities where most of our climate pollution originates are embracing a decarbonized future.In June when Trump promised to pull out of the Paris agreement 125 cities told the world we are still in the Paris agreement.Today only three months later the number has ballooned to 238. The U.S. Conference of Mayors representing more than 1000 of Americas largest cities voted unanimously to endorse the goal of 100 percent renewable power and since Trumps election the number of U.S. cities with 100 percent policies has mushroomed more than 40 cities are now committed individually and five have hit that target! But government is not alone.The private sector where companies are increasingly competing with each other to succeed in the carbon free economy of the future is making Trumps climate denial braggadocio increasingly irrelevant. The Mars Candy Company recently committed a billion dollars to ensure that its operations and supply chain would reduce their climate impact by 67 percent by 2050. The number of companies who have signed the pledge of support for the Paris agreement has almost doubled from 906 in June to 1729 this week. And global firms will impact the U.S. climate footprint. VW announced a few days ago that it will offer electric versions of all its models entering the competition against current global EV leader U.S. based Tesla which delivered its first Model 3 in July. It is true the Trump administration is struggling to hold back the future with appalling decisions like EPAs recent announcement that it would delay cleaning up toxic water pollution from coal power plants for two years.But the courts are steadily shredding much of this the conservative 10th circuit just ruled that Trump must consider climate impacts before issuing new coal leases on federal lands. As the CEO of one of Americas historically coal dependent utilities Tom Fanning of the Southern Company says You cant keep waves off the beach.King Canute knew this. And the decarbonization of the American economy the real economy not the fake news economy shows its still true.The world can see and measure America is still in.	False	True	False	True	False
Low lying Pacific atolls United Nations officials warn are on the front line of climate change due to rising sea levels are on the whole stable or increasing in sizeaccording to a study. The study published in the journal WIREs Climate Change in September adds to the growing evidence that small island nations in the Pacific and Indian Oceans are proving resilient to rising seas in the face of predictions they may eventually become uninhabitable. In total 88.6 of islands were either stable or increased in size author Virginie K. E. Duvat of the University of La Rochelle wrote in thestudy. Importantly islands located in ocean regions affected by rapid sea level rise showed neither contraction nor marked shoreline retreat which indicates that they may not be affected yet by the presumably negative that is erosive impact of sea level rise Duvat wrote. That may come as a shock in light of reports that Pacific Islanders in places like Kiribati are becoming climate refugees because of rising sea levels which many scientists blame on greenhouse gas emissions. When the United Nations met in 2015 to hash out the Paris climate accord Kiribati joined other island nations in calling for an international agreement to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. Its a matter of survival former Kiribati President Anote Tong said after meeting with former U.S. President Barack Obama that year. Nearly 200 countries eventually signed onto the Paris climate accord. A 2017 CBS News feature on Kiribatis plight claimed that scientists predict the island nation could be uninhabitable within decades and that high tides that inundate their homes already contaminate their water and kill their crops. However Duvats study found Kiribatis North Tarawa island chain was stable with most islands gaining land and that the South Tarawa chain actually increased in size showing the most growth of any atoll studied. In another case one Maldives official predicted rising sea levels would completely cover this Indian Ocean nation of 1196 small islands within the next 30 years. That warning was made in 1988 amid heightened urgency about global warming. Instead Duvatfound that more than 70 percent of the Maldives Huvadhoo islands were stable and that 6 percent had increased in size and only 23 percent decreased in size. The reanalyzed global data reveal that atolls did not lose land area and that 73.1 of islands were stable in land area including most settled islands while 15.5 of islands increased and 11.4 decreased in size Duvat wrote. Scientists worry that future warming could pose problems for low lying islands many of which are no more than a few feet above the water but other human interventions ocean currents and storms likely exert an even bigger role than climate changes. For example Duvat found that land reclamation and causeway construction caused major changes in island land area and configuration not only in urban but also in rural atolls. Also the removal and the clearing of the native vegetation respectively caused marked changes in island configuration and shoreline destabilization on some islands Duvat wrote. Studies have increasingly shown theres been no widespread disappearance of low lying atolls and coral islands have despite rising sea levels. RELATED North Carolina Gov Roy Cooper Says New Green Policies Will Lessen The Impact Of Hurricanes The United Nations latest reportin October noted that models and other evidence indicate that unconstrained Pacific atolls have kept pace with sea level rise with little reduction in size or experienced a net gain in land. Indeed a February study by New Zealand researcher Paul Kench found eight of Tuvalus nine atolls and three quarters of its reef islands grew over the last four decades. The study findings may seem counter intuitive given that sea level has been rising in the region over the past half century but the dominant mode of change over that time on Tuvalu has been expansion not erosionKench said in February. The U.N. report however also warns that with continued warming Small islands are projected to be at risk and very sensitive to coastal climate change and other stressors. Duvat found only instability on islands smaller than 25 acres but even then only a small number actually decreased in size.	True	False	False	True	False
The shift in government policy likely will force Musk and his investors to revamp his sprawling business empire which relies on government subsidies and on preferencesfor solar energy over natural fuels. For examplethe Los Angeles Times reported in 2015 thatMusks battery factory in Reno Nevada is reported to have enjoyed roughly 1.3 billion in state subsidies and his SolarCity companyhas gotten 1.5 billion from federal solar regulations. In California the state legislature allowed his Tesla Motors to sell more than 500 million worth of government granted carbon energy credits said the Los Angeles Times and the states anti pollution agency allows theowners of battery operated cars to use low traffic high occupancy lanes in gridlocked Los Angeles. Musks solar energy company in New York state has reportedly gained 1 billion in near term and short term investment from Democratic politicians said the newspaper. However those financial gains for Musk depend on higher energy taxes for the nations established manufacturing sectors especially in Midweststates.Breitbart described the economic impact of the climate agreement Unsurprisingly Musk is a strong advocate for growing carbon taxes on natural fuels. In a January 2017 interview with Gizmodo Musk declared CO2 carbon diooxide isnt exactly pollution but it does cause warming and slight acidification of water if very large quantities are dug from deep underground and added to the surface cycle. The problem is the age old tragedy of the commons. The common good being consumed is atmospheric and oceanic carbon capacity which currently has a price of zero. This results in an error in market signals and far more CO2 is generated than should be. We wont ever go to zero CO2 but the rate over time should be dropped far below what it is today. Start low and increase it until the desired outcome is achieved. This can be offset by a reduction in other taxes like sales tax which is quite regressive. This is analogous to taxing cigarettes and alcohol more than fruits and vegetables which everybody agrees makes sense. We should have higher taxes on the things that science says are probably bad for us than those that are probably good for us. New York investors including Goldman Sachs have made big bets on the preservation of the Paris deal according to The HuffingtonPost.	True	False	False	True	True
The internal combustion engines days may be numbered in California where officials are mulling whether a ban on sales of polluting autos is needed to achieve long term targets for cleaner air. Governor Jerry Brown has expressed an interest in barring the sale of vehicles powered by internal combustion engines Mary Nichols chairman of the California Air Resources Board said in an interview Friday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.The earliest such a ban is at least a decade away she said. Brown one of the most outspoken elected official in the U.S. about the need for policies to combat climate change would be replicating similar moves by China France and the U.K. Ive gotten messages from the governor asking Why havent we done something already? Nichols said referring to Chinas planned phase out of fossil fuel vehicle sales. The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California. Embracing such a policy would send shockwaves through the global car industry due to the heft of Californias auto market. More than 2 million new passenger vehicles were registered in the state last year topping France Italy or Spain. If a ban were implemented automakersfrom General Motors Co. to Toyota Motor Corp. would be under new pressure to make electric vehicles the standard for personal transportation in the most populous U.S. state casting fresh doubts on the future of gasoline and diesel powered autos elsewhere. The Association of Global Automakers said consumers must be able to afford the cleaner cars that California says are needed to meet its climate goals. The trade association represents Toyota Honda Motor Co. and other overseas carmakers in the U.S. We have been working with California on intelligent market based approaches to emissions reductions beyond 2025 and we hope that this doesnt signal an abandonment of that position Global Automakers Chief Executive Officer John Bozzella said in a statement. California has set a goal to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 80 percent from 1990 levels by 2050. Rising emissions from on road transportation has undercut the states efforts to reduce pollutionaccording to Next 10 San Francisco based non profit. To reach the ambitious levels of reduction in greenhouse gas emissions we have to pretty much replace all combustion with some form of renewable energy by 2040 or 2050 Nichols said. Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward. California has the authority to write its own pollution rules which dates back to the 1970 Clean Air Act. Those rules are underpinned by waivers granted by the Environmental Protection Agency. Nichols said the state would likely take a different legal route to enable a possible ban rather than use an EPA waiver since the Trump administration would be unlikely to approve one. For example California could use vehicle registration rules or control the vehicles that can access state highways she said. We certainly wouldnt expect to get a waiver for that from EPA Nichols said. I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get to that result. Read more California Sets Demands for Auto Emission Talks With Trump China will likely order an end to sales of all polluting vehicles by 2030 the chairman of electric carmaker BYD Co. said Thursday. France and the U.K. have announced 2040 as their end date for sales of fossil fuel powered cars. A ban for California could also still be decades away from implementation and just how far out remains to be seen Nichols said. There are people who believe including who work for me that you could stop all sales of new internal combustion cars by 2030. Some people say 2035 some people say 2040 she said. Its awfully hard to predict any of that with precision but it doesnt appear to be out of the question.	False	False	False	True	False
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd our email newsletter. WASHINGTON The Trump administration has completed its plan to roll back major offshore drilling safety regulations that were put in place after the Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster in 2010 that killed 11 people and caused the worst oil spill in American history. The Interior Departments Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement which was established after the spill in the Gulf of Mexico and regulates offshore oil and gas drilling has finalized a proposal for loosening the regulations as part of President Trumps efforts to ease restrictions on fossil fuel companies and encourage domestic energy production. The rules created potentially unduly burdensome requirements for oil and natural gas production operators on the Outer Continental Shelf without meaningfully increasing safety of the workers or protection of the environment says the new 176 page rule which is scheduled in the coming days to be published in the Federal Register before becoming the administrations final policy. This rule supports the administrations objective of facilitating energy dominance by encouraging increased domestic oil and gas production and reducing unnecessary burdens on stakeholders while ensuring safety and environmental protection the new rule says.	True	False	False	False	True
President Trump Donald John TrumpSunday shows preview Shutdown negotiations continue after White House immigration proposal Rove warns Senate GOP Don't put only focus on base Ann Coulter blasts Trump shutdown compromise We voted for Trump and got Jeb! MOREin an early morning tweet on Sunday suggested global warming could be helpful as a massive snowstorm dropped several inches of snow and sent temperatures plunging across the Midwest and swaths of the Northeast United States. Be careful and try staying in your house Trump advised. Large parts of the Country are suffering from tremendous amounts of snow and near record setting cold. Amazing how big this system is. Wouldnt be bad to have a little of that good old fashioned Global Warming right now! The president who hasrepeatedly cast doubt on the existence and effects of climate change has regularly cited significant winter storms to mock the concept of global warming. He sent similar tweets in 2017 and 2011. The current winter storm prompted the governor of Kansas to declare a state of emergency canceled thousands of flights and dumped more than a foot of snow across most of upstate New York. Falling temperatures were expected to create icy surfaces further increasing the risk of travel. Trump and others who deny climate change have cited cold temperatures and winter storms to dismiss global warming but experts have noted there is a difference between the climate and weather. A government report issued late last yearconcluded that climate change could cost the United States billions of dollars annually within decades if greenhouse gases arent dramatically reduced and could worsen environmental disasters like wildfires and flooding. Its findings aligned with those of the broader scientific community. The study mandated to be released every four years under the National Climate Assessment from the multiagency Global Change Research Program was conducted by hundreds of government and external scientists. Trump dismissedthe report saying he did not believe its findings and disputing that climate change is man made.	True	True	True	True	False
BERLIN Green parties in Germany France Britain and elsewhere celebrated big gains in elections for the 751 seat European Parliament amid growing voter concerns over climate change expressed in large scale student protests over recent months. Provisional results Monday showed the left leaning Greens bloc coming fourth in the election with 69 seats an increase of 17 compared with 2014. If confirmed the results could put the Greens in a position to tip the scales when it comes to choosing the next head of the European Commission. The rise of the Greens with their distinctly pro European Union stance marks a counterpoint to that of the far right anti migrant parties that have been growing in popularity across Europe in recent years. Whoever wants legitimacy from us and the legitimacy of the many who went onto the streets will need to deliver now said Sven Giegold a leading candidate for the German Green party that scooped up more than 20 of the vote nationwide an increase of almost 10 compared with 2014. READ MORE Europes voters elect new parliament as nationalism mounts voters elect new parliament as nationalism mounts The drift from the traditional heavyweight parties to the Greens in Germany was particularly pronounced in large cities such as Berlin Munich and Hamburg and among young voters where the party beat its bigger rivals among all voters under 60 according to the Infratest dimap research institute. Armin Laschet the governor of Germanys most populous state North Rhine Westphalia and a member of Chancellor Angela Merkels center right Union bloc called the outcome a wake up call for politics. In neighboring France 25 of voters aged 18 25 voted for the Greens compared with 15 for the far right National Rally and 12 for President Emmanuel Macrons Republic on the Move according to the Ifop polling organization. Overall the French green party EELV received almost 13.5 of the vote coming third. Yannick Jadot lead candidate of EELV welcomed the great green wave in Europe. The French sent us a very clear message they want environment to be at the heart of our lives at the heart of the political game and that message has been spread across Europe he said. The very good score of the greens in Germany Luxembourg Belgium and France sends a signal that the center of gravity of the European politics is shifting that in addition to the populists and the pro business parties there are the Greens Jadot said. Green parties also polled strongly in Austria Sweden Ireland Denmark and the Netherlands. In Britain the Greens a largely insignificant force nationally took 11 seats in the European Parliament vote. This was kind of a vote for all europhile and pro integration positions the Greens have championed Martin Florack a political scientist at the University of Duisburg Essen told German public broadcaster ARD. The enmity was reflected in comments by Alexander Gauland the co leader of the far right Alternative for Germany party who declared the Greens our main enemy on Monday. The Greens will destroy this country and our job must and will be to fight the Greens said Gauland whose party has claimed climate change isnt a man made phenomenon but instead caused by factors such as solar activity a theory most scientists dismiss. A senior member of the anti immigration and euroskeptic Danish Peoples Party Kenneth Kristensen Berth said the issues of the climate and the environment were a bit hysterical during the election but insisted that Denmarks second largest political group is not a climate denial party. Among those celebrating the Greens rise was Biggi Tran a 26 year old in Berlin. She attributed the result to young peoples fears about global warming. The climate issue is super important at the moment Tran said. Manuel Rivera a Green party member in the Germany capital said the European Parliament was the right place to tackle climate change. I think people realize that there are issues you cant solve at the national level he said. Giegold the German Greens lead candidate said voters expect the party to deliver on its environmental pledges not secure powerful posts in the executive European Commission. Across Europe this was a vote to protect the climate he said. People didnt take to the streets to elect or kick out a party but for these problems to be solved. Green lawmakers in the European Parliament plan to scrutinize the blocs 200 billion euro 223.7 billion agriculture budget which environmentalists say places too much emphasis on large scale farming and not enough on eco friendly agriculture he said. The Greens also want every law passed at the EU level to undergo a climate check. The party has strongly backed scientists calls for the bloc to end all greenhouse gas emissions by mid century. Achieving this goal would require a drastic shift in Europes economy away from fossil fuels to clean energy and low carbon lifestyles. Some measures proposed for cutting emissions have already faced strong headwind including Macrons plan for a fuel tax hike in France that triggered protests from workers even as environmentalists accused the president of not doing enough for the climate. Sylvie Corbet in Paris and Kirsten Grieshaber in Berlin contributed to this report. 	False	False	False	False	False
As Hurricane Michael pummeled the Gulf coast a less deadly but equally ferocious media storm formed around Florida Governor Rick Scott whose alleged climate change denial has been blamed for putting Floridians in harm's way. Viral videos New York Times op eds and Guardian contributors all highlighted Rick Scott's backward stance on climate change after Michael a powerful typhoon made landfall along the Florida Panhandle. According to these media reports and commentaries Scott's science denial has endangered Florida residents. In other words if Scott were more vocal about man made climate change Florida would have been better prepared for or perhaps could have even prevented the devastating hurricane. Florida is the state most endangered by climate change declares a video published by Now This. But Gov. Scott's strategy for dealing with it is denial. The New York Times' Nicholas Kristof also took Scott to task for his stance on climate change writing that alas denying climate change doesn't actually prevent it. He added Some folks will say this isn't the moment for politics. But don't we have a responsibility to mitigate the next disaster? It's true that Scott who is currently running for the Senate has shown little interest in highlighting or combating the alleged dangers of climate change. In 2015 after the governor took office the Florida Department of Environment was reportedly banned from using the terms climate change and global warming. Two years later Scott signed a bill that critics dubbed the anti science law which allows residents to file complaints about instructional materials used in public schools. Scott has a section on his website dedicated to environmental issues but it is curiously absent of any direct mentions of climate change. However his website does note that Scott fought to protect Florida's coastline by getting Florida removed from consideration for offshore oil drilling and securing millions of dollars in state funding to help local governments with coastal resilience projects and sea level rise planning. On the campaign trail Scott has dodged questions about climate change resorting to responses such as I'm not a scientist to avoid weighing in on the subject. The motive behind Scott's alleged science denial has also received media attention. Last year the Tampa Bay Times alleged that Scott's personal business ties to the energy industry may be the reason for the state's legislative inaction on climate change. The paper claimed that Scott had hefty investments in petroleum companies that oppose restrictions on greenhouse gases and other environmental regulations. READ MOREHurricane Michael shuts in 40 off Gulf of Mexico oil production The Florida governor hasn't been the only one singled out by the media for his backward views however. According to The Guardian anyone who isn't a fervent believer in man made climate change is to blame for Hurricane Michael even the hurricane's victims. Victims of Hurricane Michael voted for climate deniersreads the headline an op ed published in The Guardian on Thursday. Elections have consequences. Denying science has consequences. And we are reaping what we sow the subhead states matter of factly. The headline was later amended to Victims of Hurricane Michael are represented by climate deniers. Climate deniers are making these storms worse by stopping action on climate change. What the hell do we expect to happen when the deniers are writing the laws? the commentary penned by John Abraham a professor of thermal sciences asks rhetorically. Social media users appeared to largely line up behind the allegations hurled at Scott although some seemed unconvinced that the governor was at fault. Rick Scott can ban the term all he wants in FLORIDA. Climate change is real one Twitter user wrote. He's bought and paid for claimed another. Others were less accusatory. It's not our words that are negatively affecting the atmosphere. It's the damage we are doing to the planet one Twitter user noted in response to the Now This video. Lol. Like the weather would give a crap if he went mute a netizen observed. At least six people have been killed as a result of Hurricane Michael the third most powerful storm ever to hit the US mainland according to officials. The hurricane made landfall as a Category 4 storm but later weakened to a Category 1 on Wednesday night. As Hurricane Michael gradually loses strength however it appears that the media storm over the consequences of climate change denial is only growing. Will the devastation wrought by Michael and all future hurricanes be laid at the feet of science deniers? Like this story? Share it with a friend!	True	False	False	True	False
Mark Miller of Pacific Legal Foundation an anti regulation law group that has won 10 out of 12 Supreme Court cases it has pursued told BuzzFeed News it is too soon to tell exactly how a replacement for Kennedy would change environmental law. You couldnt predict how Justice Kennedy was going to decide things over his thirty some years. Reliably hard to predict Kennedy was more interested in nuanced and scientific arguments than some of the more conservative judges with a stricter anti regulation outlook David Doniger of the Natural Resources Defense Council told BuzzFeed News. Clearly over the years he has been in a different spot from the other judges. Trump has said he will choose Kennedys replacement from a short list of 25 candidates . If that holds true the new court will likely be harder to convince of the importance of environmental laws. He was a gettable fifth vote on decisions Bookbinder said. Things are more daunting without him. He will be missed David Bookbinder of the Niskanen Center who was the Sierra Clubs chief climate counsel in the 2007 Massachusetts v. EPA decision that designated greenhouse gasses as pollution under the Clean Air Act. But during his 30 year tenure Kennedy was also the key vote on fundamental environmental decisions. Environmental lawyers are worried about tough times ahead for new laws restricting pollution and protecting wildlife. Kennedy announced his retirement Wednesday prompting an immediate political scramble over his successor and opening the door for new legal fights on hot button social issues such as abortion and gay marriage. Miller suggested that the Endangered Species Act would be the first environmental issue to take the stage on a Kennedy less court A dispute over the endangered dusky gopher frog Weyerhaeuser v. US Fish and Wildlife Service FWS is now on the courts docket in the fall. That fight is over 1500 acres of forest in Louisiana that the FWS designated as critical habitat for the survival of the species even though the frogs dont live on it. The owners of the forest are challenging the government agencys ability to declare property as critical habitat when a species doesnt live on it as well as the government not taking economic costs into account in making such designations. Further down the road experts expect a fight over which of the nations waterways are actually protected under the Clean Water Act to return to the Supreme Court which sent lawsuits on this issue to district courts in January. Those lawsuits are challenging the Environmental Protection Agencys protection of some streams and waterways under rules narrowly written to conform to a 414 Rapanos v. United States decision made in 2006 where the 1 was Kennedy. The conservative wing of the court wanted to limit EPAs oversight to only big navigable waterways in that case and the liberal justices wanted essentially all small wetlands and streams protected too but Kennedy ended up creating middle ground. He said the government should only be able to regulate smaller waterways that have a significant nexus with major ones. So there was no majority opinion. Because all spaces protected under Kennedys one vote opinion also would be protected under the four liberal justices view however his opinion is the one that effectively controlled decisions going forward. In this case his lone opinion became the law Bookbinder said. Thats how pivotal he was. More lawsuits are expected on this in response to Trumps EPA drafting its own controversial water rule. One area legal experts are split on is whether the 2007 decision that greenhouse gases are pollutants will be reconsidered. Theres a been a lot of focus on whether that case will be reversed by a new majority Joseph Goffman executive director of Harvards Environmental Law Program told BuzzFeed News. While he doesnt dismiss this possibility out of hand hes more concerned by the court incrementally chipping away at the governments authority to regulate climate pollution in other ways. NRDCs Doniger pointed out the landmark decision has been twice reaffirmed by the court. At the same time it had already started to chip away at EPAs power to regulate greenhouse gasses in 2016 by halting enforcement of the Obama administrations Clean Power Plan aimed at curbing emissions from power plants. The Trump administration has since said it was pulling back that plan. Chief Justice John Roberts over the years has not been consistently opposed to environmental regulation or plain readings of pollution laws Doniger added suggesting that environmental plaintiffs in cases may turn their strategy to garnering his vote. And while there were many close cases involving the environment that came to the court during Kennedys 30 years there environmental advocates noted that not all of those cases were close. Its not like every environmental case was decided 54 Doniger said. There are plenty of 63 or 72 cases where environmentally sound decisions in our view were made. So you really cant say the sky is falling.	False	False	False	True	False
The head of the Environmental Protection Agency has said America has nothing to apologise for on climate change and retains a seat at the negotiating table claiming After all were the United States. Scott Pruitt joined other officials in declining to say whether Donald Trump believes human activity contributes to climate change a day after the president pulled America out of the landmark Paris agreement. Pruitt claimed Trump wants better terms within the Paris framework or an entirely new deal and dismissed warnings from world leaders that it is not negotiable. Well thats up to them right? the EPA administrator told reporters. The United States has a seat at the table. After all were the United States and we are leading with respect to CO2 reduction. We have made tremendous progress. If nations around the globe want to seek to learn from us on what were doing to reduce our CO2 footprint were going to share that with them and thats something that should occur and will occur in the future. We will reach out and reciprocate with nations that seek to achieve that. Trump announced on Thursday that the US the worlds second biggest greenhouse gas emitter would immediately stop implementing the 195 nation agreement brokered by Barack Obama in 2015. There was a global backlash and the EU said on Friday it will increase cooperation with China to combat climate change. Pruitt denied that America has abandoned the victims of climate change around the world arguing that it has done a tremendous amount to reduce carbon output to 1990s levels and will stay engaged and continue to export relevant technology. This is not a message to anyone in the world that America should be apologetic of its CO2 position. Were actually making tremendous advances. Were just not going to agree to frameworks and agreements that put us at an economic disadvantage and hurt citizens across this country. He echoed Trumps attack on members of the agreement as having economic rather than environmental motives. The world applauded when we joined Paris and you know why? I think they applauded because they knew it was going to put this country at an economic disadvantage and the reason European leaders want us to stay in is because they know it will continue to shackle our economy though we are leading the world with respect to our CO2 reduction. The EPA administrator was asked repeatedly whether Trump believes climate change is a hoax as Trump previously claimed but refused to give a straight answer. Theres enough to deal with with respect to the Paris agreement and making an informed decision about this important issue he said. Thats where our focus has been the last several weeks. For his own part Pruitt acknowledged that global warming is occurring and that human activity contributes to it in some manner. But he added Measuring with precision from my perspective the degree of human contribution is very challenging. Sean Spicer the White House press secretary was similarly evasive on the topic. Asked if he can talk to Trump about the cause of climate change and report back at the next press briefing he replied If I can I will. Spicer gave short shrift to suggestions that Trumps decision will lift China as a global leader. I think part of the reason the president said it was a bad deal yesterday was because countries including China were not making substantial progress in reducing their carbon footprint. They werent doing enough and America was carrying the load so I think by negotiating a better deal hopefully we can get a better result for our country and the world. Nicaragua and Syria are the only countries not party to the Paris accord the former says it is not ambitious enough. Under a long exit process Americas withdrawal will not be become formal until November 2020.	True	True	False	True	True
Environmentalists in California are willing to let the state dictate how they cook in their own kitchens in an attempt to save the planet. Thirteen cities and one county in California have put in place zoning codes encouraging or requiring all electric new construction virtually banning builders from running natural gas lines into homes and apartments to fuel appliances including stoves and ovens. USA Today reported that people believe the move is necessary to fight climate change with an eye toward creating fewer legacy gas hookups as the nation shifts to carbon neutral energy sources. For natural gas companies its a threat to their existence. And for some cooks who love to prepare food with flame its an unthinkable loss. Natural gas is a fossil fuel mostly methane and produces 33 of U.S. carbon dioxide emissions from electricity generation according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Carbon dioxide is the primary greenhouse gas causing climate change. Theres no pathway to stabilizing the climate without phasing gas out of our homes and buildings Rachel Golden of the Sierra Clubs building electrification campaign said. This is a must do for the climate and a livable planet. But the page linked to on the U.S. Energy Information Administration EIA website is referring ironically to CO2 emissions from the U.S. electric power sector by source for 2018. The new codes call for replacing gas with electricity. The federal website reports on the benefits of using natural gas as an energy source Burning natural gas for energy results in fewer emissions of nearly all types of air pollutants and carbon dioxide CO2 than burning coal or petroleum products to produce an equal amount of energy. About 117 pounds of carbon dioxide are produced per million British thermal units MMBtu equivalent of natural gas compared with more than 200 pounds of CO2 per MMBtu of coal and more than 160 pounds per MMBtu of distillate fuel oil. The clean burning properties of natural gas have contributed to increased natural gas use for electricity generation and as a transportation fuel for fleet vehicles in the United States. Probably the biggest stumbling block for most pondering an all electric home is the prospect of not having a gas stove USA Today reported. Its the only thing that people ever ask about Bruce Nilles who directs the building electrification program of the Rocky Mountain Institute a Colorado based think tank that focuses on energy and resource efficiency said in the USA Today report. According to a 2017 kitchen study by the NPD Group 35 percent of U.S. households have a gas stove while 55 percent have electric. But the number of natural gas customers is also rising USA Today reported. The American Gas Association which represents more than 200 local energy companies says an average of one new customer is added every minute. Thats exactly the wrong direction Nilles said. The idea that denying access to natural gas in new homes is necessary to meet emissions reduction goals is false American Gas Association President and CEO Karen Harbert. In fact denying access to natural gas could make meeting emissions goals harder and more expensive. They also say its more expensive to run an all electric home USA Today reported. A study by AGA released last year suggested that all electric homes would pay 750 to 910 a year more for energy related costs as well as amortized appliance and upgrade costs. USA Today also pointed out that California is not the only place where people want more government regulation. New York Hawaii Colorado and Maine have carbon neutrality goals and as many as 140 U.S. cities have similar plans.	False	False	False	False	False
A geophysics professor from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology says that hes run the numbers on humanity facing a mass extinction event and the numbers are not good. According to Digital Trends a mass extinction eventis an event in which a large number of species become extinct at once as was the case with the death of thedinosaurs65 million years ago. Daniel Rothman told the publication that we are approaching a threshold of catastrophe in the carbon cycle similar to that of the five previous periods of mass extinction over the last 540 million years. The study identifies two thresholds for major carbon cycle changeRothmansaid. One is a critical rate of change corresponding to the rate at which CO2 is added to the oceanatmosphere system. The other a critical size or mass corresponds to the total carbon added to the oceans. Exceeding the critical rate at slow time scales much greater than about 10000 years or exceeding the critical size at fast time scales much less than about 10000 years is associated with mass extinction he explained. The MIT research paper predicts that the critical mass about 300 gigatons of carbon he concluded will likely be exceeded sometime this century. If so following the papers logic the marine carbon cycle would proceed to follow a trajectory which could excite a mass extinction over a period of about 10000 years. Rothman goes on to explain that the tipping point of unknown territory wont take that long he predicts it will come as soon as 2100 or sooner. Rothman says thatdecreasing carbon emissions would be the best way to try to avoid the catastrophe. Those who point to discrepancies in the global warming narrative have also noted that many of the solutions offered by climate change advocates do very little to actually stop carbon emissions and turn back the clock. They also cite previous doomsday scenarios offered by alarmist scientists that didnt come to fruition including acid rain and global cooling.	False	True	False	True	False
President Donald Trump has announced that the US is withdrawing from the 2015 Paris climate agreement. He said moves to negotiate a new fair deal that would not disadvantage US businesses and workers would begin. Mr Trump said during last year's presidential election campaign that he would take the step to help his country's oil and coal industries. Opponents say withdrawing from the accord is an abdication of US leadership on a key global challenge. The Paris agreement commits the US and 187 other countries to keeping rising global temperatures well below 2C above pre industrial levels and endeavour to limit them even more to 1.5C. Only Syria and Nicaragua did not sign up to the deal. Speaking in the White House Rose Garden Mr Trump characterised the Paris agreement as a deal that aimed to hobble disadvantage and impoverish the US. He claimed the agreement would cost the US 3tn in lost GDP and 6.5 million jobs while rival economies like China and India were treated more favourably. In order to fulfil my solemn duty to protect America and its citizens the United States will withdraw from the Paris climate accord... but begin negotiations to re enter either the Paris accord or a really entirely new transaction on terms that are fair to the United States he said. The speech contained several rhetorical flourishes reminiscent of his campaign speeches. We don't want other leaders and other countries laughing at us any more and they won't be he said. I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh not Paris. I promised I would exit or re negotiate any deal which fails to serve America's interests. Many trade deals will soon be under re negotiation. The BBC's Rajini Vaidyanathan in Washington says the move will be welcomed by many Trump supporters as for them this is less about science and more about sending a signal to so called global elites. Analysts say the US withdrawal from the Paris agreement will make it more difficult for the world to reach the goals that it set for itself in the Paris agreement. The US contributes about 15 of global emissions of carbon but it is also a significant source of finance and technology for developing countries in their efforts to fight rising temperatures. Mr Trump did not give a timescale for US withdrawal but White House sources had earlier suggested it could take up to four years. Former US President Barack Obama who agreed to the Paris deal immediately criticised the move accusing the Trump administration of rejecting the future. Republican congressional leaders and the US coal industry backed the move with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell supporting Mr Trump for dealing yet another significant blow to the Obama administration's assault on domestic energy production and jobs. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer called the decision one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st Century because of the huge damage to our economy our environment and our geopolitical standing. The leaders of France Germany and Italy issued a joint statement rejecting a renegotiation of the agreement. We deem the momentum generated in Paris in December 2015 irreversible and we firmly believe that the Paris agreement cannot be renegotiated since it is a vital instrument for our planet societies and economies it said. This was echoed by UK Prime Minister Theresa May who expressed her disappointment and told Mr Trump in a phone call that the deal protects the prosperity and security of future generations. Leaders of the Nordic nations Sweden Finland Denmark Norway and Iceland also condemned the move. A United Nations spokeswoman said it was a major disappointment for global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote global security. Small island nations whose existence is threatened by rising sea levels were critical of the move. The President of the Marshall Islands Hilda Heine said it was highly concerning for those of us that live on the frontline of climate change. Tech entrepreneur Elon Musk confirmed that he was leaving his role as an adviser to the Trump administration in protest. Am departing presidential councils. Climate change is real. Leaving Paris is not good for America or the world he tweeted. President Trump's statement is a very clear repudiation of the Paris agreement and international efforts to fund climate mitigation and adaptation in poorer countries. In many ways it is far worse than many had expected. He sees it as a clear job killer as an economy strangler and a desperately unfair stitch up by other countries wanting to take economic advantage of the US. He spoke of being open to re negotiating the deal or trying to build a new agreement but the idea of re negotiation is an unlikely scenario. The scale of his opposition seeing the deal as a massive redistribution of US wealth to other countries is a clear indication that he has fully bought into an economic nationalist and climate denier perspective. The question of unfairness cropped up again and again how the world's worst polluters China and India had no meaningful obligations placed on them by the deal. The overall tone and content of his speech clearly plays to his base but is also a clear disavowal of multilateralism especially on climate change and will definitely push other countries more closely together on this issue. Climate change or global warming refers to the damaging effect of gases or emissions released from industry and agriculture on the atmosphere. The Paris accord is meant to limit the global rise in temperature attributed to emissions.	True	False	False	True	False
At a Tuesday afternoon event rolling out the new policy Administrator Scott Pruitt invoked a biblical tale from the book of Joshua in which the pagans are instructed to choose this day whom you will serve either God or the gods of your fathers. As it relates to grants from this agency youre going to have to choose said Pruitt who described the new rule as a way of ensuring theres integrity in the process and that the scientists that are advising us are doing so without any kind of appearance of conflict. Pruitt described scientists who received as much as 77 million in grants from the agency while also serving on advisory boards as damaging the perception of independent rule making. Pruitt signed an order cementing the new rules into policy during the 28 minute event with Sen. Jim Inhofe R Okla. and Rep. Lamar Smith R Texas two of the most ardent climate change deniers in Congress at his side. Administrator Pruitt is purging expert scientists from his science boards and replacing them with mouthpieces for big polluters Sen. Tom Udall D N.M. said in a statement. Now instead of independent science guiding the way hired guns for industry will be steering EPA policy on central issues affecting clean air clean water and public health. Pruitt said nothing of industry funded science which has long been used to kneecap regulations. For many scientists working in a time of limited research budgets funding from the EPA or other government agencies is one of the few sources available other than industry money. Wholly unaddressed by the directive is any counterpart prohibition on scientists funded by industries with conflicts of interest from serving as EPA advisors Richard Denison a lead senior scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund wrote in a blog post. When it comes to advice the agency receives the core concern over the need to avoid conflicts of interest is this Is advice tainted because the entity employing and paying the advisor stands to gain or lose financially from the agency decision that is under advisement? The advisory boards which Congress created as a check on EPA policies and regulations include the EPA Science Advisory Board the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee CASAC and the Board of Scientific Counselors. Pruitt said he plans to announce new members of the boards next week after scientists began quitting the councils in protest earlier this year. While Pruitts new order rejects anyone who receives funding from the agency he has named industry allies to those same boards. As part of the announcement he tapped Michael Honeycutt the head of the Texas Commission on Environmental Qualitys toxicology division to serve as the head of the Science Advisory Board. Honeycutt once suggested the health risks linked to smog were overstated described ozone standards as alarmism that made no biological sense because most people are indoors for 90 percent of the time and blasted the EPA for relying on epidemiological studies that he considered not scientifically rigorous. In 2010 the Texas Observer called him a crony of then Gov. Rick Perry R and accused him of abusing science.Honeycutt relied heavily on research produced by Michael Dourson whose consultancy Toxicology Excellence for Risk Assessment was described in 2014 by InsideClimate News as the one stop science shop favored by the chemical and tobacco industries. Pruitt picked Dourson to lead the agencys chemical safety division last month. Pruitt also tapped Tony Cox who runs the private consultancy Cox Associates and produces research for major industry groups to lead the CASAC. He has done research on lung disease issues for the American Chemistry Council a trade group for the chemical industry and research on health effects associated with fine particulate matter and ozone for the American Petroleum Institute the oil industrys main lobbying group according to The Intercept. In 2015 he railed against the EPAs plans to tighten rules on ozone emissions. Pruitt appointed Paul Gilman as the head of the Board of Scientific Counselors.Gilman currently serves as the chief sustainability officer at the waste management and incinerator company Covanta.He has been a leading advocate for incinerating trash as a source of fuel for electricity. The trash incinerator industry provides only a tiny fraction of U.S. power but wields outsize influence in some cities and hasattempted to sabotage the U.S. Conference of Mayors effort to push for 100 percent renewable energy. Scott Pruitt doesnt want to listen to a word from anyone who isnt in the pocket of corporate polluters Sierra Club Executive Director Michael Brune said in a statement. For Pruitt anything that helps corporate polluters make money is good and science and facts are just roadblocks he wants to tear down.	True	False	False	True	False
AnOregon climate change bill that prompted 12 Republican lawmakers to flee the Statehouse in Salem last weekhas hit yet another snagSenate President Peter Courtney a Democrat announced Tuesday that the chamber did not have enough votes to pass the legislation. The cap and trade program intended to rein in industrial carbon emissions lost traction even with the state's Democratic senators according to Courtney sparking protesters who were initially demanding that Republicans return to the floor for a vote to begin chantingPeter Courtney's got to go. I've done as much as I can and I'll continue to tryCourtney said. RUNAWAY OREGON REPUBLICAN SAYS LAWMAKERS WON'T RETURN TO STATE UNTIL 'EXPENSIVE' CARBON TAX BILL SCRAPPED Gov. Kate Brown also a Democratauthorized the state police to round up the 12 Republicans who walked out of the Statehousein protest of the bill Thursday and bring them back to the Senate floor for a vote but to no avail. If passed the measure would make Oregon the second state in the nation after California to implement such a program. Republicans fled the Senate some even claiming to the leave the state refusing to sign off on a bill that wouldlimit emissions and establishpollution permitsor allowances for each ton of carbon an industry plans to emit. Speaking to Fox Friends from an undisclosed location Tuesday Republican state Sen.Tim Knopp criticizedthe bill and insistedthat he and his GOP colleagues would continue to stymie the state legislative process which requires20 members in the Senate in order to constitute as a quorum in order to proceed unless the carbon tax is scrapped and a bipartisan solution is reached. The bill would limit greenhouse gas emissions and auction pollution allowances for carbon that businesses want to emit with a lowering cap. The bill would reduce emissions to 45 percent below 1990 levels by 2035 and 80 percent by 2050. Critics say it would hurt the business community and exacerbate a divide between liberalurban areas and conservative rural parts of the state. All we're saying is it shouldn't cost thousands of manufacturing jobs raise the gas tax by 20 cents a gallon to start out with and raise natural gas prices for people who heat their home by almost 50 percent. We think there's a better way to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and so were holding out Knopp said. And the only way we could do that and stop this vote is by not providing a quorum for Democrats to roll over us.. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Protesters in support of the climate bill were disappointed Tuesday after Courtney's announcement despite assurances by Democratic lawmakers who insisted they would find a path forward for the bill. The walkout going on six days also leaves several other pieces of legislation including the state budget up in the air. Thosematters need to be resolved before the Legislative session ends at the end of the week.	False	True	True	True	False
Thecreationof the DMZ in 1953 marked a ceasefire in a war that divided Korea and resulted in the deaths of 2.5 million people including more than 36000 American soldiers. With the exception of Panmunjom a small village where peace negotiations were held and is still the site of some diplomatic engagements people are not allowed in the DMZ. Over 60 years have passed since the creation of the DMZ. In that time the inaccessible land between the barbed wire fences has turned into a land of pristine nature and life. It has become a refuge for venous wild flora and fauna with over 106 endangered species including the musk deer mountain goat otter golden eagle mute swan bean good common Korean battering Mongolian racerunner Korean necklace pod and the vesper iris. The DMZ is also a sanctuary for migratory birds visited by rare and wild bird species from all over the world in early October. Smithsonian Magazine reported that before the Korean War much of the wetlands area of the DMZ was cultivated farmland. The Seoul based newspaper the Dong A Ilbo reportedThursday that some experts think the DMZ should be designated a UNESCO biosphere preserved through international support. The World Heritage Committee ambassadors at UNESCO have praised DMZ as a wonderfully preserved natural heritage with potential to be registered as a natural reserve immediately Korean Ambassador to UNESCO Lee Byung hun told the Dong A Ilbo. South Korea applied for registry in 2012 but was thwarted by North Korean opposition according to the Dong A Ilbo. The DMZ is not only home to various wildlife but also to wetlands Kim Kwi gon professor emeritus at Seoul National University told the outlet. The region should be classified according to value such as key areas with high preservation value and buffer areas. Other areas could be designated for economic cooperation and travel. Dong A Ilbo reported that the National Institute of Ecology NIE affiliated by the Ministry of Environment announced on Wednesday that 37.8 percent of the 267 endangered species in Korea are living in the DMZ. The NIE regularly updates Koreans about the state of nature in the DMZ through videos it posts on its social media accounts. The data collected in the DMZ took place from 2014 to 2017. Previous data has been collected starting in 1974.	True	True	False	False	True
For conservatives seeking a major victory a great place to start would be to fix the mess of energy subsidies and regulations that have accumulated over the past eight years. In the years since Barack Obama took office there were 548 billion in energy and environment regulations finalized and the projected budget currently estimates at least 250 billion in federal energy subsidies. Attempts to eliminate these regulations and subsidies have been hampered by conservatives lack of an overarching vision for energy policy. While the Left is happy to use regulation to promote specific forms of energy they find ideologically appealing the response from conservatives all too often has been to weakly offer the all of the above catchphrase as a counterweight. Even worse conservatives sometimes have played the Lefts game in reverse using government to promote their own favored forms of energy rather than to promote competition and markets. For example while criticizing the tax credits for wind and solar power conservatives have embraced subsidies for carbon capture and sequestration and government regulation on nuclear insurance. Conservative principles uphold free markets competition and the rule of law yet too many conservatives are content to get their electricity from regulated monopolies or build infrastructure under outdated regulatory approval processes that take on average 70 months to complete. While conservatives can be bellicose about ending the war on coal they have placed far less emphasis on the benefits of policies to improve liquidity in natural gas markets. Responding to challenges in the energy sphere one issue at a time results in many conservatives missing the forest for the trees and not talking enough about what pro market energy policy looks like. Unwittingly in conservatives quest for equal treatment of different energy sources they have adopted policies that reinforce governments role in dictating energy outcomes. Even when Republicans showed budget discipline in 2015 by finally putting a sunset on several production and investment tax credits they did so without ending all subsidies for wind and solar. The result is entrenched government preference for already mature wind and solar technologies and stymied competition from emerging technologies such as fuel cells and geothermal that would benefit the most from the tax credits. Conservatives sorely need to define an energy narrative rooted in market principles. It should be one that centers on quality institutions and policies that leverage competition and consumer choice. Markets not mandates or subsidies will drive cost reductions innovations and deployment of clean technologies. An incrementalistic approach one that seeks to level the subsidy playing field or merely to pare back Obamas regulatory legacy will do little to foster the conditions needed for the sorts of innovation that both the Right and Left seek. Progressives who favor heavy regulation and energy subsidies had a field day during Obamas presidency. However regulators likely overstated the net benefits of regulations and the Clean Power Plan would have accomplished little at high cost while proving legally vulnerable and politically unstable. An analysis of President Obamas environmental legacy by the American Action Forum found the negative effect of regulations on economic growth led to forgone environmental benefits richer economies tend to value clean air more and emit less relative to production and led to regulations that were about half as effective as claimed on paper. Subsidies also have been inefficient. The National Academy of Sciences found that production and investment tax credits for wind and solar reduced carbon dioxide emissions at a cost of a whopping 250 per ton. A 2015 Congressional Budget Office report acknowledged that tax credits are less effective at achieving policy goals than alternative market driven policies. An AAF analysis of tax credits for renewables found the costs to taxpayers rose at a faster rate than the renewable energy output indicating declining performance of the subsidies. The Lefts focus on energy policy has been costly with poor outcomes. The Democratic party has an official policy to cut pollution from energy use through regulation and subsidies yet another AAF analysis revealed no pathway exists to achieve those stated objectives via regulation. Even assuming the targets were achievable at costs similar to past regulations the economic costs of the regulatory burden would exceed 7 trillion. Conservatives should seek opportunities to shed regulations and subsidies in favor of market oriented policies. This means a plan to phase out distortionary tax preferences completely. Expanding full cost expensing in the tax code would boost RD fairly and efficiently. Additional RD benefits would come from shifting Department of Energy priorities from applied research toward basic research. Opportunities to cut red tape abound from hydroelectric and advanced nuclear licensing to modernizing the Clean Air Act. Removing regulatory barriers to entry for unconventional technologies such as energy storage in wholesale electricity markets would help level the playing field. Rethinking counterproductive energy efficiency regulations which reduce incentives for innovation and risk taking with new technologies should also be a part of the equation. Conservatives should also protect and enhance competitive energy markets. A report from the R Street Institute found that competitive electricity markets cut costs while boosting innovation and environmental quality. Strengthening these markets while minimizing political interventions like power plant bailouts is crucial to the performance of the electricity industry. Improving rules that affect price formation in electricity markets will also help stimulate efficient investments. Conservatives have an opportunity to retake the energy narrative with a platform that favors competition and choice. It would be a return to conservative basics where industries and technologies excel on their merits not political popularity. In so doing conservatives will advance the American economy and their political interests well into the future. Philip Rossetti is a data analyst at the American Action Forum Devin Hartman is electricity policy manager and senior fellow with the R Street Institute.	False	True	True	True	False
In January Californias Jerry Brown became the first governor in the states history to declare a state of emergency for a drought and a flood simultaneously. On Friday Brown lifted the drought emergency in all but four counties Fresno Kings Tulare and Tuolumne counties. But rather than lift the burdensome water regulations implemented to cope with the drought he announced that many of those regulations would remain intact even though the flood emergency remains. Browns latest plan Making Water Conservation a California Way of Life allows the state to oversee conservation goals it sets in urban water management agencies as well as to permanently prohibit activities it deems wasteful of the water supply. It also creates more stringent standards for establishing these water use goals. Brown has indicated that he hopes to expand the states water supply with new sources of water but his focus on making conservation a way of life in a time when Californias streets are flooding suggests otherwise. Certainly Californians and everyone else ought to find ways to responsibly use natural resources such as water. Mandating conservation however is drastically different from incentivizing it. Even though there is no longer a drought state of emergency in their state Californians will be fined if they wash their automobiles with hoses not equipped with a shut off nozzle water lawns in a way that results in water run off or hose off sidewalks. The plan also gives urban government agencies until 2025 to comply with their conservation targets limiting the water usage of Californians. But water conservation can only go so far. California ought to begin expanding its water supply rather than incessantly regulate how citizens use water especially now that the governor doesnt retain the broad powers spelled out under the drought state of emergency Browns flood state of emergency doesnt give him the same power to regulate water use. John Woodling of the Sacramento Regional Water Authority told the Sacramento Bee that Browns assertion of state power in this area will give it permanent unchecked control over local water management decisions. And as Browns plan begins to drive water consumption down Woodling said it could hurt the economy. Governor Brown has pushed two contradictory agendas for months. Now even he has concluded that California is no longer in a drought. Its time for these conservation regulations to be lifted and for the state to do what it should have done a long time ago look to expand its water supply.	True	True	False	False	True
Buildings disappear in the smog in Ulaanbaatar where residents have resorted to sipping 'lung' tea and 'oxygen cocktails' in a desperate bid to protect themselves from pollution Fed up with the smog in Mongolia's capital residents have resorted to sipping lung tea and oxygen cocktails in a desperate bid to protect themselves from pollution despite health officials saying there is no evidence they work. Ulaanbaatar topped New Delhi and Beijing as the world's most polluted capital in 2016 UNICEF said in a report warning of a health crisis that has put every child and pregnancy at risk. With residents of so called ger slum districts using coal stoves to cook and heat their homes in the world's coldest capital where temperatures can dip as low as 40 Celsius 40 Fahrenheit pollution has skyrocketed. While most of the pollution comes from stoves in the gers road transport and power plants add to the toxic mix. On January 30 air pollution was 133 times higher than the safe limit set by the World Health Organization WHO. UNICEF reported that cases of respiratory infections have nearly tripled and pneumonia is now the second leading cause of death for children under five. Worried parents have held protests to press the government to take action. But some businesses are cashing in even though a WHO official says there is no evidence that such anti smog products work. Batbayariin Munguntuul sitting with her children while an air purifier runs at her home in Ulaanbaatar Advertisements in Mongolia boast that drinking just one oxygen cocktail is equal to a three hour walk in a lush forest. At the produce section of the State Department Store blue cans of oxygen called Life Is Air are on sale for 2 and promise to turn a glass of juice into a foamy sweet oxygen cocktail after spraying some into a glass through a special straw. Other stores and pharmacies have oxygen cocktail machines that resemble coffee makers and can turn a juice into a frothy drink for 1. Pregnant women are among the most avid customers of the Russian made product with some saying they are following their doctor's orders. Batbayar Munguntuul a 34 year old accountant and mother of three drank oxygen cocktails when she was pregnant but she ended up spending much more money on medicine. Every winter we constantly buy medicine she told AFP. It has reached a point that it is like just any other grocery product that you have to buy regularly. Like many other Mongolians she has chosen to buy an air purifier to make sure her family breathes clean air at home. Her machine which filters out toxic fumes cost her 300. The average level of PM2.5 particles which penetrate deep into the lungs was 75 micrograms per cubic metre last year or three times the exposure recommended by the WHO for a 24 hour period. Air pollution has been linked to asthma bronchitis and other long term respiratory diseases. Some Mongolians drinking special teas named Enkhjin Ikh Taiga and Dr. Baatar that claim to clean lungs. Dr. Baatar's CEO Baatar Chantsaldulam said sales surge by 20 to 30 percent during winter when pollution tends to reach its peak. First it takes all the toxins out of the blood then it turns the toxins in the lung into mucus and all the plants in tea helps boost the human immune system he told AFP. But Maria Neira the head of the WHO's public health department said the real solution to protect the lungs and the cardiovascular system was to reduce air pollution and avoid exposure to it. The business community will offer plenty of those solutions Neira said referring to the oxygen cocktails and lung teas. We don't have any scientific evidence whether they provide any benefit she said. For the past 10 years people have known that air pollution has reached dangerous levels Parents Against Smog coordinator Tumur Mandakhjargal told AFP. However policymakers only address the issue by talking about passing out clean stoves and clean coal Mandakhjargal said. The NGO says the government should give some 200000 ger residents access to loans so that they install heating insulation and replace their stoves with cleaner heaters. It also complains that a ger relocation plan has been too slow. The government spent 120 million between 2008 2016 to combat pollution with half of the funds coming out of its foreign aid revenue. Part of the money has gone to distributing low emission stoves to residents of ger districts. Last year the parliament approved a tax exemption for companies that sell air purifiers while Prime Minister Ukhnaa Khurelsukh issued an order to distribute 1.6 million worth of the appliances to all schools. Non profit organisations are giving away air purifiers and anti smog masks to schools kindergartens and hospitals. The non profit group Smog and Kids donated a South Korean made air ventilation system to a kindergarten in one of the capital's most polluted areas and the difference in air quality inside and outside the classrooms is palpable. Such systems can cost up to 2500 plus 500 for installation. But Smog and Kids representative Tumendalai Davaadalai said air purifiers were not the answer to the problem. Mobile air purifiers don't give oxygen they're not plants. The decision by Khurelsukh's cabinet to distribute air purifiers is a very bad decision Davaadalai said. They are just funding businesses without any positive results.	True	False	False	False	False
NASA robotic missions to Mars have revealed a world with an amazingly complex history including periods in which it was much warmer with oceans volcanoes and was habitable for many types of simple Earth life. Even now Mars still has abundant subsurface water and organic compounds. NASA is planning a human mission to Mars for the early to mid 2030s and if our history of space exploration is any guide Mars will have many interesting surprises in store for the first humans to set foot there. A human mission to Mars will be complex expensive and very dangerous.Sending humans to Mars and returning them safely to the Earth will be among the most difficult projects ever undertaken. But what should happen after that first step? The most obvious first task in developing an extended presence on Mars is reconnaissance probably carried out with extensive use of miniature drones. It will be essential that we map and evaluate all possible resources that could be useful. These resources will include water whether ice in the top few meters below the surface or liquid water that would exist deeper. Naturally occurring materials such as metals can be used in construction of habitats tools fuel etc. NASAs Mars Curiosity scientists recently announced the discovery of complex organics in the soil. These organic compounds would be essential for hydroponics as Mark Whatley did in wonderful and reasonable accurate movie The Martian. As a side product of growing green planets is that photosynthesis will provide a source of oxygen for breathing. The early Mars colonists will be intently focused upon building safe resilient and sustainable habitats. Whenever humans leave the Earth they must take along a bubble of Earths environment which includes breathable air. Mars has an atmosphere but it is only about 1 percent of the air pressure that exists at sea level on Earth. Furthermore the atmosphere on Mars is almost entirely carbon dioxide CO2. There is only a very tiny amount of oxygen the most important gas that humans need. Fortunately it is relatively straightforward to make oxygen from water and we now know that Mars has abundant water present as a permafrost layer underneath much of the surface. There are several dangers that would face the colonists. These include micrometeorites which burn up in Earths upper atmosphere and ultraviolet radiation from the sun that is blocked by our stratospheric ozone layer on Earth. Mars does not have such an ozone layer. So habitats must be shielded and perhaps built in naturally occurring caves and lava tubes. Imagine an opportunity of building an entirely new world from scratch! As long as the colony is safe and resilient and as long as the resources are available almost anything could be possible. Mars could provide a venue for experimenting with new types of government education societal structures or even recreation. Ultimately once colonies are stable Mars itself could be used as a base for further exploration of the outer solar system. As the early colonists develop a more robust presence they will then be able to devote more effort to establishing further goals. These might include the development of profitable industries for trade with Earth or experimenting with new technologies that might have applications for life on Earth. They could search for life underneath the surface of Martian as has been suggested by the methane plumes that are emitted seasonally from the underground or in the nearby asteroid belt or the moons of Jupiter. Imagine the new types of recreation that might be possible on Mars. Imagine skiing down the slopes of Olumpus Mons the largest extinct volcano in the solar system where the ski slopes are hundreds of miles long. Imagine hang gliding from cliffs six miles high! On Mars the intrepid explorer might delve into caves ancient lava tubes that are hundreds of meters across. Perhaps the most exciting recreation will be exploring that new world. Who knows what we will find there! Michael Summers is a professor of planetary science and astronomy at George Mason University. The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	True	False	False	False	False
A little over a year agoI wrote that President Trump saved the planetwhen he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate agreement. The decision I argued enabled the free market to do exactly what liberals want Empower individuals to better the environment without government intervention. As individuals we are taking steps to protect the environment by choice not by mandate and going green is paying off. According to the Energy Information Administrations EIA latest monthly energy report U.S. carbon dioxide emissions are at their lowest point since 1992. Per capita carbon emissions are the lowest theyve been since 1950. Were also outpacing our allies many of whom criticized President Trumps decision to put America first. In the last year alone U.S. carbon emissions fell more than 0.5 percent while European emissionsrose 1.5 percent. Its the height of irony given Europes virtue signaling last year. After President Trump shredded his predecessors unconstitutional treaty the globalist leaders of France Germany and Italyclaimedit cannot be renegotiated. They referred to the irreversible agreement as a vital instrument for our planet societies and economies. The globalist decree would have left us spending trillions of dollars a year to mitigate a rise in global temperatures without really mitigating it at all. The Paris climate agreement was expected to drop temperatures byone fifth of a degreeover the next century. Apparently it wasnt such a vital instrument after all. Europe is failing to pull its weight as Americanscut pollution to historic lows. The decline in U.S. carbon emissions is a testament to the free markets enduring power. There is nothing more vital for environmental protection than our freedom to protect the environment as individuals without Big Government and its endless red tape. Anti Trump liberals and conservatives alike are investing in renewable energy choosing hybrid vehicles over gas guzzlers and encouraging their neighbors to do the same. Were cutting down on waste like never before. Were reusing more than ever. And were recycling recycling recycling. This year the environmental industry is expected togrow five percent to 407 billion without the Paris agreement. By 2020 the waste management segment alone is projected to surpass 70 billion in economic activity with an average annual growth rate of 3.6 percent. Corporate America is doing its part. Tesla is working on theworlds largest battery farmin the California desert reaffirming its commitment to electric vehicles and an energy grid powered by renewable options. The new power plant will be capable of producing up to 1.1 GWh of electricity enough energy for millions of homes. Tesla isnt alone. Last year 19 companiesannounced deals with energy providersto build 2.78 gigawatts worth of solar and wind generating capacity. At least 22 companies in the Fortune 500 have committed to buying enough renewable energy to match 100 percent of their electricity use moving forward. Earlier this year oil and gas companies such as ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shellmet with Pope Francisto discuss climate change and put concrete solutions on the table. Theyrebacking up their words ExxonMobil is developing renewable oils from genetically engineered algae while Royal Dutch Shell vows to become a leading supplier of renewable electricity. Going green is creating new jobs and new industries to boot. As always free market forces outperform the unfunded mandates and taxpayer funded job killing enforcement bureaucracies of Big Government. Even as the Left demands more environmental regulations President Trump is wise to side with the free market. When individuals are free to choose when and how to adjust their daily lives to protect the environment without government compulsion requiring it the environment reaps the benefits. When private enterprise is free to experiment and innovate we see a stronger economy and a real commitment to environmental action. President Trump understands environmental protection is impossible without individual action and private innovation. Its because of free enterprise the environmental industry is as large as it is todayand growing. By protecting individual freedom from government regulation President Trump is saving our jobs and the environment to boot. DanBackeris a veteran campaign counsel who has worked for more than 100 candidates PACs and political organizations including Great America PAC and the Committee to Defend the President. He is founding attorney of political.law a campaign finance and political law firm. The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	False	False	False	True	True
President Donald Trump is making good on his campaign promise to pull the US out of the Paris climate agreement a move thats been called a moral disgrace and thats expected to hinder much needed progress in the fight against global warming. A failure to tackle climate change will mean more extreme weather dirtier air and water and more food shortages. Itll also mean more disease. Researchers have long been arguing that the effects of climate change could undermine the last 50 years of gains in global health increasing the spread of infections like yellow fever and chronic diseases like asthma and heart disease. Now is not the time to be scaling back efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The December 2015 agreement which has been signed by nearly 200 countries aimed to cut greenhouse gas emissions and keep global warming below 2 degrees Celsius. The US had committed to cutting its emissions by up to 28 percent from 2005 levels by 2025. These goals were widely viewed as a win for public health. Americas retreat now could be a major setback. There are a number of ways climate change puts us at a greater risk for disease. Chief among them a warmer planet is one thats more hospitable to disease. Disease carrying vectors like mosquitoes thrive in warm and moist environments. Zika dengue and chikungunya are all spread by the Aedes type mosquito. And one of the reasons researchers think Aedes may be reaching new places and more people lately is climate change. Its not just mosquitoes though Bird flu cholera Lyme disease salmonella researchers believe all are being made worse by climate change. At a February meeting on climate change and health former Vice President Al Gore focused his talk on this problem. Climate change is tilting the balance disrupting natural ecosystems and giving more of an advantage to microbes he said. Changing climate conditions change the areas in which these diseases can take root and become endemic. Read Maryn McKennas New York Times story for more on this. In addition deforestation and urbanization are moving humans into areas where they havent lived before and putting them into closer contact with animals that carry disease causing microbes like bats during West Africas 2014 Ebola outbreak. Brian Deese a senior adviser to President Barack Obama overseeing climate change and energy policy and former Ebola czar Ron Klain explained why in a piece at the Washington Post Climate change destroys habitats and stresses animal populations such as the bats of West Africa forcing them to hunt for food nearer to humans. Humans likewise pressed by climate impacts encroach more closely on animal habitats. While we cannot know that climate change was the cause of the specific interaction between bats and humans that is believed to have launched the Ebola outbreak in Guinea we will see more of these interactions in the future and more epidemics as a result. Ebola demonstrates that even localized dislocation of people and animals can create global risk. Climate change is a threat multiplier for much broader dislocation accelerating the complex factors that drive people from their homes. Greenhouse gases are not only harmful to the environment they also increase the risk of everything from asthma to heart disease. According to the Global Burden of Disease project more than 5 million people die worldwide each year because of air pollution and emissions from coal fired plants are a major risk factor here. Its one reason why health experts have been pushing policymakers to rapidly phase out of coal. For miners the immediate health risks include black lung disease and scarring of the lung tissue. But the pollutants emitted when coal is processed including sulfur dioxide particulate matter nitrogen oxides and mercury have much more far reaching effects on many more people. In one large study involving 450000 Americans followed between 1982 and 2004 researchers found that increased exposure to the particles in fossil fuel emissions increased the risk of death from heart disease and particles from coal burning were five times more damaging than other similar particles. Reducing emissions from coal fired power plants makes it easier to breathe. Over the past 30 years the percentage of Americans with asthma has more than doubled and climate change has been a significant driver of that trend. Air pollution triggers asthma attacks contributing to lung abnormalities particularly in the developing pulmonary systems of children. The Paris agreement was no panacea but it nudged the world in the right direction. Now the US moves backward. Its not just the future of the environment thats at stake here. Our health hangs in the balance too.	True	False	False	True	False
During an interview with CBC the new US ambassador to Canada Kelly Craft claimed she believes both sides of climate science. Asked Do you believe in climate change? Craft responded I believe there are scientists on both sides that are accurate. Do you believe there is science that proves that man is not causing climate change? the interviewer followed up. Well I think that both sides have you know their own results from their studies and I appreciate and respect both sides of the science Craft said. Though several members of the Trump administration including President Trump himself continue to cast doubt on humans role in the changing climate without providing any evidence its simply not a matter on which scientists disagree at all. The latest National Climate Assessment written by more than 300 scientists at 13 US federal agencies including the Department of Defense and NASA for instance opens with the statement Earths climate is now changing faster than at any point in the history of modern civilization primarily as a result of human activities. The report goes on to detail the toll climate change has already taken on health quality of life and the economy of the US and how those impacts will mount if emissions are not dramatically reduced in the coming years. With continued growth in emissions at historic rates annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century more than the current gross domestic product GDP of many U.S. states according to the assessment. The Trump administration released the report ahead of schedule on the Friday after Thanksgiving a move many interpreted as an attempt to bury the findings. The facts of climate science and the urgency of the climate threat to the US are a nuisance to an administration that has consistently prioritized the demands of the fossil fuel industry to roll back federal policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. And Trump has appointed a number of officials like Craft whose allegiance to industry is clear. In 2016 Craft reportedly donated 265400 toward Trumps election and 17000 to the Republican National Committee. Crafts husband Joseph Craft is a billionaire coal magnate. A Global News report from 2017 provides some details about him While the Crafts have a personal financial stake in pushing climate denialism other prominent Republicans have tried to tamp down on the conclusions of the Climate Assessment by citing concerns about the impact curbing greenhouse gas emissions would have on industry and jobs. But as Voxs David Roberts has detailed there is no consistent evidence that environmental regulations cause long term changes in overall employment.	True	True	False	True	True
Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs newly released Green New Deal resolution has gotten a lot of attention for its 100 percent renewable energy goal but the bill also vaguely references another source of emissions. The resolution calls for aWorld War II style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations. If thats the case that means any subsequent Green New Deal legislation would have to deal with a major source of methane emissions cow flatulence and burps. We set a goal to get to net zero rather than zero emissions in 10 years because we arent sure that well be able to fully get rid of farting cows and airplanes that fast reads the initial version of the resolutions fact sheet. However Ocasio Cortez staffers have since removed farting from fact sheet. Methane makes up 10 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for global warming. Enteric fermentation the digestive process in cows and other ruminant animals is the largest source of U.S. methane emissions according to Environmental Protection Agency EPA data. EPA says cattle account for the majority of methane emissions in the United States for this source category referring to emissions from enteric fermentation.Most methane from cows comes from their burps not farts.RELATED Alexandria Ocasio Cortez Green New Deal Is About Social Justice Being a non binding resolution the Green New Deal doesnt offer any specifics on how livestock emissions would be phased down or eliminated. The question then becomes How do you eliminate emissions from cows sheep and other animals? Certainly environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of peoples diets in the name of the climate but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health. Some scientists have looked into reducing flatulence from ruminant animals. The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others. The Obama administration released a plan to clamp down on methane emissions in 2014 which included programs to cut emissions from dairy operations. Republican lawmakers worried the Obama era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers. Methane is a more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide but makes up a much smaller slice of Americas emissions profile. Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	False	True	True	False
A Tesla Model 3 is touted as a zero emissions car by government regulators but it actually results in more carbon dioxide than a comparable diesel powered car according to a recent study. When the CO2 emissions from battery production is included electric cars like Teslas are in the best case slightly higher than those of a diesel engine and are otherwise much higher reads a release from the German think tank IFO. Its better read as a warning that new technologies arent a climate change panacea. Recall the false promises about corn and cellulosic ethanol The Wall Street Journal editorial board wrote of the study. RELATED 2020 Democrats Back Plan Thats Already Raising Electricity Prices Driving a Tesla Model 3 in Germany for example is responsible for 156 to 181 grams of CO2 per kilometer compared to just 141 grams per kilometer for a diesel powered Mercedes C220d that includes emissions from producing diesel fuel. IFO looked at electric car production in Germany which is heavily reliant on coal power. Electric car emissions in other countries depend on their energy mix but Germany is the worlds third largest electric car maker. China and the U.S. are the first and second largest electric car producers respectively. China gets 65 percent of its electricity from coal power and the U.S. relies on coal for 27 percent of its electric power. China is also the top battery producing country using coal power to produce batteries for electric vehicles that are then subsidized for being zero emissions. California for example requires automakers to cut greenhouse gas emissions in cars by producing lower emissions vehicles or buying credits from companies like Tesla that make electric vehicles. At the federal level the U.S. gives tax breaks of up to 7500 per electric vehicle. Federal subsidies for Teslas are set to be phased out since the company founded by Elon Musk hit the 200000 vehicle production cap. However Congress is debating whether or not to extend electric car subsidies. Its not just battery production but charging vehicles that emit lots of CO2. Germany gets 35 percent of its electricity from coal fired power plants so charging a Tesla in say Bavaria results in 83 grams of CO2 per kilometer driven. Over the long term hydrogen methane technology offers a further advantage it allows surplus wind and solar power generated during peaks to be stored and these surpluses will see a sharp increase as the share of this renewable energy grows study co author Christoph Buchal professor of physics at the University of Cologne said in a statement. IFO isnt the first research group to conclude electric cars might not reduce carbon dioxide emissions as promised. A study released in 2018 also found driving electric cars might come with higher emissions than diesel vehicles largely because of lithium ion battery production. Likewise a Manhattan Institute study from 2018 also found putting more electric cars on the road would likely increase emissions compared to internal combustion engine vehicles. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	True	False	True	True
An aerial view ofthe Antarctic Peninsulas Larsen C ice shelf. According to NASA IceBridge scientists measured the Larsen C fracture to be about 70 miles long more than 300 feet wide and about a third of a mile deep. Photo John SonntagNASA via AP In the six days before President Trump announced his decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change an enormous crack in an Antarctic ice shelf grew 11 miles according to a report by British Antarctic research group Project MIDAS. The crack which is located in Larson Shelf C leaves only eight miles of ice connecting what could be one of the worlds largest recorded icebergs to Antarctica. When it eventually breaks free from the continent the resulting iceberg will measure 31000 square miles represent 10 percent of the ice shelfs original mass and be larger than the state of Rhode Island. The growth spurt between May 25 and May 31 was the largest they have observed since January Project MIDAS says and the inevitable splintering of Ice Shelf C will drastically alter the landscape of the continent and will make the ice that remains less stable. The group states that although this specific crack was not likely caused by climate change the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves contributes to rising sea levels that threaten coastal cities. When ice shelves disappear ice can flow faster from the land to the ocean and contribute more quickly to sea level rise Adrian Luckman and Martin OLeary of Project MIDAS wrote in February. Rising sea levels endanger heavily populated cities such as New York San Francisco New Orleans and Miami and are predicted to cause 13.1 million Americans to relocate from coastal areas by 2100. Concern about rising sea levels was one of many factors that inspired the Paris Agreements goal of limiting the rise of global temperatures. Project MIDAS expects the ice shelf to mimic the break up of Larson Ice Shelf B which shattered over a period of two weeks in 2002. The calving event will probably be slow and graceful the scientists of Project MIDAS wrote. The ice is already floating so when the fracture breaks all the way through it will simply start to drift away. The group is unsure exactly when the rapidly growing crack will cause Ice Shelf C to break free from Antarctica but believes that the rift has now reached a region of soft ice and that there is very little holding the ice shelf together. We are watching with bated breath the teamwrote.	False	False	False	True	True
The actions of mankind could lead to the extinction of half of African birds and mammals by the end of 2100 a UN backed study has said. The report conducted by 550 experts from around the world said reduced biodiversity could affect people's quality of life. It also found 42 of land based animal and plant species in Europe and Central Asia have declined in the last decade. The findings come after the death of the last male northern white rhino. Despite the bleak findings the study also pointed to some successes in reversing declines in wildlife. The study by the Intergovernmental Science Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services IPBES showed forest cover in China and other parts of north east Asia had risen by more than 20 between 1990 and 2015. It also found that animals such as the amur leopard which were once on the verge of the extinction had grown in population. Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have. Fortunately the evidence also shows that we know how to protect and partially restore our vital natural assets. Academic volunteers looked through some 10000 scientific publications for what is said to be the most extensive biodiversity survey since 2005. Among the list of the biggest threats to food and water security were pollution climate change and deforestation. Scientists say governments businesses and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming fishing forestry mining or infrastructure development.	True	True	False	False	False
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke spent the last week targeting environmental groups that have for years opposed activities like logging and thinning to reduce the risks of catastrophic wildfires on federal lands. The former Montana congressman blamed litigation from radical environmentalists who would rather see forests and communities burn than see a logger in the woods in a USA Todayop edpublished Wednesday. Zinke also called out extreme environmentalists in aninterviewwith KCRA that aired Sunday. The day before that Zinke lambasted environmental terrorists groups that have not allowed public access that refuse to allow harvest of timber in aninterviewwith Breitbart Radio. Deadly wildfires have consumed over 1 million acres in West Coast states damaging structures and forcing thousands to flee their homes. The recent death of a firefighter battling the nearly 350000 acre Mendocino Complex Fire brings thedeath tollto six for this season. So whats the point of attacking environmentalists? Zinke is taking the conversation away from global warming and bringing it back to land management including the litigation and environmental laws that keep officials from actively managing the forests. Instead activists focus on global warming arguing human caused warming has expanded wildfire season due to longer hotter drier conditions in the western states. At the same time these groups often oppose efforts to clear forests of debris and dead wood that fuel fires when hot dry weather sets in every year. Ive heard the climate change argument back and forth Zinke told the Sacramento based KCRA. This has nothing to do with climate change. This has to do with active forest management.RELATED Californias Biggest Utility Continues To Blame Global Warming For Wildfires Started By Its Own Power Lines Wildfire experts tend to see land management and urban growth as prime drivers of wildfires. Many experts also see global warming as a factor in the rise of fires but admit the relationship is more complicated than the media lets on. The story cant be a simply that warming is increasing the numbers of wildfires in California because the number of fires is declining. And area burned has not been increasing either University of Washington climate scientist Cliff Masswrotein a recent blog post. In fact the recent National Climate Assessmentspecial reportgave low to medium confidence for a detectable human climate change contribution in the western United States based on existing studies. Most wildfires are caused by humans mostly unintentionally. Sparks from vehicles or equipment power lines arson and cigarettes are some of the ways humans cause massive blazes. Lightning is the cause of wildfires humans dont spark. In California for example humanscaused95 percent of all wildfires with power lines and utility equipment becoming a growing problem. Research also shows that wildfire season has primarily grown from population growth in fire prone areas increasing the chances of a fire causing spark. Environmentalists have obviously not taken kindly to Zinkes remarks but are particularly incensed by his dismissal of global warming as a driver of catastrophic wildfires. Randi Spivak public lands program director at the Center for Biological Diversity said the administration is missing the main issue by being dismissive of climate changes effect on the fires. Climate change creates drought high wind conditions low humidity. Fire creates its own weather Randi Spivak the public lands director at the Center for Biological DiversitytoldThe Hill. You can thin all you want till the cows come home but fire will overtake that Spivak said adding what is misleading is people like Zinke and other people who refuse to talk about climate change and how we need to tackle that. Name calling and finger pointing wont change the truth that climate change is exacerbating wildfiresechoedthe Sierra Clubs Athan Manuel. The long term safety of our communities relies on reducing carbon pollution. Zinke actually did say fire season had gotten longer and temperatures had warmed but added that doesnt relieve you of the responsibility to remove the dead and dying timber and manage our forests so you dont have these catastrophic burns. But Zinke is correct that environmental litigation has kept federal agencies including the Interior Department and U.S. Forest Service from thinning clearing debris and conducting prescribed burns to keep forest growth in check. A 2014studypublished in the Journal of Forestry found vegetative management or logging projects continued to be the dominant type of management activity involved in Forest Service land management litigation representing nearly three times more cases than any other type of management activity. The Forest Service was found more likely to lose cases where plaintiffs advocated for less resource use particularly in the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals where the agency won less than half its cases. In fact the 9th Circuit on Mondayoverturneda Forest Service plan for part of Idahos Payette National Forest. The judge sided with environmental groups and ruled renders the Project inconsistent with the desired vegetative conditions set forth in the Payette Forest Plan from 2003. The servicesplanthat got overturned included getting fire conditions toward historical range of variability to reduce wildland fire risk improve wildlife habitat through mechanical thinning harvest and prescribed burning.	True	True	False	False	True
As India's north continues to struggle with extreme pollution levels the story has put a fresh spotlight on air quality in cities across Asia. Beijing has long been notorious for its smog but statistics show that India Pakistan and Bangladesh have worse air by far. So why is South Asia so much more polluted? Of the world's most polluted 30 cities 22 are in India according to research by IQ AirVisual a Swiss based group that gathers air quality data globally and Greenpeace. The remaining eight cities are all in Pakistan Bangladesh and China but the list doesn't include Beijing which comes in at number 122. Just looking at global capitals it's also Asian cities that top the ranking. Looking at overall countries it's Bangladesh that has the worst air followed by Pakistan and then India. All these rankings are based on average air quality per year. As these countries have very different densities of measuring stations and transparency of data the statistics have to be read with a degree of caution. But they certainly indicate an overall trend. The fight against air pollution in three global cities Why is India worse off than China? Pollution in urban areas is usually a mix of different factors mostly traffic fossil fuel burning power plants and heavy industries. What differentiates China from India is that in the latter there is still a lot of burning of agricultural stubble when farmers want to clear their fields. The burning usually takes place in autumn. In this episode the big problem really seems to have been the agricultural burning assistant professor Thomas Smith of the London School of Economics told the BBC. That's one thing that China has tackled. All agricultural burning has been banned full stop. A global overview for fires and thermal abnormalities is made available by Nasa and allows users to track developments over past days and weeks. The area north west of Delhi shows a highly unusual concentration of fires Prof Smith points out. And you can't underestimate how important agricultural burning is even though people often think only of cars and heavy industry as the causes. In the wake of the pollution spike India's Supreme Court ordered a stop to stubble burning in the states around Delhi. But the city's situation is made worse by the colder winter air which is more stagnant trapping the pollutants in place. Prof Smith also points out that while India is largely reactive Beijing tends to be more proactive and preventative to try to stop the problems from happening in the first place. What does pollution feel like? Pollution levels are categorised by measuring the levels of dangerous particles in the air. The result is then classified on a scale from good to hazardous. The effect of pollution is different for every person explains Dr Christine Cowie of the University of New South Wales. Some people complain about irritation to the eyes to the throat exacerbations of wheeze and asthma symptoms. Coughing is certainly also a very common symptom even in non asthmatic people. And of course it's the elderly who suffer the very young and people with pre existing respiratory illnesses like or heart problems. She explains that even a short exposure to the unhealthy or worse pollution levels can trigger an asthma attack or increase the risk of a stroke. The longer the exposure the greater the risks. And the ways to protect oneself are limited. There's the advice to stay indoors to reduce physical exercise and to wear a mask but in many poorer parts of the world none of these options really work for regular people. It is toxic air says David Taylor professor of tropical environmental change at the National University of Singapore. It must be very uncomfortable especially if you're having to work outside and if you're having to do jobs that require quite a lot of energy. You feel like it's hard to breathe agrees Prof Smith. It's like doing hardcore exercise when you just take a walk outside. And depending on the kind of pollution you can of course also smell it in the air. How does it compare to Europe or the US? Today pollution levels in Europe Australia and the US are significantly lower than the extreme readings that India has experienced in the past few days. But it's not always been like that. London for instance was notorious for its pollution during much of the 19th and early 20th centuries. As late as 1952 the so called Great Smog covered London with a thick toxic layer of pollution bringing the city almost to a standstill for days not unlike the situation in Delhi now. It's thought to have resulted in thousands of deaths. While London experienced a different mix of pollutants it probably wasn't far off what's currently happening in Delhi says Mr Taylor. Back then power stations along the Thames were major polluters of the British capital. In fact much of what we know today about the health impact of air pollution dates back to the experiences of the London smog during those years.	False	True	False	True	False
A fifth generation coal miner from Virginia has spoken out against President Donald Trump's rhetoric surrounding the coal mining industry saying the President is making false promises that are only going to line the pockets of coal executives. In a New York Times op ed video published Tuesday Nick Mullins a ninth generation Appalachian from Virginia said that if Trump wants to help the Appalachian mining communities that support him lowering emission standards is not the way to do it. At this year's State of the Union address Trump talked about ending the war on beautiful clean coal. Mullins says coal cannot be clean and that miners know firsthand. We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue he said. They're a matter of life or death. On Tuesday the newly proposed Affordable Clean Energy Rule was announced which would allow states to set their own emission standards for coal fueled power plants. Throughout his campaign and presidency Trump has lauded his plan to replace the Obama administration's climate change policies with rules and regulations that would be more friendly toward the coal industry. The Obama administration's Clean Power Plan made greenhouse gas emissions federally regulated for the first time.	True	False	False	True	True
Investigators are looking into the Hanford nuclear facility in Washington state after contractors were filmed dumping radiation affected water and later tried to bury the evidence at the site of one of the largest nuclear cleanup efforts in the world. Several videos obtained by Seattles KING TV show workers at the Hanford facilitys Plutonium Finishing Plant PFP dumping liquids from large metal containers that are labeled Caution radioactive materials. In nearly 25 years of working here Ive never seen anything like that a Hanford worker told KING. The workers are employed by Washington River Protection Solutions WRPS the organization responsible for cleaning approximately 53 million gallons of high level radioactive and chemical waste stored in the containers at Hanford. The facility dates back to the Manhattan Project in the 1940s. For decades it produced the majority of the plutonium for the US nuclear weapons arsenal. In 1988 production stopped and the site became a burying ground for radioactive waste. Hanford has since become the most contaminated spot in the Western Hemisphere prompting a multi billion dollar clean up process that isnt expected to be completed until 2060. The soils under Hanford are extensively contaminated over a broad broad area. The one thing you dont want to do is create more waste sites said Dirk Dunning a chemical engineer and Hanford expert. WRPS told state investigators that workers dumped around 15 gallons of potentially toxic water on August 15 and 200 gallons on August 17 according to a document from the Department of Ecology. Washington law makes it a gross misdemeanor to discharge pollutants into the water or soil. The company was also required to report any discharge of toxic waste to the Department of Ecology within 24 hours. However WRPS did not report the discharges for nearly a month and a notification from the Department of Ecology shows the company only made the report days after KING emailed WRPS federal and state officials and the Environmental Crimes Unit of the state Office of the Attorney General about the incident. They knew it was wrong to dump the liquids but they did it anyway. They were hoping no one would question it. They definitely knew it should have been reported a WRPS employee said. WRPS had been tasked with digging up 18 underground nuclear waste hoses and putting them in containers which would then be buried in a nuclear waste dump at the facility. When workers found one of their containers filled with rainwater they decided to dump it onto the ground rather than testing the water or transferring it to new containers. A contract shows the company would earn 58333 for each hose that was removed for a total of more than 1 million dollars if they finished the project by September 30. WRPS dumped the toxic liquid in order to meet their deadline said Tom Carpenter executive director at Hanford Challenge a watchdog organization working to keep contractors working at the facility accountable. They are here for the money and thats it Carpenter told KING. This fee structure ignores human nature which is to take shortcuts to get the money without any accountability unless they get caught. The Department of Ecology has launched an investigation and has already been to the site to take soil samples to check for chemicals such as arsenic lead and fluorene at the first dumping site. However after WRPS did a radiological survey and identified beta and gamma radioactive contamination they removed the contaminated soil and surrounding debris which can no longer be tested by investigators. The disposal of radioactive waste at Hanford has been plagued with problems. RT visited the site last year after workers were evacuated from the facility due to a leak of thousands of gallons of toxic waste. Locals said that the site occasionally burps radiation which has led to a number of employees developing serious medical conditions over the years. In August the company tested more than 300 workers and found 20 percent tested positive for radiation contamination. The Department of Energy estimates that 444 billion gallons of radioactive material and chemical waste were discharged onto the grounds of the facility and into the Columbia River in the first 50 years since the facility opened. Dumping at the site without a permit became illegal after the nonprofit advocacy group Heart of America Northwest sued the Department of Energy in 1993. After seeing the recent footage of workers dumping the toxic waste at the site state Representative Gerry Pollet who also serves as the executive director of Heart of America Northwest called their actions outrageous. This is the kind of thing that caused Hanford to be the most contaminated place in the Western Hemisphere in the first place. I am shocked to see something like this in 2017 Pollet said. Its a crime. Im convinced by looking at this that youre witnessing a criminal violation of several statues not just one.	True	True	False	False	True
Joe Biden has been roundly mocked on Twitter after making the unlikely claim to a young activist appealing for a presidential debate on climate change that he kicked off the whole global warming movement back in the late 1980s. A young activist from US Youth Climate Strike asked Biden if he would support a presidential climate policy forum organized by the group. Biden interrupted the girl before she was finished asking By the way did you know Im the guy who did all this? Read Real Clear Politics it will tell you about how I started this whole thing back in 1987 climate change. Social media users were quick to criticize Bidens response with some mocking him for saying he had started climate change and others pointing out that his 1987 effort didnt really work out so well. Biden has repeatedly boasted of his 80s climate change concern telling voters he was the first to introduce a climate bill. In 1987 Biden delivered a Senate speech warning of the dangers of global warming and his Global Climate Protection Act called for setting up a task force to plan to tackle the issue. While he is the first to have a climate bill passed he certainly isnt the first politician to raise the alarm about climate change let alone have started the whole thing. Congressman Al Gore held House hearings on climate change in 1976 and as a senator introduced a resolution calling for a research program into greenhouse gas emissions in 1985. The following year Republican Senator John Chafee held Senate climate hearings warning of the serious problem and featuring an expert explaining that significant warming could happen within 5 15 years. Biden has been criticized for reportedly planning a middle ground approach to climate policy that is accused of lacking urgency and not going far enough. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	True	True	False	True	True
Teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg has already caused a sensation on her trip to North America tearing into world leaders yesterday in an emotional speech at the United Nations and giving a death stare to Donald Trump. What is not yet clear is how the 16 year old will get back to Sweden because she refuses to travel on fuel guzzling planes and the 60ft racing boat she travelled on is already back in Europe. Two crew members have flown to the U.S. to sail the Malizia II back across the Atlantic and it is not yet clear exactly when Thunberg will be going home. When she set off from Britain last month she admitted 'I don't know yet how I will get home'. Non stop flights from London to New York City take between eight to ten hours for a 3470 mile journey. It equates to about 183910 pounds of emissions per flight between the two cities and Thunberg refuses to add to the environmental cost. She has also persuaded her parents to stop flying hampering her mother's career as an international opera singer. 'My generation wont be able to fly other than for emergencies in a foreseeable future if we are to be the least bit serious' about limiting global warming she has previously said. Thunberg also refuses to travel aboard a cruise ship as they are also notoriously big polluters. The Malizia II is now back in France after sailing back from New York without Thunberg. Unless the Malizia II returns to North America she will have to find a different mode of transport back across the Atlantic when she eventually leaves. In the meantime she plans to promote her climate agenda across North America. This week she will travel from New York to Montreal to join a school climate strike in Canada on what is expected to be a day of global protests. She also hopes to visit Mexico and is due in Chile for a climate summit in December travelling across the Americasby bus and train. The 16 year old is taking a year out of school to lobby for climate action after starting the school strike movement in Sweden last August. She skipped school for the first three weeks after term began and then took Fridays off to spend the day outside Sweden's parliament with a sign labelled 'School strike for climate'. Her protests have inspired wealthy donors to contribute to a Climate Emergency Fund to support the protests and the simultaneous Extinction Rebellion movement. Its donors include heiress Aileen Getty American philanthropist Trevor Neilson and filmmaker Rory Kennedy a member of the political Kennedy clan. The Swedish teenager named this week's UN Climate Action Summit and the Chile conference in December as her main reasons for crossing the Atlantic. She said last year she had beeninvited to speak around the world but refused to make the necessary flights. But in June she said 'it looks like a large part of our future will probably be decided in New York and Santiago' and agreed to travel to North America on the yacht. Pierre Casiraghi the grandson of Monaco's late Prince Rainier III and American actress Grace Kelly and fellow yachtsman Boris Herrmann offered her passage on the Malizia II. She arrived last month after a two week journey aboard the racing yacht. Thunberg documented parts of her journey on Twitter where she included videos of choppy weather conditions photos of herself and the crew and commentaries about climate change. Last week she joined a school strike in New York City where school officials allowed pupils the day off to attend the protest. In her impassioned address yesterday she said 'This is all wrong. I shouldn't be up here.I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean. 'Yet you have come to us young people for hope. How dare you?'You have stolen my dreams my childhood with your empty words. 'Yet I'm one of the lucky ones. People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth. How dare you?' 'The eyes of future generations are on you and if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you. We will not let you get away with this.' Trump sent a mocking tweet saying 'She seems like a very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future. So nice to see!' Fewer than half the 136 heads of government or state in New York this week to attend the UN General Assembly attended on Monday. Ahead of the conference the United Nations issued a release saying 66 countries vowed to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 along with 10 regions 102 cities and scores of businesses.	True	True	False	True	False
A mid spring snowstorm in Colorado over the weekend postponed a rally that sought to bring attention climate change and global warming as well as protest President Donald Trumps climate policies. A march slated to take place in Colorado Springs on Saturday had to be cancelled after weather forecasters predicted heavy snowfall and blizzard like conditions. Only a few inches of snow fell in the Colorado Springs area but more than a foot of snow fell on other parts of the state. Sometimes Mother Nature throws you a curveball! We know we arent in the business of risking anyones safety. Dangerous conditions and wet heavy snow in the forecast for tomorrow a local climate change organization wrote on their Facebook page. The rally and march was rescheduled for Sunday afternoon. The freezing weather and snow however was unable to postpone a similar rally in Denver where pictures of a snowman at the global warming rally made rounds on Twitter. As well as an ironic sign In other parts of the country where similar marches and rallies took place the weather was a little kinder to the liberal climate alarmist narrative. In Washington D.C. the temperature was in the upper 80s to near 90 as people gathered to protest Trumps climate policies. The Peoples Climate March which was supported by hundreds of thousands across the country and tens of thousands in Washington was sponsored by environmental groups labor unions and social justice groups. Video showed thousands marching in the streets of Washington where former Vice President Al Gore Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Virgin Atlantic owner Richard Branson showed up to protest as well. This weekends protests come one week after last weeks March for Science.	True	False	False	True	True
Reuters Hurricane Irma will pose the toughest test yet for U.S. nuclear power plants since reactors strengthened their defenses against natural disasters following the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear accident in Japan in 2011. Irma was on course to hit South Florida early on Sunday after slamming Cuba as a Category 5 storm. It weakened to a Category 3 storm with maximum sustained winds of 130 miles per hour 210 km per hour on Saturday but was expected to strengthen before reaching Florida bringing a storm surge to a state home to four coastal nuclear reactors. The National Hurricane Centers forecast track shows Irma making landfall on the southwest side of the Florida Peninsula west of the two nuclear reactors at the Turkey Point plant. The operator Florida Power Light FPL has said it will shut Turkey Point well before hurricane strength winds reach the plant. The reactors are about 30 miles 42 kilometers south of Miami. FPL said it will also shut the other nuclear plant in Florida at St Lucie which also has two reactors on a barrier island on the states east coast about 120 miles 193 km north of Miami. We will shut the reactors down 24 hours before Category 1 force winds are forecast to hit FPL Chief Executive Eric Silagy told a news conference. FPL said both Turkey Point and St Lucie were designed to withstand storms stronger than any ever recorded in the region and both plants are elevated 20 feet 6 meters above sea level to protect against flooding and extreme storm surges. But South Miami Mayor Philip Stoddard said he was concerned about the potential for floods to damage power generators at Turkey Point which in turn might threaten the ability of the plant to keep spent nuclear fuel rods cool. At Fukushima in Japan an earthquake and tsunami disrupted power supplies and caused the fuel in some units to meltdown. The whole site is pretty well able to handle dangerous wind the real problem from my perspective is water Stoddard said. He said he was more worried about the nuclear waste than the reactors. The real question is can they keep the spent fuel cool. Peter Robbins an FPL spokesman said Mayor Stoddard is wrong. Turkey Point is safe and is ready for Hurricane Irma. U.S. nuclear operators have taken steps to improve preparations for disasters since Fukushima. The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission NRC required plants to install portable pumps and generators to keep water moving over fuel rods and the spent fuel pool even if offsite power supply was lost. Nuclear plants also hired more staff and stored equipment needed to deal with reactor problems. Things are better today than in March 2011. Time will tell whether better proves good enough said Dave Lochbaum director of a watchdog group the nuclear safety project at the Union of Concerned Scientists. The NRC said it was posting more inspectors at the two Florida plants and was considering sending more inspectors to plants in Georgia and South Carolina should the storm head that way. The NRC said the plants should not be compromised by Irmas storm surge. The storm surge forecasts that we have seen so far do not challenge the sites designs said NRC spokesman Scott Burnell. Both Florida plants have previously weathered major storms. Turkey Point took a hit from Hurricane Andrew a Category 5 storm in 1992 damaging a smokestack at fossil fuel plant at the site. Repairs cost about 90 million. St Lucie withstood the back to back impact of Hurricanes Frances Category 2 and Jeanne Category 3 in 2004. FPL shut St Lucie last October as Hurricane Matthew skirted the Florida coast. Lochbaum said the NRC and the industry could do more to reduce vulnerability to flooding. In January 2014 about 50000 gallons of rainwater leaked into the St Lucie plant after a heavy downpour. An NRC study blamed degraded and missing flood seals that were not discovered during checks after Fukushima. There is also spent nuclear fuel at the site of a third power plant in Florida which stopped operating in 2009. That is the Crystal River plant owned by Duke Energy Corp. Duke is in the process of transferring used fuel from the spent fuel pool at the plant to dry cask storage as part of work to decommission the plant. Once in storage the fuel no longer needs cooling. The NRCs Burnell said Duke has suspended work to transfer the rods ahead of Irma. He said the fuel was safe and the plant also has backup power even though it has been shut for years. Irma is expected to disrupt much of Floridas power supply. FPL the states largest electric company has warned Irma could cut service to about 4.1 million of its nearly 5 million customers. FPL is one of four large publicly traded utilities in Florida. Other natural disasters since Fukushima have shut some plants. An earthquake in Virginia in 2011 shut Dominion Energy Incs North Anna plant for about 2 12 months the time it took to complete a full damage inspection. That plant sustained no major damage. Hurricane Sandy in 2012 caused three reactors in the U.S. Northeast to shut but inflicted no serious damage.	False	False	False	True	True
wikimedia commons Its now inevitable that the contiguous United States will lose all of its glaciers within a matter of decades according to scientists who have revealed the precipitous shrinkage of dozens of glaciers in Montana. Warming temperatures have rapidly reduced the size of 39 named glaciers in Montana since 1966 according to comparisons released by the US Geological Survey USGS and Portland State University. Some have lost as much as 85 of their expanse over the past 50 years with Glacier national park site of 37 of the surveyed glaciers set to lose all of its eponymous ice formations within the next few decades. Of the 150 glaciers that existed in the park in the late 19th century only 26 remain. The disappearance of glaciers in Montana is part of a broader loss that will see all glaciers defined as moving bodies of snow and ice larger than 25 acres largely vanish from the lower 48 states of America by the mid point of the century according to Dr Daniel Farge lead USGS scientist. Its inevitable that we will lose them all over the next few decades Farge said. The Colorado glaciers started melting before Montanas and while there are larger glaciers in the Pacific north west that will hold on longer the number vanishing will steadily grow until none are left. Andrew Fountain a geologist at Portland State added While the shrinkage in Montana is more severe than some other places in the US it is in line with trends that have been happening on a global scale. Rising temperatures Montana is warming nearly twice as quickly as the global average and changes in precipitation patterns are eroding away glaciers in the state and elsewhere along the Rocky mountains. Last year scientists in Colorado found that the Arikaree glacier which is likely more than 1000 years old has been thinning by around a metre 3.2ft a year over the past decade and will vanish within 25 years. 	True	False	False	True	False
Britishtaxpayers face paying more to help developing countries tackle climate change after Donald Trump's withdrawal from the Paris agreement left a 2.3billion black hole. The US President pulled the plug on billions of dollars his country pledged as part of a 78billion international commitment to help poor countries switch to renewable energy. And now other rich nations including the UK could be called on to cover the cost. International Development Secretary Priti Patel yesterday indicated she would be reluctant to plug the financial gap left by Mr Trump's decision to pull out. She stressed the importance of the fund in heading off wider humanitarian crises such as droughts and floods and said leaders should focus on cutting waste from the programme rather than pumping in more cash immediately. Asked whether the UK could contribute more she told the Daily Mail 'It is not always about money it is about ways of working and how to achieve effective outcomes. 'I think we can work more effectively in making sure that every pound that goes in to the fund is achieving what it is meant to do.' Mr Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris agreement was met with dismay around the world yesterday. China and Europe pledged to unite to save 'Mother Earth' as others including the UK and Russia reaffirmed their commitment to the international accord. A key part of the 2015 Paris deal signed by more than 190 nations was a commitment from the richest nations to contribute 78billion a year to the Green Climate Fund to help poorer countries tackle global warming. The UK has promised 720million money that comes from the foreign aid budget and private investors. Former president Barack Obama had pledged 2.3billion from the US. The Paris Climate Agreement commits nations to reduce carbon emissions to stop the world overheating. But Mr Trump who previously dismissed climate change as a 'Chinese hoax' wants to renegotiate terms that are 'fairer' to the US. In a Press conference after a summit between the EU and China European Council president Donald Tusk said the bloc was stepping up co operation with China on climate change. 'Today China and Europe have demonstrated solidarity with future generations and responsibility for the planet' he said. Russia said it was still likely to back the Paris pact although a Kremlin spokesman said Washington's withdrawal had punched a gaping hole in the agreement because the US was one of the biggest generators of emissions. Coal crazy China tries to improve its image Chinahas stepped forward to replace the US as a world leader on climate change. Donald Trump's withdrawal from the Paris climate accord will bolster China's global stature and help it profit from renewable energy investment an expert predicts. That is despite China being the top emitter of greenhouse gases and by far the world's largest consumer of coal. In a joint statement yesterday the EU and China said action on climate change was 'more important than ever' and both committed to 'significantly intensify' their efforts. Nick Mabey of the climate change think tank E3G said it was the 'strongest bilateral statement on climate' he had seen adding 'President Trump has driven the EU and China together to write the rules for the clean economy.' Coal still accounted for 62 per cent of China's total energy consumption in 2016. In January it suspended or cancelled plans to build another 100 coal fueled power plants. But dozens more are still expected to be built. US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson sought to ward off criticism by saying the US would continue trying to curb greenhouse emissions despite pulling out of the Paris accord. But French President Emmanuel Macron turned Mr Trump's 'Make America Great Again' campaign slogan on its head saying that it was time to 'make the planet great again'. Prime Minister Theresa May told Mr Trump of her 'disappointment' at his decision in a phone call with the President shortly after his announcement on Thursday. But she was criticised by Labour for failing to add her name to a joint statement issued by European leaders to say that the Paris climate accord cannot be renegotiated as Mr Trump has demanded. Jeremy Corbyn said 'Given the chance to present a united front from our international partners she Mrs May has instead opted for silence and once again subservience to Donald Trump. It's a dereliction of both her duty to this country and our duty to our planet.' Gareth Redmond King head of climate and energy at the World Wide Fund for Nature said investment in renewable energy was a great business opportunity. 'We're calling on the next UK government to step up as a global leader on tackling climate change' he said. 'It is what the public wants it makes economic sense and it is what the world needs in order to safeguard the lives of future generations.'	True	False	False	False	False
In the last year alone California has seen catastrophic wildfires burn thousands of acres. On Tuesday the ongoing Camp Fire in Northern California became the state's deadliest blaze in history. How do these deadly fires start and why is California so susceptible? Officials define wildfires or wildland fires as any fire occurring on undeveloped land. Forest fires are uncontrolled wildfires burning in lands covered at least in part by timber or flammable vegetation. In nature two things can spark wildfires lava and lightning. According to the National Park Service 90 of wildfires in the US are caused by humans whether by unattended campfires burning debris cigarettes or arson. About 2 of California's 2816 wildfires in 2016 were caused by lightning according to data from the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection Cal Fire. The majority could be attributed to humans though only 8 were caused by arson. According to Prof David Peterson of the University of Washington a former senior researcher with the US Forest Service fires in the region have not necessarily increased in frequency in the last 100 years but the area affected has. The area burned annually has been higher during the past 30 years or so he told the BBC. It should be noted that 2 of fires burn 98 of the area. In California recent years have seen a combination of extremely high temperatures strong winds a long drought and population growth causing lethal fast moving blazes. Last year the state had over 9500 wildfires that burned over a million acres according to the National Interagency Fire Center and had the highest number of homes and buildings lost in one state. And straying away from natural burning cycles has also contributed to the lethality of recent fires Prof Peterson says. Keeping fires from starting in Western forests has caused fuel to accumulate far beyond historical levels. Therefore when fires occur they can burn hotter he says. These high intensity fires can cause rapid and in some cases long term changes in vegetation making it more difficult for the ecosystem to recover. Once evacuation orders are issued by local law enforcement residents generally have hours to leave Cal Fire information officer Kathleen Schori told the BBC. But in those initial stages of fire you may have minutes she added. Fleeing in a vehicle is ideal as most wildfires cannot be outrun. But the Camp Fire's especially rapid spread fuelled by high winds made the situation even more dangerous. This fire moved so fast I don't think anybody did anything wrong Ms Schori says when asked whether those forced to abandon vehicles and escape on foot could have acted differently. During the initial phases it was burning 80 miles in an hour. She stressed the importance of following evacuation orders immediately especially with fast moving blazes. If you don't evacuate and it becomes a rescue situation then our firefighters are taken away from the firefight and moved to the rescue. Sometimes you do fight fire with fire. In addition to old fashioned water and flame retardant delivered from ground level and above the flames by aircraft sometimes firefighters have to burn more to quell the flames. Intentionally burning areas around a wildfire can help starve the blaze and control its direction. Clearing out brush and flammable material from an area to create firebreaks is another way to achieve the same. Ninety eight percent of fires are small andor suppressed quickly Prof Peterson says. The other 2 are very challenging when they get large and are almost impossible to put out at least until it rains. Ms Schori of Cal Fire said that with wind driven blazes like the Camp Fire officials often have no choice but to wait for conditions to improve. There are never enough firefighters to combat a fire that's moving as fast as this was moving she says. You have to deploy your resources on each side of the fire and continue to construct lines. And when that wind stops then you can safely get in front it. Prof Peterson says there is no hard evidence that climate change has affected US wildfires yet. We expect that there will be significant effects in future decades as the climate continues to warm he told the BBC. A warming climate Prof Peterson explained would increase the duration of the fire season and more droughts would in turn create more wildfire fuel. Globally the length of the wildfire season has already increased by nearly 19 between 1978 and 2013. By around 2050 fires may burn two to three times more area than they have historically. According to 2017 data from Verisk Analytics 4.5 million US homes were in areas of high or extreme wildfire risk and over 2 million of those homes were in California. Damage caused by wildfires has cost 5.1bn in the last decade Verisk found. In California homeowners who do not qualify for private insurance coverage can opt into a statewide pool called the Fair Access to Insurance Requirements FAIR plan. FAIR is comprised of all property and casualty insurers in California and is not run by a state agency.	False	False	True	True	False
This story was originally published byHuffPostand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration. The Evergreen States third and latest attempt to put a price on climate pollution failed Tuesday as voters rejected the historic ballot measure notching yet another win for the oil and gas industry. The measure known as Initiative 1631 aimed to put a levy of 15 per metric ton of carbon dioxide emissions starting in January 2020. The fee would have increased 2 annually until the state met its goals for cutting heat trapping gas pollution. The revenue was designed to be directed toward projects accelerating the states shift away from fossil fuels including expanding public transit energy efficiency retrofits for big buildings and new wind and solar powered plants. Washington already tried to pass more traditional carbon taxes. In November 2016 voters rejected a proposal for a tax of 25 per metric ton of carbon dioxide which aimed to cut the state sales tax 1 percent fund a tax credit of up to 1500 for low income households and cut the tax rate for manufacturers. In March a bill to enact a carbon tax escalating 1.80 per ton each year until hitting 30 in 2031 failed in the state Senate when it fell one or two votes short prompting the sponsor to pull the legislation. But Initiative 1631 took a different approach imposing the carbon price in the form of a fee. Under Washington State law a feeas opposed to a taxcannot be spent on government expenses such as public education or welfare meaning all the revenue the fee raises must fund climate related projects. That put it more in line with the Green New Deal a term progressive activists coined to describe a set of proposals for major government spending plans to mitigate the impacts of climate change. Scientists say such policies are necessary to make the kinds of emissions cuts required to avert the worst impacts of climate change. Just last month a sobering United Nations report found that world government must halve global emissions over the next 12 years to avoid cataclysmic warming and that technologies to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere are still likely necessary. Yet fears over rising gas prices proved more convincing to Evergreen State voters. The Western States Petroleum Association raised over 31 milliona record for Washington ballot initiativesfor its No campaign spending nearly 30 million of it by the start of this month. The campaign dispensed 10.8 million in the last two weeks of October alone. The loss came as Coloradans voted down Proposition 112 a measure that would have put about 85 percent of non federal land in the Centennial State off limits to oil and gas drilling.	True	True	False	True	True
Comedian Bill Nye accused CNN of doing a disservice to its viewers for inviting a well respected physicist on Earth Day to argue about the legitimacy of man made global warming. Nye who is well known for hosting a childrens TV show in the 1990s scolded CNNs New Day Saturday panel Saturday for pitting his environmentalist pedigree against the climate skepticism of physicistWilliam Happer. He also suggested the 24 news channel should instead drown out people like Happer with 98 scientists who believe in man made global warming. And I will say much as I love the CNN youre doing a disservice by having one climate change skeptic and not 97 or 98 scientists or engineers concerned about climate change Nye said after the Princeton University academic suggested that it is a myth to believe that carbon dioxide is a pollutant causing widespread ecological destruction. Carbon dioxide is a perfectly natural gas its just like water vapor its something that plants love. They grow better with more carbon dioxide and you can see the greening of the earth already from the additional carbon dioxide in the atmosphere he added. He went on to say that Nyes views on science are backward. Science is based on observation Happer said and if you observe whats happening to for example the temperature the temperature is not rising nearly as fast as the alarmist computer models predicted. Its much much less factors of two or three less. Happer a science adviser to President Donald Trump made public his skeptical views on climate change in January. He told reporters that climate change is tremendously exaggerated adding that climate research is important but I think its become sort of a cult movement in the last five years. Nye who has a degree in engineering but no professional science background called Happers position completely wrong and suggested the physicist was cherry picking a certain model. Some scientists maintain people like Nye are the ones cherry picking data. Climate models predicted Antarctic sea ice would shrink and that climate change would boost snowfall in the southern hemisphere yet neither of those predictions have panned out. In fact scientists now say natural variability is overwhelming their models. Scientists with Columbia Universitys Earth Institute for instance found theres beenalmost no change in Antarcticas snowfall. They blamed strong natural variability for the models failures. Scientists have also warned thatAntarctica has been losing 147 gigatons of ice per yearfor years mostly from melting on the northern Antarctic Peninsula. A NASA conducted in 2015 meanwhile foundAntarcticas ice sheet increased in mass from 1992 to 2008 which essentially offset ice melting in the western part of the Antarctic. Nye for his part has been one of the most belligerent apostle for the environmental movement. Hes even suggested that throwingglobal warming skeptics in jail could be a potential solutionduring an interview with the conservative Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON Michigan GOP Rep. Tim Walberg isnt concerned about the effects of climate change if it exists because God will take care of it. Walberg was speaking to constituents in Coldwater Mich. last week when he was asked about climate change. Walbergwho has previously questioned the existence of global warmingfirst joked that he could take some global warming at home in Michigan because it was too cold and some global cooling in Washingtonbecause of the humidity. Walberg then conceded that the climate was changing before adding that wasn't anything new. I believe theres climate change Walberg said according to a video of the exchange obtained first published by the Huffington Post. I believe theres been climate change since the beginning of time. I think there are cycles. Do I think man has some impact? Yeah of course. Can man change the entire universe? No. Why do I believe that? he continued. Well as a Christian I believe that there is a creator in God who is much bigger than us. And Im confident that if theres a real problem he can take care of it. On Thursday afternoon President Trump is expected to announce whether the United States will remain a member of the Paris climate agreement. Trump hasnt announced whether hell make good on his campaign promise to leave the pact which includes every country besidesSyria and Nicaragua but multiple outlets have reported he's leaning towards dropping out.	True	True	False	True	False
Air pollution is not just bad for health also makes people unhappy a new study has shown. Researchers at MIT and the University of Beijing discovered a direct link between the amount of particulates in the air and happiness. Research has previously shown that air pollution is damaging to health cognitive performance labor productivity and educational outcomes. But air pollution also has a broader impact on people's social lives and behavior according Siqi Zheng the Samuel Tak Lee Associate Professor in MIT's Department of Urban Studies Pollution also has an emotional cost said Dr Zheng. People are unhappy and that means they may make irrational decisions. Researchers used pollution data from 144 Chinese cities and monitored general happiness of urban dwellers by looking at the mood using 210 million messages from China's largest microblogging platform Sina Weibo. They found a significantly negative correlation between pollution and happiness levels with every increase in pollution above a healthy level bringing happiness down by 0.04 points out of 100. On Monday some parts of London recorded Air Quality Index AQI levels of 151 more than 100 points above healthy limits. It suggests that people were four points unhappier than they would have been without polluted levels. For China pollution can rise into the 700s which could be having a major impact on happiness. Women were also found to me more sensitive to higher pollution levels than men as were those on higher incomes. The research was published in the journal Nature Human Behaviour.	False	False	False	True	False
There must be a new approach to public policy development that makes Earth First. Property economy and jobs must serve Earth First. The planning frame should be at least 100 years possibly 1000 NOT 25. Environmental change is occurring so fast that small decisions made locally avalanche regionally e.g. downstream pollution or even globally e.g. ozone layer destruction. The Economic Growth discussion is always the same highest and best value a misnomer if ever there was one profits trump survival pun intended. Fat City is over although many are still trying to milk it for the last bit of cream we call these asshats Vulture Capitalists they feed off the dead and wounded. We must do more with less and the rich must share or move out. We dont need more deadhead users and freeloaders. We must develop a mutually supportive community again. The business of government is the peoples business developers step to the rear. Legislators must renounce corporate campaign contributions as contrary to the public good. We must CONTROL land and resource value to discourage speculation and eliminate or lessen the wide market swings due to nerves or manipulation. We must impose firm honest value on land and resources and discourage speculative over inflation speculation is not bad per se but it is one of the easiest activities to exaggerate and corrupt. We need a National Land Use Comprehensive Plan. Unlimited Growth is the ethos of a cancer cell observes David Suzuki noted biologist. Because one cannot personally conceive of an alternative to growth does not mean that one does not exist. Sustainability is NOT a myth it is an under represented and too often wrongfully rejected younger child the one bearing truth to co dependent addicted parents in deep denial over their multi generational destruction of the natural environment. Three well known parables apply One more stick with the pin? Deal with it later? Turn up the heat? Earths Life Support Systems Failing. The world has failed to slow the accelerating extinction crisis despite years of international effort. It is hard to imagine a more important priority. The biodiversity of life on Earth comprises the ecosystems that provide climate regulation foodfiber clean water and air. Like a Dooms Day asteroid human over population pollution logging over exploitation consumption land use changes and engineering projects have produced the planets sixth great extinction of species. Freshwater Species that live in lakes and rivers are vanishing four to six times faster than anywhere else. There is clear and growing scientific evidence that we are on the verge of a major freshwater biodiversity crisis. We are in a life threatening situation and must make fundamental and absolute changes without delay. We cannot give just a bit more to Trump and his greedy followers. Spoiled children need discipline in order to live wholesome productive lives. Developers energy barons other planet killers and we must settle for less and work together to plan and build a healthy sustainable community. We require teamwork to endure what is coming. We have no luxury to indulge selfish ignorant behaviors. What are our politicians doing that makes any positive difference? Let us ask them. Demand Party Platforms that respond to reality justice science and full democracy. Demand to be treated like adults. How to Help Where to find the Action Get Corporations out of Government movetoamend.org Be Sure to VOTE take a new registered progressive voter to the polls with you.	True	True	False	True	True
PAHOA Hawaii Reuters A large explosion in Hawaiis Kilauea volcano on Wednesday may mark the beginning of more violent explosive eruptions that could spray rocks for miles kilometers and dust nearby towns in volcanic ash and smog the U.S. Geological Survey said. Kilauea Hawaiis most active volcano erupted on Thursday and a powerful earthquake shook the crater the next day. Lava flows from fissures on its flank have destroyed at least 36 homes and other buildings and caused the evacuation of some 2000 residents. The USGS warned that more violent eruptions at the crater could begin mid May shooting rocks weighing several tons for over half a mile 1 km hurling pebble sized projectiles several miles km and dusting areas up 20 miles 32 km away with ash. This is the first of perhaps more events like that to come Tina Neal the scientist in charge of the USGS Hawaiian Volcano Observatory said on a conference call of Wednesdays blast which shot projectiles from the crater. The town of Hilo some 25 miles 40 km northeast of Kilauea on Hawaiis Big Island and the village of Pahoa 24 miles 39 km east could be exposed to volcanic air pollution or so called vog and a layer of ash should explosive eruptions begin and prevailing wind directions shift Neal said. Such steam driven explosions would be triggered by water running into the craters falling lava lake should it drop below the level of groundwater. Geologists cautioned that Kilaueas past explosions had been relatively small on a global scale and while ash from the volcano posed a nuisance as an eye and respiratory irritant it was not a serious health hazard. We dont anticipate there being any wholesale devastation or evacuations necessary anywhere in the state of Hawaii said Donald Swanson of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory.USGS Hawaii County Civil Defense said all 1900 residents of the Leilani Estates and Laipuna Garden areas around 25 miles 40 km east of the crater had been evacuated. Lava oozing from two new fissures in the area had paused but sulfur dioxide gas was still a hazard. Exposure to very high levels of the gas which causes acid rain can be life threatening according to the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. Evacuee David Nail was anxious to learn if his house had been destroyed. He was asleep on the couch when a fissure opened up 2000 feet 610 meters away spewing out lava and gas. It sounded like 10 or 20 jet engines said Nail. The 57 year old who recently retired to the area from Orange County California said he had seen drone footage showing lava flowing up his driveway causing two propane tanks to explode. He tried to reach his house on Tuesday but he and his neighbors were blocked by a 20 foot tall 6 meter tall wall of lava. All we could do was sit there and cry he said. Fourteen fissures have opened since Kilaueas vents started spraying fountains of lava up to 300 feet 90 meters into the air on Thursday and about 104 acres 42 hectares of land have been covered with lava. Kilauea has been in a state of nearly constant eruption for 35 years. It predominantly blows off basaltic lava in effusive eruptions that flow into the ocean but occasionally experiences more explosive events. A powerful magnitude 6.9 earthquake on the volcanos south flank shook the area on Friday. It was the second largest of the last century in Hawaii. More earthquakes and eruptions have been forecast perhaps for months to come. Hawaiis Volcanoes National Park where Kilauea is located remains open to tourists albeit with some restrictions.	True	False	False	False	False
The trough is about 3.5 km about 2 miles below sea level but there is no ocean water there. Instead it is filled with ice flowing from the interior of the ice sheet towards the coast. The trough measures about 100 km in length and is 20 km wide according to the study. This new discovery was presented at the American Geophysical Union's Fall Meeting in San Francisco. Dr. Mathieu Morlighem an associate professor in the Department of Earth System Science at the University of California at Irvine is leading this project. The biggest challenge about the project is that Antarctica is HUGE! he said excitedly. It's bigger than the U.S. and Mexico combined. Morlighem and his team used a new technology called BedMachine to make this discovery. They developed a new generation ice sheet model but it was not behaving as expected. The artificial glacier growing in the desert After months of investigation we realized that it was not because we were missing important processes. It was because the bed topography under the ice was missing many important features such as troughs ridges valleys etc he said. And because of the size of the area they were trying to map the process was very time consuming. The team combined radar measurements with high precision surface motion data from satellites and snow accumulation from regional climate models to get a good estimate of the shape of the bed where it had not been measured. We applied this mapping technique to the entire ice sheet and we discovered this very deep valley hidden underneath the ice sheet Morlighem said. He said one of the challenges they faced during the project was gathering all the available data since there have been many radar surveys but done by different institutions in different countries. They also had some surprises on the way. The main ones are these ridges across the Transantarctic Mountains Denman glacier but also some other glaciers feeding the Ronne Ice Shelf that seem to be more vulnerable than we thought Morlighem said. Morlighem says climate change could impact this region. A massive waterfall formed on Greenland's ice sheet. Here's why it matters We now have to monitor this glacier carefully. If its grounding line where the ice starts to float starts to retreat in this deep canyon it could retreat rapidly due to a mechanism called Marine Ice Sheet Instability. he said. Glaciers that flow on beds that deepen inland are unstable and so the glacier will potentially have to retreat all the way until the bed rises again leading to significant sea level rise. It could be one of the most vulnerable sectors of East Antarctica which holds significantly more ice than west Antarctica. But there is good news as far as climate change goes. The study says that major glaciers flowing through the Transantarctic Mountains and across Victoria Land are found to be protected by broad stabilizing topographic ridges near their grounding lines that reflect the surrounding topographic relief. The glaciers flowing across the Transantarctic Mountains all have a pronounced ridge across their troughs Morlighem said. These ridges were unknown and make this sector of the ice sheet extremely resilient to increase in ocean induced melting. In other words he said If the Ross Ice Shelf destabilizes it should not lead to a collapse of East Antarctica.	False	False	False	True	False
Wyoming's economy is dominated by coal other fossil fuels and mineral extraction. The formula here has worked residents in Wyoming enjoy among the highest per capita GDP in the nation. So naturally there's been some hostility toward new sources of energy that could threaten that. It's a complicated history with wind says Jeremiah Rieman director of economic diversification strategy for Wyoming Gov. Matt Mead R. I think you're seeing a change. And certainly we're hearing the message loud and clear as we go through this economic diversification strategy effort that wind and renewables need to be a part of that. The push toward wind is playing out in a high rise office building 100 miles south of Wyoming's capital in Denver. There TransWest Express is laying out plans to build a 730 mile transmission line across the American West. CEO Bill Miller points to a map and the start of the project 1000 wind turbines to be built on a ranch in south central Wyoming. It starts there and runs a little bit west and then due south into northwest Colorado says Miller tracing a line through Utah and then down south of Las Vegas. If all goes according to plan in three years Miller says the winds of low population Wyoming will be bringing electricity to where it's needed in California. To my knowledge this is the largest transmission line development that has occurred in this country in probably 50 years. TransWest Express which is part of the Anschutz Corporation owned by billionaire Phillip Anschutz is looking to harness Wyoming's wind because well it's super windy. The winds howl in southeast Wyoming because they're rising at the continental divide then pushing through a gap in the Rocky Mountains. So if you remember your high school physics class there's this thing called the Venturi effect where you narrow something and that naturally speeds up an air flow. And that's really what we have here says economist Robert Godby director of the Center for Energy Economics and Public Policy at the University of Wyoming. Wyoming may have strong winds but the state ranks just 16th for wind generation. Godby says Wyoming hasn't exactly made things attractive for developers We have the only wind generation tax in the country where we actually tax people who produce electricity with wind. Meanwhile many other states are creating incentives for wind development for example by creating renewable portfolio standards that require a state to obtain a certain amount of its energy from sources like wind and solar. I think it's really unfair that Wyoming has this reputation for being hostile to wind or anti wind says Jason Beggar director the Wyoming Infrastructure Authority a state entity tasked with developing large transmission projects. It's not an anti wind philosophy it's just the philosophy of the state we tax our natural resources to fund government. Beggar says it's tough to build in Wyoming because roughly half of the state is federally owned land. So when you go to Texas or you go to Iowa you're generally just negotiating with a landowner whether it's a farmer whomever says Beggar. Well in Wyoming you have to file permits with the federal government and that includes things like land use wildlife mitigation mineral disturbances. There are factors and factors and factors. Beggar says the Trump administration has shown a willingness to cut red tape and move things along more quickly. Meanwhile conservationists and environmentalists have bristled at the rollback of regulations. There's another challenge facing Wyoming wind climate change skepticism. Coal burns dirty and produces a lot of greenhouse gases. Many states are pushing renewable energy to move away from that. But in Wyoming it's complicated. Climate change is a pretty tough subject to talk about with some people because it's a threat no matter how you look at it says Robert Godby. It's a threat to world climate it's also a threat to people's livelihoods in Wyoming. And those two things are kind of in conflict. If you're a state like Wyoming where you produce so much fossil fuel in particular coal that's threatened by any sort of climate change policy we might put in place to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Wyoming's governor Matt Mead professes skepticism on climate science but not on the markets which are moving away from dirtier burning fuels like coal. That's why he's pushing for a more diversified economy. At the end of the day the debate in Wyoming is really about jobs. Bill Miller says that when people learn about the tax revenues and jobs their transmission line and wind farm will bring to Wyoming they like that. These are good high paying jobs. And when we finish this project the permanent jobs are going to be roughly 150 people well paid fully benefitted jobs that are really a boon to those communities says Miller. Wind projects in Wyoming won't come anywhere close to creating enough work to replace the coal industry. Still the jobs are an important part of the state's broader diversification strategy. Roughly 60 percent of our youth between the ages of 18 and 24 will not be here 10 years from now and that's a trend we would like to see disappear says Rieman. Whether new opportunities come from digging up coal or harnessing the wind for job seekers in Wyoming that detail may be of secondary importance. This article originally appeared at PRI's The World.	True	True	False	False	False
There are growing fears that the unchecked use of antibiotics in both medicine and agriculture will have adverse effects on the environment and on human health AFP PhotoLOIC VENANCE Paris AFP Residues from billions of doses of antibiotics painkillers and antidepressants pose a significant risk to freshwater ecosystems and the global food chain a new analysis said Thursday. There are growing fears that the unchecked use of antibiotics in both medicine and agriculture will have adverse effects on the environment and on human health. When animals and humans ingest medicines up to 90 percent of active ingredients are excreted back into the environment. Many medicines are simply discarded in the United States alone an estimated one third of the four billion drugs prescribed each year ends up as waste. The Organisation for Economic Co operation and Development OECD compared data on concentrations of pharmaceutical residue in water samples worldwide as well as prescribing trends and water purification regulations in various countries. One study cited in its report estimates that 10 percent of all pharmaceuticals are potentially harmful to the environment including hormones painkillers and antidepressants. The OECD said that antibiotic use for livestock is predicted to rocket by more than two thirds in the next decade stoking concerns over antibiotic resistance. Human prescriptions are also set to drastically increase according to the report. We're seeing constant engineering of new pharmaceuticals and seeing clinical practices evolve to include recommendations of earlier treatment and higher doses said the lead report author Hannah Leckie. Another study cited said extremely high concentrations of pharmaceutical products had already been detected in water ways in China India Israel South Korea and the United States. In Britain alone ethinyloestradiol diclofenac ibuprofen propranolol and antibiotics are now present in the run off of 890 wastewater treatment plants at high enough levels to cause adverse environmental effects according to another study. The residues of pharmaceuticals have been detected in surface and ground water across the world said Leckie. However there's still a lot we don't know about their occurence and know even less about the concentrations we find. More than 700000 people already die each year from drug resistant infections. As the global population grows and ages and prescribing rates continue to climb that figure is set to hit 10 million annually by 2050 higher than the number of people dying from cancer. Unless adequate measures are taken to manage the risks pharmaceutical residues will increasingly be released into the environment as ageing populations advances in healthcare and intensification of meat and fish production spur the demand for pharmaceuticals worldwide the report said. And the situation is set to get even more acute as climate change increases the spread and frequency of infectious diseases such as malaria and dengue. Leckie said there was something of a vicious circle when it came to medical prescriptions and climate related disease. Human activity such as population growth and transport combined with climate change increases antibacterial resistance... and therefore the need for more pharmaceuticals.	True	False	False	True	True
Following the pile up of months and months of scandals EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt is finally out which means a significantly less notorious successor is now in. Introduced to the world via a tweet from President Donald Trump EPA Deputy Administrator Andrew Wheeler is set to take over the position in an acting capacity. Wheeler who was confirmed for the EPA deputy role in April appears to be cut from much of the same cloth as his former boss when it comes to rolling back environmental regulations. Here are three key facts to know about the person who will soon be overseeing the Environmental Protection Agency. Wheeler age 55 is a former lobbyist who represented Murray Energy a massive mining company as one of his chief clients. Murray Energy was among the companies Wheeler listed on his financial disclosures while he was being considered for the deputy administrator position. Others included Xcel Energy and General Mills. Murray Energy CEO Robert Murray is also a well known Trump adviser and supporter who Wheeler worked with closely. As a New York Times story lays out Murray was the architect of a so called environmental regulations wish list which detailed a list of policies aimed at reinvigorating the coal industry like curbing restrictions on greenhouse gases and slashing staff at the EPA. Wheeler and Murray were photographed at a March 2017 meeting with Energy Secretary Rick Perry where many of these policies were purportedly discussed. All this suggests that Wheeler wont be particularly aggressive toward the coal industry while in office. Andrew Wheelers coal credentials are without equal Sen. Edward Markey has said according to CBS News. He is without question a member of the coal industrys Hall of Fame. Wheeler was also a longtime staffer for Sen. Jim Inhofe serving as chief counsel for the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee while the lawmaker was chair according to Inside Climate News. All told Wheeler spent 14 years working with Inhofe on the Hill. Inhofe was among Pruitts biggest fans although the barrage of scandals ultimately began to dim his enthusiasm. Inhofe is known for denying that climate change is affected by human activity once throwing a snowball onto the Senate floor to counter arguments about climate change and prove that it was very very cold outside. His former staffers have become nicknamed by some as the Inhofe mafia. During Wheelers testimony in a congressional hearing last fall he dodged a question about climate change I believe that man has an impact on the climate but its not completely understood what that impact is he said according to Inside Climate News. As the New York Times points out however there is one crucial way that Wheeler differs from his departing boss. Pruitt was Oklahomas attorney general before being named to Trumps Cabinet and an outsider who recklessly took advantage of the privileges he obtained. Wheeler is seen as a seasoned political operative who knows how to carefully traverse the system. He was also at the EPA as a special assistant in the agencys Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics for four years before he worked for Inhofe. Pruitts goals as EPA administrator have centered on crafting or destroying policy in order to establish a friendlier regime for the fossil fuel industry. His efforts have included revising emissions standards for cars and trucks increasing his control over the implementation of the Clean Water Act and weakening standards on hazardous chemicals. It appears that Wheeler is on track to do more of the same and his insider instincts and methodical nature could mean even more effective rollbacks. A number of Pruitt policies are thought to be shoddily constructed and have faced significant legal challenges. As Trump said himself I have no doubt that Andy will continue on with our great and lasting EPA agenda.	False	False	False	True	True
WASHINGTON A mammoth lands bill that would protect more than 2 million acres and permanently reauthorize a key land and water conservation program heads to President Donald Trump following the House's overwhelming approval Tuesday. The 363 62 vote to pass theNatural Resources Management Act came two weeks after the Senate approved the bill 92 8. Years in the crafting the measurecombines more than 100 separate bills that collectively would designate1340000 acres of new wilderness 367 miles of new scenic rivers and 2600 miles of new national trails. It also would createfour national monuments including the home of slain civil rights icon Medgar Eversin Mississippiand expandthree national parks including Joshua Tree in California. In addition the legislation would require the U.S. Forest Service and the Department of the Interior to begin providing GPS locations for crews on wildfires and to begin using drones to scout and map wildfires in real time. The bill won easy passage in the House in part because it included dozens of individual member's parochial priorities stretching across all 50 states. But it also enjoyed larger buy in. Democratsgot behind the bill because it would expand environmental protections. Republicans supported it because it would expand access to public lands for recreational and hunting purposes. Related Green New Deal What is it and what does it mean for climate change? Related Crumbling national parks Congress looks to hike funds for repairs after years of neglect The very basis of all of the bills that are in here is to put people above government Utah Rep. Rob Bishop the top Republican on the House Natural Resources Committee said on the House floor before the vote. If indeed we're going to have public lands there should be access to those lands. The measure also permanently reauthorizes the Land and Water Conservation Fund which uses federal royalties from oil and gas drilling to preserve public lands. It had expired in September. Although the bill does not guarantee that the royalties about 900 million a year flow into the program environmental groups consider making the LWCF permanent an enormous victory. Rep. Debbie Dingell D Mich praised the program for its universal benefits saying the conservation fund has steered 3.9 billion to some 40000 projects in every county across this country since it began in the 1960s. LWCF has protected some of our most treasured natural resources while creating jobs supporting local economies and providing countless opportunitiesfor recreation she said on the House floor.	True	False	False	True	False
U.S. Formally Begins To Leave The Paris Climate Agreement The Trump administration has formally notified the United Nations that the U.S. is withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement. The withdrawal will be complete this time next year after a one year waiting period has elapsed. We will continue to work with our global partners to enhance resilience to the impacts of climate change and prepare for and respond to natural disasters Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a statement Monday. Nearly 200 countries signed on to the agreement in 2015 and made national pledges to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Each country set its own goals and many wealthy countries including the U.S. also agreed to help poorer countries pay for the costs associated with climate change. The U.S. is now the only country to pull out of the pact. The United States is not cooperating with the rest of the world on dealing with climate change says Andrew Light a former climate official in the State Department who helped develop the Paris Agreement. The agreement was designed to be easier to join than to leave. The U.S. even helped spearhead language that would hold countries accountable for the promises they made in part to help guard against regime changes and other global political turmoil. Indeed in the years since the pact was created many key international players including Brazil China Japan and India have experienced economic or political upheaval but none has withdrawn from the Paris Agreement as a result. President Trump originally announced his intention to withdraw from the deal in the summer of 2017 shortly after he took office. At the time he said As of today the United States will cease all implementation of the agreement including federal policies meant to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as well as U.S. contributions to the international climate fund for poorer nations. These agreements are just only as good as the commitments from each country Light says. The U.S. had pledged to reduce national greenhouse gas emissions by about a quarter by 2025 compared with 2005 levels. The country is not on track to achieve that goal. In the intervening years the Trump administration has systematically attempted to roll back federal limits on carbon emissions including rules about how much pollution can be emitted by power plants cars and trucks. The reality is to really deliver on our climate goals we do need strong federal action says Rachel Cleetus of the Union of Concerned Scientists. The unfortunate reality is U.S. carbon emissions actually rose last year. This isn't the first time the U.S. has reneged on an international climate agreement. The U.S. failed to ratify the 1997 Kyoto Protocol despite being instrumental in its creation. In this case the U.S. became a signatory to the agreement but almost immediately signaled that it didn't intend to pursue its responsibilities. In both cases the U.S. was instrumental in developing the international strategy. That's one of the ironies of all this Light says. When the Paris Agreement was being negotiated the U.S. delegation pushed for more transparency and accountability to make sure the countries that signed on would actually do what they promised. Even though we're the ones who have been pointing to these potential scenarios for problems with other countries we seem to be the biggest problem Light says. If we were a tiny country with small emissions it wouldn't matter so much he says. But we're not. We're a big country with a lot of power and a lot of influence around the world. And so for us to be the exception on this issue is holding the world back. A formal withdrawal is reversible however if a future administration chooses to rejoin the Paris Agreement and pick up where the U.S. left off with its emissions reduction promises.	True	False	False	True	True
The Environmental Protection Agency is poised to dismantle the federal clean water rule which protects waterways that provide drinking water for about a third of the US population. The EPA with the US army has proposed scrapping the rule in order to conduct a substantive re evaluation of which rivers streams wetlands and other bodies of water should be protected by the federal government. We are taking significant action to return power to the states and provide regulatory certainty to our nations farmers and businesses said Scott Pruitt administrator of the EPA. Pruitt said the EPA would swiftly redefine clean water regulations in a thoughtful transparent and collaborative way with other agencies and the public. Green groups however said the move pandered to fossil fuel and farming interests and was part of an agenda to weaken clean water protections. Once again the Trump administration has agreed to do the bidding of the worst polluters in our country and once again its putting the health of American families and communities at risk said Michael Brune executive director of Sierra Club. We will fight this and every other attempt by polluters and the Trump administration to destroy our water resources. The planned rollback follows an executive order penned by Donald Trump in February which called for a review of the regulation also known as the waters of the United States rule that was introduced by the Obama administration in 2015. The rule was meant to end years of confusion over which waterways were federally protected from pollution with the clean water rule simply designating navigable waters for safeguards. The Obama administration widened this definition to include the drinking water of about 117 million Americans. But while the rule was applauded by environmentalists for improving drinking water protections and aiding wildlife that relies on wetlands it was attacked by some farmers and golf course operators who claimed it hindered their ability to manage their land. Trump has called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation and a massive power grab. Signing his order the president said thousands of jobs were at risk because the EPA decided that navigable waters can mean nearly every puddle or every ditch on a farmers land or anyplace else that they decide. While puddles arent mentioned in the rule the EPA does have greater latitude to regulate under it. However there is no evidence that the regulation could result in the loss of thousands of jobs. The National Mining Association another opponent of the rule and representative of an industry relentlessly backed by Trump welcomed its impending demise. This sets in motion a welcome correction to a deeply problematic regulation that ignored the careful balance that Congress struck between federal and state water regulation and constitutional limits on federal authority said Hal Quinn NMA president and chief executive. The clean water rule reversal which will now go through a period of public comment ahead of a final decision is the latest in a string of regulations to be paused or scrapped by the Trump administration. In recent months the EPA has wound back rules curbing vehicle emissions toxic waste from power plants and methane leaks from oil and gas drilling operations.	True	True	False	False	True
The word choices by administration officials and the extent to which they're going to avoid referencing global warming altogether are notable in the aftermath of recent severe hurricanes and in the face of questions about what could have caused them. In the wake of Hurricane Irma both Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of hurricanes. Instead they both said the focus should be on resiliency. Regardless of what causes disasters it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences Long told CNN. The only way we become resilient as a nation is we have to create that true culture of preparedness among our citizenry which we do not have and then we also have to look how we move forward when it comes to infrastructure protection. Duke echoed Long's thoughts on the need for resilience. We live in a changing world and as the FEMA administrator said we always have to look at not just the response but the preparedness and the resilience Duke said. And I think it's important that as we come together as a country we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response that we are adapting properly. Trump dismisses climate change question by contradicting himself on hurricanes Other departments are also adopting the language replacement in some cases making unannounced changes and replacements to their websites and names of programs. In February shortly after President Donald Trump took office the Department of Transportation and Federal Highway Administration changed language across its website relating to the environmental effects of transportation. The changes swapped words like adaptation with resilience and also renamed the Sustainable Transport and Climate Change Team to The Sustainable Transportation and Resilience Team according to a Environmental Data and Governance Initiative Website Tracking report That same month the Environmental Protection Agency removed all mention of climate change from its water utilities programs. The Climate Ready Water Utilities program was renamed to Creating Resilient Water Utilities. Other references to climate change were also scrubbed from the website Inside Climate News first reported. Over at the USDA an internal memo obtained by CNN that was shared in the first days of the administration to staffers gave specific guidance to ditch the term climate change adaptation and instead opt for resilience to weather extremes. The terms resilience and resiliency rose to popularity in the US government during former President Barack Obama's administration used specifically to denote preparing something to ward off the future effects of climate change. For example following Superstorm Sandy the Department of Housing and Urban Development established a first of its kind competition called the National Disaster Resilience Competition. The aim of the competition was to award grants to communities hit by natural disasters to fund rebuilding them to better weather future events worsened by climate change. The idea is when dollars are spent to rebuild you don't just want to rebuild the same old way you want to rebuild in a way that is smarter and makes it less likely that they will be effected the same way in the future storms that's resiliency former HUD Secretary Julian Castro who awarded the grant at the time told CNN. There's no question that climate change is at least a contributing factor to some of the intensity of these natural disasters. ... The administration ought to take that into consideration and not try to decouple those two Castro said. The verbal judo they are trying to do doesn't serve local communities at all. But administration officials counter that resiliency can have a dual meaning even one that means essentially the same thing but without the overt climate change undertones. Resilience came into our nomenclature in our last administration but that doesn't mean that it's a verboten word any longer said Brian Sullivan a HUD spokesman. The last administration made that very direct connection between the use of that word and words like sustainability with climate change and while there may be a reluctance to do that now I don't think that means folks are any less committed to making sure the next storm is less costly Sullivan said. While Sullivan acknowledged that there's been an intentional shift of language at the department especially as the topic of climate change continues to be discussed or avoided hand in hand with storm preparedness he argues that at the end of the day the administration has the same goals for rebuilding communities. I don't know if there's an operating definition of what resilience means he said. Regardless of why you're doing it what you're doing would be the same whatever motivates you. Whether you believe in climate change or you don't you are embarking on some future activity. We could tie this to climate change or we could tie it to saving taxpayer money.	True	False	True	True	False
Its been repeated throughout the media Future global warming could wipe out one tenth of the U.S. economy by 2100. Its a top line finding of a major government climate report but its based on a study funded by groups affiliated with two major Democratic donors. The oft repeated claim also stemmed from a global warming projection thats come under increased scrutiny from experts including one who called it outlandish. The federal government released the second volume of the National Climate Assessment NCA Friday. The federal report issued dire warnings including from ice sheet disintegration on accelerated sea level rise leading to widespread effects on coastal development lasting thousands of years. The report also claims that global greenhouse gas emissions is expected to cause substantial net damage to the U.S. economy throughout this century including a 10 percent hit to gross domestic product GDP in one extreme scenario. RELATED Trump Touts Oil Prices Getting Lower As Millions Hit The Road For Thanksgiving However NCAs dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes from a 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors. The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund. That 2017 study published in the journal Science was funded in part by Bloomberg Philanthropies and Next Generation which were founded by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and San Francisco billionaire Tom Steyer respectively. University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. pointed out problems with the study on Twitter Saturday including the fact it was funded by groups connected with Bloomberg and Steyer. Bloomberg and Steyer were the biggest donors to Democratic aligned political action groups in the 2016 election cycle according to the Center for Responsive Politics CRP. Bloomberg who founded Bloomberg Philanthropies handed nearly 60 million to liberal SuperPACs to help put Democratic candidates in office and defeat Republicans in the 2018 election cycle according to the CRP. Steyer who co founded Next Generation gave roughly 58.7 million to liberal SuperPACs according to CRP. Bloomberg and Steyer back the Paris climate accord and Obama era policies to phase out fossil fuels. The Bloomberg Steyer funded study found future temperature rise could cost roughly 1.2 of gross domestic product per additional one degree Celsius increase on average. At the most extreme high end that could add up to 10 percent of GDP by 2100. Pielke called the use of such an extreme scenario embarrassing because its based on a future thats 15 degrees Fahrenheit warmer in other words twice what the United Nations most extreme scenario projects. But even the United Nations worst case scenario called RCP8.5 is being called into question by experts. A study published in 2017 found RCP8.5 was exceptionally unlikely because it suffered from systematic errors in fossil production outlooks. Imagine if research funded by Exxon was sole basis for claims. Given weaknesses of the work its just foolish to lean on it so much Pielke tweeted. Major media outlets however did no such examination of the NCAs reliance on such an outlandish claim as Pielke called it. CNN reported the economy could lose hundreds of billions of dollars or in the worst case scenario more than 10 of its GDP by 2100. The news outlets headline warned future warming could also kill thousands. All told the report says climate change could slash up to a tenth of gross domestic product by 2100 more than double the losses of the Great Recession a decade ago The New York Times reported of the NCA. Andrew Light a distinguished senior fellow at the World Resources Institute and reviewer of the chapter highlighting the Bloomberg Steyer funded study did not respond to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for comment. Instead Light forwarded TheDCNFs request to the U.S. Global Change Research Program USGCRP which is responsible for producing the NCA. USGCRP has yet to respond to TheDCNFs request. The NCA was put together with input from 13 federal agencies and outside scientists. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	True	False	True	True
Joyce Farinato a pastor and artist who lost her Glen Ellen Calif. home in recent wildfires stands in the ruins Monday Oct. 23 2017 and shows a mask she found in the debris one of her few surviving possessions. Farinato said she wants to follow the environmental rules on cleaning burned sites but needs to know what they are. AP PhotoEllen Knickmeyer SANTA ROSA Calif. AP Government officials outlined plans Monday for what they say will be the largest fire clean up in California history aimed at removing hazardous substances and ash from 8400 homes and other structures burned in Northern California wildfires. With hundreds of anxious homeowners listening state emergency services official Eric Lamoureux set a target of early 2018 for completing the clean up and allowing owners to start rebuilding. California has declared a public health emergency in the fire area in part because of concern for hazardous substances ranging from freon in air conditioners to asbestos in older homes. The fires that began Oct. 8 have killed at least 42 people making them the deadliest series of wildfires in state history. The size and scope of this debris removal process will be one for the record books Sen. Mike McGuire a Democrat from the wine country town of Healdsburg told fire survivors at a Santa Rosa community forum. The meeting gave residents some of the first briefings on the clean up to come. Authorities have warned residents returning to the ruins of their homes to beware of possible hazardous residues in the ashes and required them to sign forms acknowledging the danger. Many survivors at Monday's forum and in fire zones where people are returning say they are confused about what authorities will allow them to do at their blackened properties before the massive waste removal. How do you get to get your mourning started if I can't stop and put hands on the scattering of possessions left asked resident Joyce Farinato who wore gardening gloves and a mask Monday as she walked through the chunks of concrete and bent metal that were all that was left of her home in rural Sonoma County. I'd like to know what's hazardous. What are we looking for? Farinato said. In Santa Rosa authorities with the Federal Emergency Management Administration and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers joined local and state officials answering other questions from homeowners. In two of the hardest hit areas Sonoma and Napa the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will be the agency that moves first removing any hazardous materials from the thousands of sites officials said Monday. State agencies would handle the same task in five other burned counties. The EPA effort would start this week said Lamoureux of California's Office of Emergency Services. Hundreds of teams led by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers are to move in next removing ash and rubble. In Sonoma County the scene of the most destruction and deaths county officials will draft environmental standards to be followed by any homeowners who opt to handle the clean up themselves at their own expense officials said. For property owners who let the government handle the clean up taxpayers will cover any of the costs of debris removal that insurance doesn't Lamoureux said. Authorities have yet to put a price tag on the process. Homeowners shouted questions on matters ranging from their liability in the clean up to the extent that contractors would be scraping bare building sites. Laney Wall who lost her home in the Sonoma County community of Fountaingrove asked why homeowners had to go through the expense trouble and wait of the clean up at all. What legally is the justification for declaring my home site a hazardous waste site requiring this onerous process? Wall asked. Officials pointed to the public health concerns ranging from safety of residents in the burned neighborhoods to concerns for hazardous waste entering waterways and the air. Officials promised more town meetings. Homeowners said that was a good idea. I just have more questions now Danny Thom another Fountaingrove resident said after the meeting.	False	True	True	False	False
CNN A new US government report delivers a dire warning about climate change and its devastating impacts saying the economy could lose hundreds of billions of dollars or in the worst case scenario more than 10 of its GDP by the end of the century. The federally mandated study was supposed to come out in December but was released by the Trump administration on Friday at a time when many Americans are on a long holiday weekend distracted by family and shopping. The global average temperature is much higher and is rising more rapidly than anything modern civilization has experienced and this warming trend can only be explained by human activities Easterling said. Coming from the US Global Change Research Program a team of 13 federal agencies the Fourth National Climate Assessment was put together with the help of 1000 people including 300 leading scientists roughly half from outside the government. Without significant reductions in greenhouse emissions the annual average global temperature could increase 9 degrees Fahrenheit 5 Celsius or more by the end of this century compared with preindustrial temperatures the report says. The costs of climate change could reach hundreds of billions of dollars annually according to the report. The Southeast alone will probably lose over a half a billion labor hours by 2100 due to extreme heat. Farmers will face extremely tough times. The quality and quantity of their crops will decline across the country due to higher temperatures drought and flooding. In parts of the Midwest farms will be able to produce less than 75 of the corn they produce today and the southern part of the region could lose more than 25 of its soybean yield. Heat stress could cause average dairy production to fall between 0.60 and 1.35 over the next 12 years having already cost the industry 1.2 billion from heat stress in 2010. Wildfire seasons already longer and more destructive than before could burn up to six times more forest area annually by 2050 in parts of the United States. Burned areas in Southwestern California alone could double by 2050. Dependable and safe water for the Hawaii the Caribbean and others are threatened by these rising temperatures. Along the US coasts public infrastructure and 1 trillion in national wealth held in real estate are threatened by rising sea levels flooding and storm surges. Energy systems will be taxed meaning more blackouts and power failures and the potential loss in some sectors could reach hundreds of billions of dollars per year by the end of the century the report said. The number of days over 100 degrees Fahrenheit will multiply Chicago where these days are rare could start to resemble Phoenix or Las Vegas with up to two months worth of these scorching hot days. Sea levels have already gone up 7 to 8 inches since 1900. Almost half that rise has been since 1993 a rate of rise greater than during any century in the past 2800 years. Some countries are already seeing land underwater. By midcentury it's likely that the Arctic will lose all sea ice in late summer and that could lead to more permafrost thaw according to the report. As the permafrost thaws more carbon dioxide and methane would be released amplifying human induced warming possibly significantly. What can be done The report was created to inform policy makers and makes no specific recommendations on how to remedy the problem. However it suggests that if the United States immediately reduced its fossil fuel use and greenhouse gas emissions it could save thousands of lives and generate billions of dollars in benefits for the country. Reactions to the new report have been strong across the scientific community. In Houston communities of color have endured back to back major weather events without the acknowledgment from Washington that climate change is the cause. We've known for years that it's true and it's important to our organizing and our local policy efforts that information like this is not only considered but believed and acted upon. Scientists who have been raising the alarm about the negative consequences of climate change for years welcomed the findings.	True	False	False	True	True
Back in October 2015 Barack Obamas EPA finalized a 460 page rule titled Carbon Pollution Emission Guidelines for Existing Stationary Sources Electric Utility Generating Units aka the Clean Power Plan. This was a part of Obamas pen and phone way of ruling the country. As an aside did you ever see anyone on the left bitch about Obama using the power of the presidency to make policy and weigh in on political and cultural issues the way some on the right bitch about Trump doing it? Did you ever stop to wonder what they know that the current belly achers dont? The purpose of this rule was breathtaking. Using the anthropogenic global warming scaremongering and specious public health predictions the Clean Power Plan essentially put the US coal industry out of business. Since that time the rule has been mired in court challenges and it produced the first instance in history where the Supreme Court presumed a rule was unreasonable before a lower court ruled on the issue The Supreme Court dealt a blow to President Obamas signature climate change initiative Tuesday by halting the administrations effort to reduce pollution from coal fired power plants while a legal battle rages on. The move by the courts five conservative members was a shock to environmentalists who had hoped the justices would deny as a federal appeals court did last month a petition filed by 29 mostly Republican led states and industry leaders. Now the Environmental Protection Agency must halt enforcement of the so called Clean Power Plan until the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit decides on the merits of the GOP industry lawsuit against it. Oral arguments are set for early June. Even if the plan is upheld at the lower court it could not be implemented until the Supreme Court has had the final word. That likely would push the battle into 2017 or beyond. In September 2016 then candidate Donald Trump gave an economic policy speech in which he specifically targeted the Clean Power Plan Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump said he would repeal four key Environmental Protection Agency regulations as president leading one environmental group to call his plans a dumpster fire. During an economic policy speech in New York Trump said he would eliminate the Clean Power Plan and the Waters of the United States rule. In a fact sheet released accompanying the speech Trumps campaign said he would scale back the latest regulations on ozone pollution and eliminate the EPAs Renewable Identification Number program which is part of the Renewable Fuel Standard program. Trump said the regulations harm U.S. businesses and getting rid of them would help kick start the economy. This Obama Clinton directive will shut down most if not all coal powered electricity plans in America Trump said of the Clean Power Plan. Theyre shutting down all over the country. Remember what Hillary Clinton said? She wants to shut down the miners just like she wants to shut down the steel mills and steel workers. In late March President Trump signed an executive order directing the EPA to review the Clean Power Plan Now it is reported that tomorrow the EPA will being the process of withdrawing the Clean Power Plan. What the EPA is doing is proposing a rule to rescind the existing rule and then it will undertake another administrative rule making process to ask for public input on what a new rule should contain and finally a new rule will be drafted. Im sure Scott Pruitt would prefer to scrap this whole thing unfortunately the US Supreme Court 2007 decision Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency says that EPA regulation of carbon dioxide is actually required by the Clean Air Act and so non regulation is legally off the table unless Congress acts that was a joke. The sum total of this is to take this issue out of the courts and then give the environmental nazis a new chew toy to play with for several years. In the meantime hopefully Congress will act again that was a joke to limit the reach of the Clean Air Act and the ability of activists to use that law to wreak havoc on our economy and communities.	False	False	False	True	True
In Europe World Leaders Try To Change Trump's Mind On Climate Change It was eight against one according to German Chancellor Angela Merkel. On one side leaders of Canada Japan France Germany Italy and the United Kingdom plus two EU representatives. On the other side President Trump. And up for debate the peril of climate change and the urgency of the U.S. commitment to the Paris accord to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Merkel said that everyone at the table at the G 7 summit in Taormina Italy was urging Trump to stick with the pact according to Reuters. After that conversation Trump economic adviser Gary Cohn said the president's views are evolving and that he feels much much more knowledgeable after the conversation with world leaders. He came here to learn. He came here to get smarter Cohn said. His views are evolving which is exactly as they should be. Any decision on climate change would ultimately be based on what's best for the United States Cohn said. The Paris accord created in 2015 after lengthy negotiations calls on 196 nations to ratchet back greenhouse gas emissions. The goal is to keep the rise in global temperatures no higher than 2 degrees Celsius as compared with pre industrial levels. As NPR reported at the time the global average temperature has already increased about 1 degree Celsius. The deal includes voluntary pledges to reduce emissions. It also calls for developed countries to provide billions of dollars to help the developing world switch from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources. The accord was historic in its scope and its ambition even though its reliance on voluntary pledges made it less robust than some advocates had hoped. On the campaign trail Trump said he would cancel the Paris deal. He has previously suggested that climate change is a hoax and appointed as the head of the EPA a man who said he does not believe human activity is a primary contributor to global warming. Climate change and its impacts have been observed by scientists working in multiple fields and the overwhelming scientific consensus is that human activity is the primary cause. But since taking office Trump has not moved to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris agreement. He has rolled back a number of Obama era climate change measures which will hamper U.S. efforts to fulfill its Paris pledges. But he hasn't retracted the pledges themselves. Just this week members of his administration indicated that the White House had not yet decided what to do on the issue. Before the conversation between Trump and the other G 7 leaders Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni noted that all the other countries had confirmed total agreement to the pact while the U.S. commitment was an open question. We are sure that after an internal reflection the United States will also want to commit to it Gentiloni said according to the Associated Press. But Gentolini and other world leaders weren't just waiting for internal reflection. They added some external pressure too. French President Emmanuel Macron reportedly discussed climate change with Trump at length on Thursday at a meeting in Brussels. Leaders of the Roman Catholic Church broached the topic when Trump visited the Vatican. And then there was the chat between the G 7 leaders. Merkel called the conversation controversial. Cohn said it was robust. Still to be determined whether it was persuasive or consequential.	True	False	False	True	True
Despite longstanding opposition to renewable energy on the part of President Trump who gave a rambling nearly incoherent disquisition on windmills last weekend the wind power industry in the United States continued to grow in 2019. The country set records for newly installed capacity of wind power in both the second and third quarters of 2019 according to a report by the American Wind Energy Association reaching a total of 100 gigawatts roughly on a par with nuclear plants although in terms of actual power generated as distinguished from theoretical capacity wind is still a fraction of nuclear and fossil fuels. Wind now supplies clean and efficient power to the equivalent of 32 million American homes sustains 500 U.S. factories and delivers more than 1 billion a year in new revenue to rural communities and states Tom Kernan CEO of AWEA said in a statement. At a time when global carbon emissions that cause climate change continue to rise wind power now accounts for 6.5 percent of the energy America produces. Once the wind turbines are constructed the energy they produce is carbon neutral and renewable indefinitely. Yet Trump who believes that climate change is a hoax is no fan of windmills as he once again made clear last weekend in a speech in Florida. Well have an economy based on wind. I never understood wind. You know I know windmills very much. Ive studied it better than anybody. I know its very expensive. Theyre made in China and Germany mostly very few made here almost none. But theyre manufactured tremendous if youre into this tremendous fumes Trump asserted. Gases are spewing into the atmosphere. You know we have a world right? So the world is tiny compared to the universe. So tremendous tremendous amount of fumes and everything. You talk about the carbon footprint fumes are spewing into the air. Right? Spewing. Whether its in China Germany its going into the air. Its our air their air everything right? So they make these things and then they put them up. Trump who filed an unsuccessful lawsuit against the government of Scotland to block the construction of offshore wind turbines he said would mar the views from one of his golf resorts also complained in his Florida speech that wind turbines killed birds. Go under a windmill someday you'll see more birds than you've ever seen ever in your life Trump said. While it is true that an estimated 234000 birds die each year in collisions with wind turbines according to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service many more are killed by flying into buildings or by domestic cats. In 2018 the Trump administration eliminated criminal penalties for unintentional migratory bird deaths resulting from industrial or agricultural activity the New York Times reported. Despite the rapid growth in the construction of wind power facilities across the U.S. the Interior Department announced in August that it was withholding approval for a wind project off the coast of Massachusetts similar to the one Trump opposed in Scotland. Interior Department spokesman Nicholas Goodwin said in a statement that the government needed to make sure the project was safe and environmentally responsible. In April Trump without citing any evidence told a Republican audience that wind turbines were dangerous to human health. They say the noise causes cancer Trump said. That claim like all the others Trump has made about wind power was quickly refuted. The American Cancer Society is unaware of any credible evidence linking the noise from windmills to cancer a spokesman for the group told the Times in an email. None Behind Pelosis risky strategy to withhold impeachment from Senate None What happens to the articles of impeachment now? None Trump impeachment FAQ What you need to know	True	False	False	True	True
If the world wants to limit climate change water scarcity and pollution then we all need to embrace flexitarian diets say scientists. This means eating mainly plant based foods and is one of three key steps towards a sustainable future for all in 2050 they say. Food waste will need to be halved and farming practices will also have to improve according to the study. Without action the impacts of the food system could increase by up to 90. Fast on the heels of the landmark report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC comes this new study on how food production and consumption impact major threats to the planet. The authors say that the food system has a number of significant environmental impacts including being a major driver of climate change depleting freshwater and pollution through excessive use of nitrogen and phosphorous. The study says that thanks to the population and income growth expected between 2010 and 2050 these impacts could grow between 50 90. This could push our world beyond its planetary boundaries which the authors say represent a safe operating space for humanity on a stable Earth system. However the study finds that no single solution will avert the dangers so a combined approach is needed. So when it comes to climate change the authors looked at what they called a flexitarian diet. We can eat a range of healthy diets but what they all have in common according to the latest scientific evidence is that they are all relatively plant based said lead author Dr Marco Springmann from the University of Oxford. You can go from a diet that has small amounts of animal products some might call it a Mediterranean based diet we call it a flexitarian diet over to a pescatarian vegetarian or vegan diet we tried to stay with the most conservative one of these which in our view is the flexitarian one but even this has only one serving of red meat per week. If the world moved to this type of diet the study found that greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture would be reduced by more than half. But as well as altering diets the research says that farming practices need to change significantly. This involves boosting yields from existing cropland improving water management and restricting and recycling fertiliser use. We looked at improving agricultural yields in particular of more health sensitive crops like fruit vegetables and legumes said Dr Springmann. In the past there has been lots of invest in the stable grains like maize and corn but now we really need to move it to the crops we need more of. We also looked at increasing the efficiency of water use and we looked at better monitoring and recycling of fertiliser lots of it is lost and it runs off into rivers and causes dead zones in the oceans. In addition the study found that halving the amount of food lost to waste would reduce the environmental impacts of agriculture by 16. Tackling food loss and waste will require measures across the entire food chain from storage and transport over food packaging and labelling to changes in legislation and business behaviour that promote zero waste supply chains said Fabrice de Clerck director of science at EAT who funded the study. The key element is that these three solutions must be implemented together. Feeding a world population of 10 billion people is possible yet only if we change the way we eat and the way we produce food said Johan Rockstrm director designate of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research who is one of the authors of the study. All measures combined can result in keeping healthy both planet and people. The study has been published in the journal Nature.	True	False	False	True	False
The White House has declined to say whether Donald Trump believes human activity contributes to climate change as the president pulled America out of the Paris agreement. Administration officials were also unable to offer revised US carbon emission targets or say what changes to the global landmark accord would persuade Trump to re enter it. But they did offer assurance that America will abide by the lengthy exit process outlined in the deal waiting three and a half years to formally withdraw. Trump announced on Thursday the US would join Nicaragua and Syria as the only countries to shun the Paris agreement characterising it as a reassertion of Americas sovereignty and saying he was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh not Paris. There was a chorus of condemnation from world leaders former president Barack Obama and Trumps defeated election opponent Hillary Clinton who branded it a historic mistake. Shortly after Trump spoke in the Rose Garden at the White House to applause from supporters two senior administration officials briefed reporters in the west wing. The officials who did not wish to be named did nothing to alter perceptions of the US president as a climate change denier when asked whether he believed human activity was a contributory factor. One official replied So I think the fact that the president in his speech today said he wants to come back and renegotiate a better deal for the United States and for the world I think speaks for itself. The journalist shot back So is that a yes? Its a yes or no question. The official said Again I think that speaks for itself. The journalist pressed It doesnt speak for itself so is that a yes? Does he believe human activity contributes to climate change? The official said I have not talked to the president about his personal views on whether I was not with the president on his trip. I did not talk to the president about his personal views on what is contributing to climate change. The official insisted his own views were irrelevant while a White House staff member interjected Can we stay on topic please? The official echoed Can we stay on topic please? implying that Trumps views on the causes of climate change were irrelevant to the Paris decision. On 27 March the same official proved evasive on Trumps views when questioned by the Guardian. This week Sean Spicer the White House press secretary also said he had not asked the presidents opinion on the matter. Scott Pruitt the head of the Environmental Protection Agency has said he would not agree that carbon from human activity is the primary cause of global warming while in 2014 Trump referred to it as a hoax. On Thursday in a speech that kept a campaign pledge and echoed the fiery America first nationalism of his inaugural address Trump said As of today the United States will cease all implementation of the non binding Paris accord. During Obamas tenure the US had agreed under the accord to reduce emissions by more than a quarter below 2005 levels by 2025. The administration officials declined to specify new targets or give even a rough estimate of Americas intended nationally determined contribution to limiting greenhouse gas emissions. But they pointed to Americas existing record. I think leading the world is pretty good right? one said. I think that speaks for itself. The Paris accord came into effect on 4 November 2016. It makes provision for parties to withdraw but notice can be given only three years after it kicks in. Withdrawal would take effect a year after that meaning November 2020 a date that coincides with the next US presidential election raising the prospect that the issue remains alive during the campaign. First of all the whole withdrawal process will be consistent with the Paris agreement an official said. So the Paris agreement has to be in force for three years before you can actually submit a notice formally for withdrawal which takes at least a year. During this period the United States will not acknowledge or do anything to implement the current pledge put down by President Obama. Now whats the negotiating process? I think thats going to be determined by the president as we move forward. The leaders of France Germany and Italy joined to express regret at Trumps decision and insisted the agreement cannot be renegotiated. One of the administration officials responded If you look at the Europeans if you look at other major economies or allies or partners they have a strong interest in finding common ground with the United States and again we dont want to get out ahead of ourselves here on what may be discussed or not. There are a lot of different issues related to the international climate agenda that may not necessarily fall into the Paris bucket per se. He added The president is very sincere when he says he wants a better deal he wants to negotiate potentially bringing us back in Paris depending on what that looks like ... I think its a little bit more nuanced than stay in or not. Officials at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology MIT challenged a set of talking points issued to support Trumps decision as misleading. A statement from MIT said The relevant MIT researchers believe that the Paris agreement is an unprecedented and vital effort by nearly 200 countries to respond to the urgent threat of global climate change.	True	True	False	True	False
In a new study economist and environmental analyst Nicholas Loris explained that climate change simply isnt responsible for Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. Bottom line Loriss analysis stated that man made warming was not responsible forHarvey and Irma. Man made warming did not cause Harvey and Irma Loris wrote. As carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions have increased there have been no trends in global tropical cycle landfalls. Loris said that the average number of hurricanes per decade reaching landfall in the U.S. has fallen over the past 160 years. He added that the study is based on concrete mainstream science and cited reports from The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and NOAA to corroborate hisanalysis. Loris also disputedassertions that global warming supercharged these hurricanes which made them deadlier citing work by University of Washington climatologist Cliff Mass and former director of the National Hurricane Center Bill Read both of whom rejected this claim after conducting research into the phenomenon. With the eastern seaboard still in the thick of hurricane season as well asthe most recent devastation caused by Category 5 Hurricane Maria which was said to cripple Dominica with widespread devastation en route to Puerto Rico and possibly the States its important to maintainlevelheaded perspective and communication on natural disasters while speakingtruth amidstapprehension. In a hyper political environment pro climate change and anti climate change theory rhetoric serves only to distract from the real issue at hand the necessity of serving people impacted by natural disasters and the implementation ofstandardized response to these crises. While much of the media and government is ensconced in creating division among political parties and ideologies its more important to avoid playing into alarmist rhetoric whichonly serves to encourage people throughanxiety and panic. Instead of focusing on the apprehensionand divisiveness surrounding the causes of natural disasters its more important than ever that we maintain our humanity and come together tohelp one another.	True	True	False	False	True
Greta Thunberg tried really hard to keep her zero emissions promise but it has collapsed like all hypocritical left wing plans because it was just too difficult. From the Hill Greta Thunbergs plan for carbon free travel was contradicted when her sailboat captain flew across the Atlantic Ocean to pick her up. Thunberg 16 has been on a tour of North America to raise awareness for climate change. As part of her pledge to cut back carbon dioxide emissions to save the planet Thunberg vowed not to travel by air to limit her carbon footprint while she tours. The plan for zero emissions travel was subverted when Thunbergs yacht captain Nikki Henderson 26 flew to the United States from England burning roughly two or three tons of carbon CO2 in the process. Thunberg and her father who has traveled North America throughout his daughters activist tour could have flown aboard the same flight and burned just as much CO2. Ironically she failed because of left wing communist protesters in Chile Henderson was forced to make the flight last second because protests in Chile caused the U.N.s Cop25 climate summit to be moved to Madrid Spain. Thunberg was set to speak at the conference but needed to leave the U.S. sooner than expected. I mean you really think the entire world is going to come to a screeching halt for carbon emissions when you cant even organize a publicity stunt with your own standards? No wonder celebs opt to be complete and utter hypocrites instead of actually trying to get carbon neutral. And we all kinda see what is happening here if they cant do it now then why would we believe that they would be carbon free after they force all of us to live in backwards slums?	False	True	False	True	False
The Trump administration pointed to key offshore drilling safety regulations adopted in the wake of the catastrophic 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill in its sweeping proposal to open up nearly all U.S.waters to oil and gas development only to turn around in the months since and work toroll back those very safeguards. The controversial drilling plan released in January as part of President Donald Trumps energy dominance agenda would make available for oil and gas leasing roughly 90 percent of the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf including large swaths of the Arctic Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. The Interior Department led by Secretary Ryan Zinke noted in the lengthy proposal that while offshore oil and gas production will never be totally risk free the agency has made and is continuing to make substantial reforms to improve the safety and reduce the possible adverse environmental impacts of those activities. Elizabeth Johnson Klein the Interior Departments associate deputy secretary under Obama said the language first appeared in a draft of the current program released in January 2015. She said it references the Well Control Rule and the Production Safety Systems Rule two regulations that were under development back in early 2015 and are now on Trumps chopping block. The language also points to broader reform efforts that occurred after the Gulf spill including thedivision of the Minerals Management Service the scandal plagued agency faced with the conflicting tasks of issuing leases and policing offshore drilling operations into three new agencies. Days before the Trump administration unveiled its plans for a massive expansion of offshore drilling it moved to weaken the Production Safety Systems Rule a set of regulations pertaining to maintenance of offshore platforms. At the time the Interior Departments Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement one of the agencies born out of the reorganization of the Minerals Management Service estimated that the move would save companies some 288 million over 10 years. The changes finalized last month and slated to take effect on Dec. 27 loosen notification and certification rules for fossil fuel companies and toss out a requirement that offshore equipment be designed to withstand the most extreme weather and pressure conditions. In May the Trump administration took aim at the Well Control Rule a safety monitoring regulation meant to prevent the kind of incident that killed 11 workers and resulted in some 200 million gallons of crude oil leaking into the Gulf of Mexico. Finalized in 2016 six years after the Deepwater Horizon disaster the rule requires additional inspection and maintenance of blowout preventers a device designed to automatically seal a well and stop an uncontrolled release of oil and gas. The Interior Departmentsproposed overhaulwould loosen the inspection and oversight requirements for this equipment. Like the rollback of the Production Safety Systems Rule this effort is all about helping industry. In fact many of the proposed changes to the Well Control Rule were requested by oil companies as Eric Lipton of The New York Times reported in March. In comments submitted to the agency in August 10 state attorneys general argued that weakening the rule at the same time as the Trump administration is looking to radically expand offshore drilling is analogous to taping over the mirrors and unbuckling ones seat belt just before getting on the highway. Donald Boesch a professor of marine science at the University of Maryland who served on the bipartisan commission that investigated the causes of the Deepwater Horizon blowout said easing the safety rules is both premature and ill considered. He also expressed concern about merging the two agencies but said the administration has in effect already done that by putting the safety bureau in the hands of Angelle a big proponent of offshore fossil fuel development. In April 2017 Trump signed an executive order aimed at opening up protected areas of the Arctic and Atlantic oceans to oil and gas leasing. It instructed the Interior Department to review the current five year program and write new rules for offshore oil and gas drilling under the guise of an America First Offshore Energy Strategy. If approved the leasing plan would go into effect from 2019 to 2024 and replace the current program which is set to run through 2022 and was approved following an extensive multiyear review. The offshore drilling announcement drew immediate outrage from both Democrats and Republicans who expressed concern about possible environmental damage and negative effects on tourism. Days after the proposals release Zinke traveled to Florida and announced that on the recommendation of Gov. Rick Scott a staunch Trump supporter he was removing the states coastal waters from consideration. Zinke walked backFloridas exemption after other states demanded that they receive the same pass. He has since hinted to officials from at least six states that the waters off their coasts will not be included in the final plan Reuters reported this week.	True	False	False	True	False
If WeWork employees want a burger while on business the money is coming out of their own pockets. The global workplace startup told employees this week that the company will ban employees from expensing meals that contain red meat pork or poultryBloomberg reported. The company won't provide meat for events at its 400 locations eitherpart of an effort to reduceits environmental footprint. New research indicates that avoiding meat is one of the biggest things an individual can do to reduce their personal environmental impact even more than switching to a hybrid carWeWork co founder MiguelMcKelvey said in an email to staffers. The no meat policy will also affect self serve food kiosks at many of WeWork's 400 locations worldwide according to Bloomberg. Employees wanting medical or religious exceptions can hash those out witha company policy team. More As co working grows up niche spaces take center stage WeWork boasts 6000 employees worldwide according to Bloomberg. The companyestimates its no meat policy will save15507103 animals by 2023 according to Business Insider along with16.6 billion gallons of water and445.1 million pounds of carbon dioxide theheat trapping gas that alters Earth's climate. WeWork confirmed the policy change to both news outlets. WeWork is perhaps the most well known company to emerge offering co working spaces to freelancers small businesses and even employees of large companies such as Microsoft. The Motley Fool named it one of the top five most valuable startups in America.	True	True	False	True	True
Leading climate scientists have warned that geoengineering research could be hijacked by climate change deniers as an excuse not to reduce CO2 emissions citing the US administration under Donald Trump as a major threat to their work. David Keith a solar geoengineering GE expert at Harvard University has said there is a real danger that his work could be exploited by those who oppose action on emissions at the same time as he defended himself and colleagues from the claims GE strengthens the argument for abandoning the targets set by the Paris climate agreement. One of the main concerns I and everyone involved in this have is that Trump might tweet geoengineering solves everything we dont have to bother about emissions. That would break the slow moving agreement among many environmental groups that sound research in this field makes sense Keith said on the sidelines of the Climate Engineering Conference CEC in Berlin. Indeed utterances from people in or close to the Trump administration most notably GE proponent secretary of state Rex Tillerson who has referred to climate change as just an engineering problem make it clear they either tacitly or directly support the idea of climate engineering. Earlier this year Keith a professor of applied physics at Harvard announced plans to conduct an outdoor trial into stratospheric aerosol injection involving launching a high altitude balloon that will spray a small quantity of reflective particles into the stratosphere. Keith believes the experiment may help to measure the feasibility and risks involved in GE an umbrella term for a range of techniques to deliberately adjust the climate in an effort to mitigate global warming. They include reflecting sunlight from space adding huge quantities of lime or iron to the oceans pumping deep cold nutrient rich waters to the surface of oceans and irrigating vast swaths of desert to grow trees. Supporters of research into geoengineering argue that its techniques roughly speaking divided into carbon dioxide removal CDR or negative emission technologies which removes greenhouse gases and solar radiation management SRM or solar geoengineering which reduces the amount of solar energy warming the planet could help to lessen some of the consequences of climate change. However the common consensus is that the techniques should be used in addition to reductions in CO2 emissions. This weeks conference drew attention to the huge risks involved. All the techniques being proposed have potentially severe environmental impacts said Silvia Ribeiro of the ETC Group leading campaign monitors of new technologies and their possible impact on the worlds poorest. They also ignore the question as to why theres not enough political will to have done more to tackle climate change until now and they in turn serve to justify the inaction she added. Concerns focus on techniques such as stratospheric aerosol injection which some experts say has the potential to reduce the amount of rain from Asian and African monsoons and could have a devastating impact on the food supply of billions of people. Aerosol injection also has the potential to reduce the ozone layer and heighten the risk of exposure to ultraviolet radiation. Other possible side effects of GE may be an increase in ocean acidification a change in weather patterns a rapid rise in temperatures and a huge uptake in the use of agricultural land all of which could prompt mass migration of millions of climate change refugees. But scientists such as Keith and Mark Lawrence scientific director of the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies IASS in Potsdam argue that with the Paris agreement goals to limit temperature rise to two degrees or less almost impossible to achieve the world has little choice than to thoroughly explore technical intervention and the potential it has to avoid global disaster. It will be very difficult to achieve the Paris agreement calls without some form of climate engineering Lawrence said. Its not impossible but its hard to imagine we would make the major changes in our infrastructure and lifestyles in the time necessary. Keith also dismissed the view that climate engineers like himself were on a mission to prove that climate engineering worked at all costs or else see the importance of decades of their lifes work evaporate. At the best climate engineering is a supplement and it could be that we shouldnt do it he insisted. Our work is to inform better choices and it would actually be very useful to know for sure it didnt work. Right now there are heads of state and others in leadership who are explicitly assuming it could work that its there if we need it. But lets say we found something deep in the climate models which suggested we were overoptimistic about solar geoengineering then I would say abandon it. That would be great. Id love to publish that.	False	False	False	True	False
Since thenthat figure has risen to 400 scientific papers. Can you imagine the misery and consternation and horror this is going to cause in the corrupt rancid rent seeking world of the Climate Industrial Complex? I can. It will look something like this. Just to be clear so the greenies cant bleat about being misrepresented here is what these various papers say Modern temperatures sea levels and extreme weather events are neither unusual nor unprecedented. Many regions of the Earth are cooler now than they have been for most of the last 10000 years. Natural factors such as the Sun 106 papers multi decadal oceanic atmospheric oscillations such as the NAO AMOPDO ENSO 37 papers decadal scale cloud cover variations and internal variability in general have exerted a significant influence on weather and climate changes during both the past and present. Detecting a clear anthropogenic forcing signal amidst the noise of unforced natural variability may therefore be difficult. And current emissions mitigation policies especially related to the advocacy for renewables are often costly ineffective and perhaps even harmful to the environment. On the other hand elevated CO2 and a warmer climate provide unheralded benefits to the biosphere i.e. a greener planet and enhanced crop yields. In other words nobody is denying that climate changes nobody is denying that the planet has warmed by 0.8 degrees C in the last 150 yearswhile only a handfuldeny that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases has the power to influence temperatures. What they are saying in their different ways is that global warming as in the big scare story that the planet is heating up at a catastrophic unprecedented rate because of man made CO2 emissions is bunk or that the methods being used to combat the problem are bunk. Here courtesy of Kenneth Richard who has waded through them all are some examples of what they say. Greenhouse Effect Not the Main Driver of Climate Together with these 400 new papers that makes 900 science papers in the last two years casting doubt on global warming.	False	False	False	True	False
Unchecked climate change will cost the US hundreds of billions of dollars and damage human health and quality of life a US government report warns. Future risks from climate change depend... on decisions made today the 4th National Climate Assessment says. The report says climate change is presenting growing challenges to human health and safety quality of life and the rate of economic growth. The warning is at odds with the Trump administration's fossil fuels agenda. During a blast of icy weather in Washington this week Donald Trump tweeted whatever happened to global warming? Now without mentioning the president his own scientists have answered their boss's question in comprehensive detail. Global warming is here in the United States they say now. It is already deadly serious and without urgent dramatic change it will be catastrophic. This report is striking for two reasons. First it is not abstract. It gives many specific examples overwhelmed dams in South Carolina failing crops in the parched Great Plains a rise in insect borne disease in Florida. And secondly it majors on the economic impact in effect challenging the White House's insistence on prioritising economic growth over environmental regulation. With warnings about the effects on crumbling infrastructure falling crop yields and decreasing labour productivity the report sounds an alarm that climate change will soon cascade into every corner of American life. The White House said the report compiled with help from numerous US government agencies and departments was inaccurate. Spokeswoman Lindsay Walters said it was largely based on the most extreme scenario which contradicts long established trends by assuming that... there would be limited technology and innovation and a rapidly expanding population. The world's leading scientists agree that climate change is human induced and warn that natural fluctuations in temperature are being exacerbated by human activity. The US climate assessment outlines the prospective impacts of climate change across every sector of American society. With continued growth in emissions at historic rates annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century more than the current gross domestic product GDP of many US states the report says. Without substantial and sustained global mitigation and regional adaptation efforts climate change is expected to cause growing losses to American infrastructure and property and impede the rate of economic growth over this century. The report notes that the effects of climate change are already being felt in communities across the country including more frequent and intense extreme weather and climate related events. But it says that projections of future catastrophe could change if society works to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to adapt to the changes that will occur. Environmental groups said the report underlined their demands for action. Brenda Ekwurzel director of climate science at the Union of Concerned Scientists and one of the report's authors said the report made it clear that climate change was not some problem in the distant future. It's happening right now in every part of the country she said. That view was echoed by Abigail Dillen president of environmental group Earthjustice. While President Trump continues to ignore the threat of climate change his own administration is sounding the alarm she said. In October President Trump accused climate change scientists of having a political agenda telling Fox News he was unconvinced that humans were responsible for the earth's rising temperatures. After taking office he announced the US would withdraw from the Paris climate change agreement which commits another 187 other countries to keeping rising global temperatures well below 2C above pre industrial levels. At the time Mr Trump said he wanted to negotiate a new fair deal that would not disadvantage US businesses and workers. During his election campaign in 2016 Mr Trump said climate change was a hoax. However he has since rowed back on that statement saying in a recent interview I don't think it's a hoax I think there's probably a difference. A report released in October by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC the leading international body evaluating climate change said it could only be stopped if the world made major and costly changes. That means reducing global emissions of CO2 by 45 from 2010 levels by 2030 and reducing coal use to almost zero and using up to seven million sq km 2.7 million square miles for land energy crops. If the world fails to act the researchers warned there would be some significant and dangerous changes to our world including rising sea levels significant impacts on ocean temperatures and acidity and the ability to grow crops such as rice maize and wheat.	True	False	False	False	False
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his climate change minister Catherine McKenna are both disappointed over President Donald Trumps decision to break with the Paris climate accord. Trudeau and Trump exchanged words over the phone on Thursday night when the prime minister expressed his disappointment with the presidents decision according to a news release from the Prime Ministers Office. Through crestfallen Trudeau reiterated to the president Canadas continued commitment to working internationally to address climate change. This is about an ambitious and unshakable desire to leave a cleaner healthier and more sustainable planet for our kids and for generations to come. Despite the lofty objectives when Trudeau signed the Paris accord he was widely criticized in Canada by environmentalists for selling out to an agreement that they said was far too lenient on greenhouse gas producers. Nonetheless Liberal Environment and Climate Change Minister Catherine McKenna also found Trumps resolve to extricate the U.S. from the accord deeply disappointing and even suggested that the president will be missing out from the inevitable increase in green energy jobs that climate change proponents believe will soon be mushrooming around the world. The clean growth economy is where the world is going and Canada is going to be part of it McKenna said Thursday on Parliament Hill. Canada wants to create good jobs and wants to grow our economy and create opportunities for business. We want to be there we want to be providing solutions for the world. We know where were going. However the U.S. move might well affect Trudeaus plans to implement a national carbon tax and his overall environmental agenda that many critics say will make the Canadian economy less competitive than its American counterpart. With the North American Free Trade Agreement on the cusp of renegotiation environmental policy could well become integral to reaching a new agreement.	True	False	False	True	True
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd our email newsletter. WASHINGTON The Environmental Protection Agency plans to change the way it calculates the health risks of air pollution a shift that would make it easier to roll back a key climate change rule because it would result in far fewer predicted deaths from pollution according to five people with knowledge of the agencys plans. The E.P.A. had originally forecast that eliminating the Obama era rule the Clean Power Plan and replacing it with a new measure would have resulted in an additional 1400 premature deaths per year. The new analytical model would significantly reduce that number and would most likely be used by the Trump administration to defend further rollbacks of air pollution rules if it is formally adopted. The proposed shift is the latest example of the Trump administration downgrading the estimates of environmental harm from pollution in regulations. In this case the proposed methodology would assume there is little or no health benefit to making the air any cleaner than what the law requires. Many experts said that approach was not scientifically sound and that in the real world there are no safe levels of the fine particulate pollution associated with the burning of fossil fuels. Fine particulate matter the tiny deadly particles that can penetrate deep into the lungs and enter the bloodstream is linked to heart attacks strokes and respiratory disease.	False	False	False	True	False
Biden took questions from a group in New Castle New Hampshire Friday. One woman associated with the environmental group 350 New Hampshire Action Rebecca Beaulieu asked Biden how voters can trust him if he continues to associate himself with fossil fuel executives. How can we trust that youre going to act on climate on the climate crisis if youre still attending fundraisers that fossil fuel executives are attending? Beaulieuasked according to the Daily Mail. Video shows Biden walking over to the woman taking her hand and making a solemn promise to end fossil fuel before 2050 God willing. Kiddo I want you to just take a look. I want you to look into my eyes Biden began. I guarantee you I guarantee you we are going to end fossil fuel and I am not going to cooperate with them. Before 2050 God willing Biden continued adding that 2030 is not a realistic goal No it cant be done by 2030. No not one single person is arguing it can be done by that. But it can be done by 2050. Maybe 2045? And is the science increases we may be able to move more quickly. But we have to we can fundamentally change things in the next 10 years though so that we set a path? I promise you I promise you. OK. Beaulieu 24 said she wasnt expecting that kind of response from Biden and described it as patronizing. Just a little patronizing because I want to be an adult at the table when it comes to conversations about climate and what were going to do about it and I dont want to be like someone whos sitting on the sidelines waiting for other people to act she said according to the Daily Mail. Im also like actively doing something to try to combat this climate crisis as it stands. Being called a kid is a little patronizing when Im trying to do so much work she added. She also said she was unsatisfied with Bidens refusal to bend his 2050 goal. But I hope that he takes the climate crisis as seriously as he tried to make it seem and that if hes going to keep moving forward with his plans he needs to reevaluate because 2050 is too late she said. Biden recently came under fire for attending a fundraiser hosted by Andrew Goldman a founder of the natural gas company Western LNG. The former vice president dismissed concerns telling viewers of CNNs climate change town hall Wednesday that Goldman is not a fossil fuel executive. He is not a fossil fuel executive Biden said. And the fact of the matter is that what we talk about is what are we going to do about those corporations? What have we done? And everywhere along the way for example Ive argued and pushed for us suing those executives who are engaged in pollution those companies engaged in pollution he added. Ive never walked away from that.	False	False	False	False	True
The generation that has grown up with the constant drumbeat of manmade climate change is now shaping public policy including some young conservatives who have launched a nationwide campaign in support of a carbon tax. The Thomson Reuters Foundation reported on the campaign which runs counter to the stance of the Republican Party and President Donald Trump that the issue is more about globalization than saving the planet Drawn from Republican groups on more than two dozen university campuses the Young Conservatives for Carbon Dividends called for laws to tax oil natural gas and coal producers of planet warming greenhouse gases. The taxation plan would make fossil fuels more costly while the resulting revenues would go to taxpayers. We claim to be the party that cares about the future that our children will inherit and we need climate policy that reflects that said Kiera OBrien 21 a senior at Harvard University who co founded the group. We are offering up what we see as the common sense solution and the way forward for the party OBrien said in the Reuters article. The article pointed out that Trump has rejected the climate doomsday scenario and has instead acted to help the U.S. energy sector by slashing regulations and withdrawing the U.S. from the Paris Climate Accord both policies aimed at helping American workers and the economy. The college Republicans behind the carbon tax campaign said the Party should have ahead of the 2020 election a climate change plan in place. Their plan includes an initial 40 a ton tax on carbon dioxide a greenhouse gas at mines wells and ports where products are produced. That tax rate would increase over time according to Reuters. OBrien said the plan includes a family of four receiving 2000 a year from the carbon tax revenues to help with higher energy costs. The plan harnesses the power of the free market to solve climate change through innovation OBrien said. Our plan would provide incentives for companies and individuals to lower emissions in ways they think are best. The campaign will connect young conservatives with Republican lawmakers around the country to talk about climate policy. At least one older Republican backs the idea. The key here is the dividend back to the people former Sen. Trent Lott R MS who supports the young group told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. Its not sustainable for Republicans through the leadership to say We just dont want to talk about this' Lott said.	False	False	False	False	False
Shell is preparing to set strict carbon emissions targets in 2019 amid intense pressure from activist shareholders who believe energy companies should be held accountable for aspects of global warming. The company also plans on linking such targets to the pay of senior executives subject to a shareholder vote in 2020. Shell is still in talks with investors about the percentage to be targets but the companys top employees salaries could be affected The Financial Times reported Sunday. We will be systematically driving down our carbon footprint over time chief executive Ben van Beurden told reporters Sunday. We all know the benefits of energy but there are associated effects that we have to manage. The pledge is a significant change in position for van Beurden who had previously opposed such proposals citing concerns about potential lawsuits. His concerns about potential waves of lawsuits are not unfounded. Environmentalists have convinced several American cities to sue Exxon Chevron and other energy companies to force them to pay for supposedly making disasters worse. Judges have already dismissed several lawsuits but the fear of future litigation is not lost on Shell and others. Shell now aims to curb emissions by around 20 percent over the next 15 years and the company will hammer out specific targets starting in 2020. The latest move was backed by Climate Action 100 a group of nearly 300 international investors carrying roughly 32 trillion in assets. The company has also pledged to review its connections to industry lobbying groups that oppose the Paris agreement a non binding deal crafted in 2015 with the goal of dramatically reducing global carbon emissions over the next 15 years. Activist shareholders have continually pushed energy companies to make bold moves showing their adherence to cutting emissions. Some analyst groups worry activist shareholders use a largely unregulated industry to hoodwink U.S. companies into accepting proposals designed to tackle climate change that carry little long term benefits.RELATEDA Federal Judge Torches Two Lawsuits Trying To Blame Oil Companies For Climate Change So called proxy advisory firms craft disclosure requirements that force companies to show they are taking efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions. The process especially disadvantages small companies in favor of larger companies that have the resources to comply with investor dictates the American Council for Capital Formation noted in May. Proxy advisory firms provide analysis and consulting services to issuers and companies about how annual and special proxies should be voted. The lack of transparency and competition in the proxy advisory firm industry gives a small number of businesses significant influence over how corporations deal with environmental issues. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	False	False	True	True
In its first year in office the Trump administration introduced a solitary new environmental rule aimed at protecting the public from pollution. It was aimed not at sooty power plants or emissions intensive trucks but dentists. Every year dentists fill Americans tooth cavities with an amalgam that includes mercury. About 5 tons of mercury a dangerous toxin that can taint the brain and the nervous system are washed away from dental offices down drains each year. In Trumps first day in the White House the administration told the Environmental Protection Agency EPA to withdraw an Obama era plan that would require dentists to prevent this mercury from getting into waterways. But in June the rule was unexpectedly enacted. This apparent change of heart followed legal action filed by green groups part of a cascade of courtroom standoffs that are starting to slow and even reverse the Trump administrations blitzkrieg of environmental regulations. The Trump administration has been sloppy and careless theyve shown significant disrespect for rule of law and courts have called them on it said Richard Revesz a professor at the New York University school of law. I expect we will see a number of further losses for the administration on similar grounds. If they keep showing the same disregard for the law their attempt to repeal all these environmental regulations will go badly for them. The reversal of Obamas environmental legacy has been spearheaded by Scott Pruitt who heads the EPA the agency he repeatedly sued as Oklahoma attorney general. Pruitt who accused Obama of bending the rule of law and federal overreach has overseen the methodical delay or scrapping of dozens of rules curbing pollution from power plants pesticides and vehicles. Ironically for Pruitt who has touted a back to basics approach rooted safely within the confines of the law this rapidly executed agenda has run into a thicket of legal problems causing the administration to admit defeat in several cases. In July a federal court ruled that the EPA couldnt suspend rules designed to curb methane emissions from new oil and gas wells. This was followed by a hasty retreat in August when the EPA agreed to not delay new standards to reduce smog causing air pollutants the day after 15 states and environment groups sued. Then in December a federal court told the EPA it couldnt delay a new standard for dangerous levels of lead in paint and dust. Other arms of the federal government have also been stymied from implementing Trumps deregulatory agenda. The US Fish and Wildlife Service stung by a lawsuit listed the rusty patched bumblebee as endangered in March after initially delaying the decision. And on Thursday a federal court told the department of energy it must implement four energy efficiency regulations it was looking to scuttle. Many of these legal problems have stemmed from the sheer pace of the rollbacks required public comment periods have been set aside in some cases any rationale for repeal or delay has been missing in others. Opponents of the administration also believe there is a determination to expunge every vestige of Obamas environmental legacy regardless of merit. They are trying to score political points or attempting to grant favours to corporations who dont want to follow the rules said Aaron Colangelo the litigation director of the Natural Resources Defense Council. It all shows that this administration wont protect the environment unless they are sued. They have been reckless and not followed the basic requirements of the law. The EPA now faces a fresh wave of opposition as it looks to craft replacements for major Obama rules such as the clean power plan which sought to limit emissions from coal fired power plants and the waters of the US rule which greatly expanded clean water protections. If the proposed replacements are as expected far less onerous on industry than current iterations environmentalists and around a dozen states headed by New York and California will be poised to further jam up the process in the courts. Over and over again the Trump administration has put the profits of multinational polluters over the health and well being of everyday Americans said Eric Schneiderman New Yorks attorney general. Schneiderman has been prolific in opposing Trumps environmental revisions filing more than 50 lawsuits during the administrations first year to among other things protect the clean power plan enforce stricter vehicle pollution standards and ensure that chlorpyrifos a common pesticide linked to neurological harm to children is banned. Weve already beaten back several of this administrations toxic policies from energy efficiency rollbacks to smog Schneiderman said. Our fight to protect public health and our environment will continue in court.	True	False	False	True	True
It was clear Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke felt at home Tuesday addressing representatives of the industry that was a top donor to his congressional campaigns. Its the same industrythat the Trump administration has worked so hard to prop up over the last two years and that Zinke now regulates as chief steward of Americas natural resources. I see a lot of familiar faces he told the National Petroleum Council during its meeting in Washington D.C. before launching into a series of go to talking points about the importance of producing domestic energy namely fossil fuels and downplaying the dire conclusions of a recent federal climate report. We want to embrace better stewardship. We want to embrace reliability. In order to get there we have to understand the technology. And in order to understand it quite frankly we have to work with you he said. Ive been criticized for saying we want to work with you. Ill take the criticism. Zinke was referring to controversial comments he made in September during a keynote speech at the Louisiana Oil and Gas Associations meeting in Lafayette Louisiana. Our government should work for you he told the oil and gas trade group according to a post by the association. As head of the Interior Department Zinke oversees some 500 million acres of land or one fifth of the United States and 1.7 billion acres on the Outer Continental Shelf. Its a job that comes with the sometimes conflicting tasks of preserving and protecting public lands and waters for future generations while also setting the policies that govern extracting natural resources from them. Zinke has said that hes succeeded in striking the right balance but conservation efforts have taken a clear backseat as the administration has pushed forward with its energy dominance agenda. There were moments during Tuesdays speech where Zinke sounded like a seasoned oil man. He said he is bullish on energy and expects that within two years the U.S. will be marching real close to producing 14 million barrels of oil per day. And he agrees with Russian President Vladimir Putin that 60 per barrel is a good spot to keep the economic engine in good shape he said. Weve gotten a lot better as industry Zinke said quickly correcting himself. Youve gotten a lot better. He pointed to energy producers success with domestic shale production noting that companies have been able to turn a profit on oil from the Bakken fields in Montana and North Dakota when prices have been at around 30 per barrel. That he said shows you how good we are and efficient we are. Zinke also saw the friendly atmosphere as an opportunity to once again cast doubt on the latest federal climate assessment. The 1600 page report was issued by 13 federal agencies including Interior and released on Black Friday the day after Thanksgiving a move that many saw as an administrative attempt to bury the findings. Like so many other climate reports before it the assessment warns that greenhouse gas emissions have put the planet on a path toward catastrophic climate change. But instead of blasting the reports authors there are more than 300 for basing their findings on the most extreme scenarios a false claim that he and the White House pushed last week Zinke on Tuesday blamed the media among other targets. The media focused on worst case scenarios which statistically we may not even be able to reach he said. The facts of the matter is observable data climate change is more toward the peace time he added comparing the document to international relations. Its kind of like the military he said. Theres peace time and theres global nuclear combat. The media focused on global nuclear combat. A lot of the millennials look at that report and they dont look at the models instead focusing on rising sea levels that statistically and data wise we dont know he said. Zinke boasted to the room full of oil executives who have been primary beneficiaries of the Trump administrations denial of climate science and energy dominance agenda that the U.S. has led the charge in reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. His concern as the leader of the federal agency he said is that we need to be better at emphasizing the case for American energy.	False	False	False	True	True
They are essentially living corpses says Colombian scientist Rodrigo Bernal of Colombia's national tree. The ceroxylon quindiuense a distinct species of palm tree which was declared the country's national tree in 1985 is on the verge of extinction and most Colombians are not even aware of the problem. That is because it takes decades for the palms to show signs of decay even when they have already reached the end of their lifespan and scientifically they are dead explains Mr Bernal. He is one of the scientists who has been studying the trees over the past two decades and he is more than a little worried. Thousands of tourists travel to the Cocora Valley in Colombia's coffee region every year to marvel at the towering palms. But even in this area famous for its wax palms the trees are few and far between. The trees live for up to 200 years and because of their long lifespan their decay will only be seen by younger generations Mr Bernal told the BBC. This is why so many Colombians do not realise our national tree is dying out. Since 1989 the number of trees in the region has declined by 78 and there are now only about 2000 palms left in the Cocora Valley a group of scientists which has been monitoring the population says. The wax palms are not only a tourist attraction but a key component in the region's ecosystem. The fruits produced by the trees feed a large number of insects birds and mammals. But according to Mr Bernal the palms in the Cocora Valley are at risk. Much of the valley's once lush dense forest has been cut down to make way for cattle grazing. This poses problems for the seeds of the wax palm. They either get burned in the sun or they get eaten by the cows. Although the living trees are relatively healthy when they start to decay naturally there are no young saplings to take their place. The Quindo Wax Palm grows in very few areas in Colombia. Apart from the Cocora Valley they can be found in Tochecito an area in Valle del Cauca province. The little known Tochecito is thought to hold the largest number of trees an estimated 70 of the national total. But the fact that parts of the area were occupied by the now largely disbanded Farc guerrilla group means that research there was almost impossible. Scientists hope the number of trees may actually be bigger. Mr Bernal and his fellow scientists have turned their attention to Tochecito in the hope that they can preserve its wax palms before it is too late. With the area now safer and more accessible following the 2016 peace deal with the Farc rebels farmers are moving back and the scientists fear for the future of the national tree. We predict we could see half the wax palm population disappear in as little as 50 years' time says Luis Santiago Castillo Martnez of the Humboldt Institute an environmental research organisation. Tochecito is our best opportunity to protect the palms he says of the 42 sq km 16 sq mile area. The palm trees are legally protected under a law passed in 1985 which prevents their branches being cut off for use during religious celebrations such as Palm Sunday but there are few repercussions for those who completely fell the trees. Tochecito currently belongs to 40 private landowners and Mr Bernal along with the Humboldt Institute has been asking the Colombian government to declare the area a national park but so far with little success. The most we could achieve was to encourage the owners to declare their farms private reserves says Mr Bernal. Unfortunately there is a loophole to that status he adds. This just means your land is a protected area but it's an empty status as you can use your land however you see fit. If these landowners decide they want to clear their land they can. Mr Bernal and his fellow scientists have for years been urging the government to buy up the land a move they estimate would cost 10m 7.7m but so far no action has been taken. It's not a huge amount. It's cents for a nation like Colombia. The government has the authority to buy this land and protect the trees but refuses to do so. It is incredibly frustrating he says. The BBC approached Colombia's environment ministry ministry and the government body which oversees the management of Colombia's national parks for comment but did not receive an answer. Colombia's 58 national parks are managed by the National Parks Systems and while the number of those designated as protected in Colombia has been growing the budget has been cut leaving it struggling for resources. Mr Castillo says money is key The first step to protecting the palms will be to allocate the proper amount to the environmental sector. Mr Bernal and his fellow scientists have developed a management plan to save the species but the budget cuts mean their strategy is unlikely to be enacted. I'm so disappointed Mr Bernal says. This tree is beloved by Colombian people everyone knows it is our national tree But nobody knows we are about to lose it.	False	True	False	True	False
CNN The acting director of the federal agency responsible for managing one in every 10 acres of land in the United States has repeatedly denied the existence of climate change and falsely claimed in a 1990s speech there was no credible evidence of a hole in the ozone layer. William Perry Pendley was appointed by Interior Secretary David Bernhardt as the acting director of the Department of Interior's Bureau of Land Management in July 2019. Prior to his appointment Pendley was a conservative activist commentator lawyer and served as the longtime president of the conservative Mountain States Legal Foundation. Despite the total absence of credible scientific evidence the media is convinced and is attempting to convince us that we have global warming an Ozone hole and acid rain and that it is all man's fault Pendley said in a 1992 speech to the Heritage Foundation. In other comments uncovered during a CNN KFile review of his social media activity writings and public appearances Pendley cited an anti Muslim figure to claim Islam was at war with the United States compared undocumented immigrants to cancer and blamed them for diseases. Asked about his comments and if he still holds his views Pendley said his views were being taken out of context and were irrelevant to his role at BLM. As someone in the public arena for nearly four decades I've given countless statements and written scores of articles on a wide variety of topics. Cherrypicking a few of them out of context is neither useful nor connected to my current position. I'm focused now on implementing the policy priorities of the Trump administration and Secretary Bernhardt within the authorities and mission given this agency by Congress. My personal views are irrelevant in this context. 'Environmentalism' is indeed the last refuge of the left the last safe haven for those who trust not the people but big government those who seek to place the power in the hands of federal bureaucrats Pendley said. No wonder the environmental message has became the cause of choice for the elitists of Hollywood. It should not surprise us that they have embraced environmentalism with the same self righteous fervor as they once embraced socialism and communism. Despite the total absence of credible scientific evidence the media is convinced and is attempting to convince us that we have global warming an Ozone hole and acid rain and that it is all man's fault he added. Pendley has repeatedly denied the existence of climate change and mocked the scientific consensus around environmental issues as rooted in bad science. I debated an environmentalist on television here in Denver and and it's he she was quoting people about global warming and I said you realize the people you're quoting just a couple of years ago were predicting global cooling on a massive scale that we would not be able to feed ourselves. And it stopped her for just a second Pendley said. And then she said 'Well it's going to be something.' And that's what the environmentalists say. It's going to be something to quote another movie from the movie The Fly 'Be afraid be very afraid.' And that's what they're preaching. They're preaching fear. At times Pendley's denial of climate change has drifted into even more fringe claims linking the broader US environmental movement to the fall of the Soviet Union and communism. Because of the collapse of communism because the wall has come down because the Soviet Union is no more...the environmental movement is the last refuge of people who favor government over people he said. Who knew? Islam's war with America started just up the road in Greeley Colorado! Pendley tweeted. In the article Spencer floats unfounded conspiracies about leftists allying with Islamic hardliners who adhere to Sharia a system of laws that would have many of them executed. New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and President Barack Obama think if one can call it thinking or anything more than wishful thinkingthat Americans should be afraid of terrorist attacks not from all those who embrace radical Islam but from their countrymen who hold very strong views on important issues of the day? Pendley wrote. Pendley has repeatedly used extreme rhetoric to refer to undocumented immigrants. You see the problems Hazleton or Valley Park faces could be in your community next because illegal immigration is spreading like a cancer Pendley wrote. Partly this is because Mexico and some other governments promote and encourage illegal immigration into our country. Pendley went on to say if massive immigration continued you and I will permanently lose the country we love Frustrated by the failure of the federal government to address the issue of illegal immigration and the problems it poses for the tiny cash strapped city including violent crime crowded schools hospital costs and the demand for servicesthe City Council at the request of Mayor Lou Barletta adopted legislation to deal with these problems. Violent crimeincluding dangerous gangs over crowded schools the appearance of diseases once vanquished from the western world escalating hospital costs and an overwhelming demand for government services! Pendley wrote. These are the new problems being faced by small cash strapped cities and towns all across America. The source illegal immigrants.	False	False	False	True	True
In an interview on MSNBC on Thursday former Secretary of State John Kerry said President Donald Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris Climate Accord puts America last is shameful and will hurt kids by worsening their asthma. It is a shameful moment for the United States to have unilaterally walked away from an agreement which did not have one other country requiring us to do something Kerry told Andrea Mitchell. It was a voluntary program The president was not truthful with the American people today and the president who talked about putting America first has now put America last. Kerry claimed Trump is not helping the forgotten American. Trump is not helping the forgotten American Kerry said. He is hurting them. Their kids will have worse asthma in the summer. They will have a harder time having economic growth. Hes made us an environmental pariah in the world and I think it is one of the most self destructive moves Ive ever seen by any president in my lifetime. Kerrys primary arguments that Trumps decision will hurt kids with asthma and damage the economy were incredibly misleading. A 2015 study by researcher Dr. Corrine Keet at Johns Hopkins Children Center found no statistically significant difference in the prevalence of asthma for kids living in inner city areas where there is much more air pollution and kids who live in the suburbs and rural areas. More than 23000 children were included in the study. Daniel Simmons the vice president for policy at the Institute for Energy Research noted in a quote appearing in an article by EE News that asthma rates have been steadily worsening even though air quality has been improving. Air quality has been increasing pollution has been decreasing things are getting better and asthmas getting worse Simmons said. You have this disconnect. In 2013 USA Today reported that Earths warming climate has caused pollen season to increase thereby exacerbating many peoples asthma. If climate change is being caused by human produced carbon dioxide this could lend support to Kerrys claim about asthma. Of course scientists disagree over what has caused Earths climate to warm over the past century and perhaps most importantly increased pollen comesfrom increased plant growth and as a result increased crop yields. Should more plants and food for people and animals really be demonized? Kerrys argument that Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris Agreement will cause economic problems is equally absurd. Kerry cited in the interview the millions of renewable energy jobs that have been created to help curb carbon dioxide emissions as an example of how the Paris Agreement and its associated efforts would have a positive impact on the economy but the truth is that the only reason the wind and solar energy industries have been able to survive is because they are heavily subsidized by taxpayers. Further wind and solar are much more expensive forms of energy which means Americans power bills would continue to rise under the terms of the Paris Climate Agreement. As H. Sterling Burnett a research fellow in climate and energy issues for The Heartland Institute where I also work as executive editor and a research fellow noted in a recent article on Trumps decision Numerous studies including a NERA Economic Consulting report cited in Trumps announcement showed meeting the carbon dioxide targets imposed on the United States under the Paris agreement would force the premature closing of many of the nations least expensive power plants. NERA estimated meeting the nations obligations under the agreement would cost the U.S. economy nearly 3 trillion and by 2040 the United States would have lost 6.5 million industrial sector jobs including 3.1 million manufacturing jobs.	True	False	False	True	True
Bottled water firm Crystal Geysers heavily protested plans for a plant in Washington state are all but dashed after company execs accidentally sent an internal email calling the operation dead to the local press. Crystal Geyser bottles natural spring water and sells it to thirsty Americans with nearly one in five consumers drinking its beverages every month. However few are happy to live near the firms bottling plants where they say heavy traffic disturbs their sleep and the companys water collection activities threaten endangered species and destroy the rural character of their areas. Earlier this year Crystal Geyser bought land in Lewis County Washington. The company planned on building a 100000 square foot plant that would extract 400 gallons of water per minute from nearby springs. At present Crystal Geyser needs a county permit to begin operations. However in an email accidentally sent to The Chronicle but intended for a higher up Chief Operating Officer Page Beykpour said that the plan is likely dead because the opposition has successfully convinced officials and the media against us. Locals did come out in force against the plant with concerned citizens flooding council meetings since the plans were announced last month. Facebook groups have sprung up to oppose the plant and the local tribal council voted unanimously against it. Beykpour offered his boss two long shot options to push back against the public outcry. Option one involved hiring a PR firm to manufacture fake grassroots support for the facility and change the conversation. With pro corporate protesters likely to raise some eyebrows he outlined a more radical approach sue locals in the area for past damages to the local water system to bring them to the table. If both options were to fail Beykpour suggested we dump this site and move on. Once the paper got a hold of the email Crystal Geyser went into panic mode. The newspaper claims Beykpour called the Chronicle and pleaded for the email not to be published and admitted that the company is still mulling suing its neighbors. In his email Beykpour had claimed the Chronicle was in bed with the opposition. A lawyer representing Crystal Geyser called the newspaper and threatened legal action for running the story. The Chronicle rubbished the threat quoting a media law expert who stated that the companys email screw up was its own fault and not the newspapers. RT has reached out to Crystal Geyser for comment and is awaiting a response. Crystal Geyser is no stranger to local anger. Residents in Mount Shasta California were furious when the company announced plans to bottle water from a local aquefier in 2014 at a time when the state was threatened by drought and Californians faced mandatory water use restrictions. In 2018 the company was accused of illegally disposing of arsenic tainted wastewater from another of its California plants. According to a 16 count indictment Crystal Geyser discharged the toxic waste into a pond that staff dubbed the arsenic pond and then worked with two waste disposal firms to illegally transport the arsenic to a plant without a license to treat it. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	True	True	False	True	False
Congressional Republicans have opened an investigation into a second U.S. based environmental group over its ties to the Chinese government. Top Republicans on the House Natural Resources Committee asked the World Resources Institute WRI an environmental advocacy group to turn over documents related to its work with Chinese officials and their advocacy in the U.S. Lawmakers want to know if WRIs desire to maintain good relations with the Chinese is affecting the groups U.S. operations and advocacy effectively making it a foreign agent of the communist government. WRIs desire to maintain access to Chinese officials may influence its political activities in the United States Republican Reps. Rob Bishop of Utah and Bruce Westermanof Arkansaswrote in a letter to WRI President Andrew Steer sent Wednesday. Given WRIs close ties to the Chinese government its emphasis on cultivating contacts with various U.S. officials is particularly disconcerting in light of the government partnerships and environmental initiatives involving WRI during the Obama Administration they wrote. RELATED NYT Suggests Global Warming Is To Blame For Roger Federers US Open Defeat Since President Trumps election WRI political activities have turned to influencing state and municipal governments the lawmakers wrote. In at least one governors office WRI has embedded a senior environmental adviser and appears to exercise a high level of control of the governments environmental agenda. WRI describes itself as a nonprofit global research organization that operates in more than 60 countries including China. WRI played a role in the Paris Agreement negotiations in 2015 and praised China for its pledge to cut greenhouse gas emissions. Chinas Paris accord pledge however has been criticized by experts who saw it as nothing more than promising to continue current economic trends. WRI opposed President Donald Trumps decision to leave the Paris accord in 2017 in a statement that also praised China for committing to the climate agreement. WRI is the second group Bishop and Westerman investigated for ties to China. Lawmakers asked the Natural Resource Defense Council NRDC for documents related to its Chinese ties in June. NRDC has a two decade relationship with Chinas communist government which it has heaped praise on for its commitment to fighting pollution and global warming. At the same time NRDC has relentlessly attacked the Trump administration Bishop and Westerman said in their letter to the group. Bishop and Westerman said NRDC and WRI activities mirror those laid out in reports on Chinas vast influence machine which it uses to shape its global image including on environmental issues. WRI has operated in China since 2008 and was issued a registration certificate in 2017 to work under the guidance and supervision of the Beijing Public Security Bureau and Chinese Ministry of Ecology and Environment the lawmakers wrote. WRI leadership regularly interacts with senior Chinese government and Communist party officials and provides public support for Chinese environmental programs Bishop and Westerman wrote.While WRI criticizes policies of the U.S. government WRI is silent on Chinese human rights violations such as arrests of environmental protesters and the mass detention of ethnic minorities. On important issues for Chinese leadership WRIs position appears to closely reflect Chinas goals and objectives the two lawmakers added. WRI did not immediately respond to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for comment.	False	False	False	True	False
Antarctica Has Lost More Than 3 Trillion Tons Of Ice In 25 Years Scientists have completed the most exhaustive assessment of changes in Antarctica's ice sheet to date. And they found that it's melting faster than they thought. Ice losses totaling 3 trillion tonnes or more than 3.3 trillion tons since 1992 have caused global sea levels to rise by 7.6 mm nearly one third of an inch according to a study published in Nature on Wednesday. Before 2010 Antarctica was contributing a relatively small proportion of the melting that is causing global sea levels to rise says study co leader Andrew Shepherd of the University of Leeds. But that has changed. Since around 2010 2012 we can see that there's been a sharp increase in the rate of ice loss from Antarctica. And the ice sheet is now losing three times as much ice Shepherd adds. The annual sea level rise that's attributed to Antarctica has tripled from 0.2mm to 0.6mm he says. That's a big jump and it did catch us all by surprise Shepherd says. The melting is caused by rising ocean temperatures due to climate change. Shepherd says they've seen the most dramatic effects in West Antarctica where the ice sheet rests on the sea bed. When we look into the ocean we find that it's too warm and the ice sheet can't withstand the temperatures that are surrounding it in the sea he says. That's causing glaciers to flow more quickly into the sea. East Antarctica which is home to the South Pole has seen considerably less melting because most of its ice is above sea level. That's an important distinction because it means it's insulated from changes in the ocean's temperature. This assessment conducted by 84 scientists from 44 international organizations is known as the Ice Sheet Mass Balance Inter comparison Exercise IMBIE. There have been many other estimates of how much ice has melted in Antarctica. And many of those papers showed different results. Some of the estimates covered different proportions of the ice sheets some of them covered different time periods and all of them used different methods and so it became difficult for people who are not specialists to try to pick them apart says Shepherd. So that was the motivation for originally setting up the project. The scientists combined 24 different satellite surveys which Shepherd says provides a more complete picture of the overall ice sheet change than previous studies. We believe that we've captured all of the different satellite records that exist on the planet he says. To analyze the ice the researchers use three different kinds of measurements. Satellite altimeters measure the height of the ice sheets to see how much they are thinning or thickening over time. Another measurement records the speed of the glaciers and how they're moving into the ocean. Finally the scientists are recording gravity measurements for Antarctica. These tell us about changes in the earth's gravitational attraction over time and that can be related to the mass of the ice sheets overall Shepherd says and they are really powerful measurements because they can add up everything across Antarctica. So what accounts for the apparent three fold speed up in Antarctica's melting in the last five years? Shepherd says that actually their data shows a a progressive increase in ice loss throughout the whole 25 year time period. However a period of heavy snowfall between 2005 and 2010 masked some of the immediate effects of the ice loss accounting for the sudden steep increase in more recent years. This new data creates a much starker picture of the future than previous estimates. Shepherd says until 2010 the data had been tracking a lower scenario which estimated that Antarctica wouldn't make much of a contribution to sea level rise at all because of the effects of higher snowfall. However he says that now the data is tracking a higher scenario which could mean nearly 6 inches of additional sea level rise in the next century. That could be a big deal he says for anybody who lives works and governs a coastal region. Understanding the rate of Antarctica's melting is crucial for these communities. If all of the ice in Antarctica melted global sea levels would rise by more than 190 feet.	True	True	False	True	False
Jessica Fujan chants on the Wacker Drive during a 100 Days of Failure protest and march Saturday April 29 2016 in Chicago. Thousands of people across the U.S. are marking President Donald Trump's hundredth day in office by marching in protest of his environmental policies. AP PhotoNam Y. HuhAP It seems like every week theres a new story about some completely unprecedented unpredictable environmental event. Antarctica is turning green. California is paralyzed by drought. Forests are shifting and the first climate refugees have lost their homes. The climate is changing and quickly. And we arent keeping up with it. This isnt because there is not enough scientific evidence to prove the threatthere is. It isnt because the majority of Americans dont believe climate change is caused by human activitythey do. And it isnt as has been suggested because weve become so immune to data that numbers arent persuasive anymore. We arent keeping up with climate change because the environmental movement is allowing a legacy of implicit bias to constrict its leadership and strategy. By refusing to challenge the long held belief that white environmentalists are the most informed prepared passionate dedicated defenders of our planet and its natural resources the movement silences communities of color. It silences the very people who often feel the greatest impact of a warming planet even though activists of color could make or break success for this work. In our new report Green 2.0 found that the environmental movementfrom boards to executive leadership to staffis still overwhelmingly white. Green 2.0 is an advocacy campaign that monitors and supports diversifying the racial and ethnic demography of mainstream environmental NGOs foundations and federal government agencies. We help hiring managers and executive search firms access the deep pipeline of qualified candidates of color help organizations build an equitable and inclusive culture internally and advocate for data transparency across the sector. For the past three years we have been working to build our database of the diversity of the top 40 NGOs across the movement. In 2014 we reported their staff and leadership demographics to create the first ever snapshot of the sector. It was that baseline that we used in the report we release today the Transparency Card which evaluates what kind of change has been made. We saw some encouraging progress. Overall environmental organizations have committed to improving diversity among their staff and board since we started this work. It is evidenced by the number of diversity committees managers and plans that have sprung up since 2014. Across the movement people of color represent 27 15 24 of staff leadership and board positions respectively in 2017. But theres still much more work to be done. More than 70 of those working in the space are white. Diversity is still seriously lacking at the senior leadership level. Two organizationsOceana and the Pew Charitable Trustsrefused to even participate in the survey. This is problem and not just a theoretical one. From Flint to Standing Rock weve seen that communities of color are disproportionately affected by pollution and climate change. When they dont have a seat at the table how can the movement be ready to systematically tackle issues that affect them uniquely? Without people of color in leadership and policymaking positions their perspectives are less likely to be included in outcomes. And furthermore with the environmental challenges facing us right nowfrom the new energy economy to ocean acidificationwe need all the creativity available to help us find pathways to clean food water and air. Its simple the more diverse the group discussing the problem is the more comprehensive sustainable and creative the solutions are. The time has come for radical thinking for inclusive problem solving for crowd sourced innovation. We have spent decades leaving people of color out of the environmental movement. Its time that we own our mistakes and get real about our shortcomings. Its long overdue that we intentionally count how many people of color are staffing and leading the professional environmental sector. Its urgent that we bring more voices into the conversation. Or we could let implicit bias and systemic racism undercut any chance we have at a sustainable future. The planet isnt going to wait for us to get this right. Its already far outpacing our efforts to respond to the crisis of climate change. Its time we stop letting it. Whitney Tome is the Executive Director of Green 2.0	True	False	False	False	True
ABC News Videos EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler said the agency unveiled a plan to start considering regulations on cancer causing perfluorinated substances or PFAS. The agency released whatActing EPA AdministratorAndrew Wheelercalled the most comprehensive cross agency plan to address an emerging chemical of concern ever undertaken by EPA. The regulator said it would set a limit for the chemical under the Safe Drinking Water Act by the end of the year. Wheeler said the EPA had already begun the regulatory development process for listing PFOA and PFOS as hazardous substances making it easier to marshal funds to clean up contaminations. He said the plan would include new research methods to monitor pollution. Reports last month said Wheeler widely condemned for his links to big industry would not regulate the chemicals known as perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl compounds sometimes called perfluorinated substances or PFAS at all. But critics say the EPA has gathered more than enough data over the past decade to propose an immediate drinking water standard called a maximum contaminant limit. EPA needs to release strict drinking water standards and not just do a plan or do more research said Judith Enck a former regional EPA administrator who began dealing with a PFAS crisis in upstate New York in 2014. There is enough data to take action. There is not enough urgency by Acting Administrator Wheeler and he is putting the health of millions of Americans at risk. The announcement came as the EPA published its proposal to gut the Waters of the U.S. rule which extended protections to streams and wetlands that feed the drinking water of 117 million Americans. Wheeler whose nomination to be the nations 15th EPA administrator awaits a Senate confirmation vote took heat for refusing to commit to regulating PFAS at a hearing last month. Politico reported in January that the EPA did not plan to limit the chemicals. Asked if it was possible the EPA may eventually fail to set a maximum containment limit or MCL Wheeler said the agency cant predetermine what the outcome will be but has every intention of setting an MCL. The health and environmental effects of PFAS remained virtually ignored by regulators for decades. In the late 1990sa crusading attorneysued E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Co. over a massive contamination in Parkersburg West Virginia that killed livestock and sickened and deformed many residents in the rural Appalachian community that surrounded the chemical companys plant. After a years long legal battle DuPont divested its Chemours division and the companies reached a670 million agreementto settle 3550 personal injury lawsuits in February 2017. Minnesota based chemical giant 3M is now facing mounting lawsuits of its own. Yet the chemicals remain unregulated at the federal level. In January 2009 the EPA issued its first advisory in response to contamination in Alabama stating that perfluorooctanoic acid or PFOA one of the chemicals in the family posed a health risk only in concentrations higher than 400 parts per trillion. For perfluorooctane sulfonate or PFOS a sister chemical commonly used in fire retardants the EPA pegged the limit at 200 parts per trillion. In 2016 the EPA issued a newhealth advisorylowering the risk threshold to 70 parts per trillion for both PFOA and PFOS. That set off a chain reaction exposing local contaminations across the country including several in New York State. Last May the EPA hosted anational leadership summiton PFAS but the agencys decision to bar reporters from attending sessions and one officials manhandling of an Associated Press reporter overshadowed the event. Later that month the White House and EPA moved to suppress an Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry report that found PFAS pose health risks at 70 parts per trillion. A safer limit would be closer to 11 parts per trillion the agency determined.	False	False	False	True	False
Most also say that water is the most important issue to them in that category. According to the poll which has a 3.4 margin of error 67 of Democrats 54 of independents and 33 of Republicans believe that Democrat Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom and Republican businessman John Coxs views on environmental issues will impact how they vote. So far Newsom holds a 24 point lead over Cox who beat former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigos in the June primary to proceed to the November general election. Meanwhile the PPIC poll also found that likely voters see drought and water supply as the top environmental issue facing the state followed by air pollution a majority 58 support a water bond on the November ballot and noted that astrong majority of likely voters 69 say that the effects of global warming have already begun. In an interview with the Flash Report this week Cox said water housing affordability and the gas tax are the three main issues he wants to tackle. He reportedly blamed out of touch elites for the Golden States water issues and called Newsom the poster boy for these problems. Environmental issues have been a strong point for Newsom who last year said hewould use specific environmental laws in California to stop President Donald Trumps border wall from being built. For all the talk about the importance of environmental issues to voters in the deep blue state of California the topic does not seem to do well for media outlets even left wing ones. Chris Hayes of MSNBC recentlysaid networks mostly try to avoid discussing environmental issues related to the topic of climate change because almost without exception. every single time weve covered its been a palpable ratings killer. so the incentives are not great. Adelle Nazarian is a politics and national security reporter for Breitbart News. Follow her onFacebookandTwitter.	False	True	False	True	False
The global strike set just days before September 23s U.N. Climate Action Summit in New York is expected to draw millions of activists who believe human activity is contributing to climate change and that drastic measures such as limiting meat consumption reforming the transportation sector and banning plastic straws need to be taken in order to combat the looming threat. Videos are surfacing from protests across the globe showing sizable crowds in places like Ireland Germany Australia Uganda and more Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn participated in the climate strikes in London and condemned President Trump for pulling out of the Paris Climate Agreement. No more of this handholding with Donald Trump he told the crowd. We want every country on board on this There are also climate strikes taking place in major cities across the U.S. including Boston San Francisco Seattle D.C. and New York City. Famed teen activist Greta Thunberg who sailed to the U.S. in order to avoid making a massive carbon footprint will participate in the climate strike in New York City where over one million students have been given permission to skip class in order to protest climate change Many Democrat presidential candidates are praising the effort as protests continue to kick off across the nation. There is nothing more powerful than our nations youth marching together demanding action be taken to protect our planet and their future Sen. Kamala Harris D CA wrote. Its time our leaders listened. Climate change is an existential threatand we are already facing the effects. The youth led and the solidarity strikes from groups like show that our country is ready to fight for the big structural change well need to tackle the climate crisis Sen. Elizabeth Warren D MA tweeted Young people have already demonstrated they can take on powerful fossil fuel companies and force politicians to answer their call to action Sen. Bernie Sanders I VT wrote. To the millions of young people and allies worldwide who are striking today to demand climate justice I stand with you. he added Our planet is in crisisbut we arent powerless to combat it Sen. Cory Booker D NJ declared. Inspired by the young people leading on todays and committed to standing alongside them in the battle against climate change The global strike follows Thunbergs appearance before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and Select Committee on the Climate Crisis. She submitted the United Nations IPCC Special Report on Global Warming as her written testimony writing I am submitting this report as my testimony because I dont want you to listen to me I want you to listen to the scientists. And I want you to unite behind the science.	True	False	False	True	True
Last year was the Earth's warmest recorded year the third year in a row to set a new record for global average temperatures. Rising temperatures are likely to increase the intensity and impact of major storms scientists say yet in the wake of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma the Trump administration has resisted talking about climate change at all. Several key administration officials have been on message this week declining to discuss the issue and how to address the causes of global warming and increased greenhouse gas emissions. Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget said climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media. I'll be more than happy to have a longer discussion on another day about climate change man made climate change Mulvaney told CNN's Jake Tapper on The Lead Wednesday. What we are focusing on right now is taking care of the folks who survived this disaster who need our immediate help he said. There's plenty of time later on to have those discussions and I know we will because climate change is clearly a big topic for the media but we will continue to focus our attention on the folks who need it right now. Both FEMA administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering in CNN interviews Tuesday whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of hurricanes such as Harvey and Irma. Both instead said the focus needs to be on preparedness and resiliency. Regardless of what causes disasters it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences Long told CNN. The only way we become resilient as a nation is we have to create that true culture of preparedness among our citizenry which we do not have and then we also have to look how we move forward when it comes to infrastructure protection. Duke echoed Long's thoughts on the need for resiliency a term frequently used during the administration's storm response. We live in a changing world and as the FEMA administrator said we always have to look at not just the response but the preparedness and the resilience said Duke. And I think it's important that as we come together as a country we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response that we are adapting properly. Pushed about whether the administration should also be looking at the cause of the storm Duke responded I you know the data I don't know what it particularly indicates. We haven't had a major storm like this in a quite a while. Duke added that she had to talk to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration about whether the storms were an anomaly year or a trend year. Global warming will likely cause tropical cyclones to intensify on average globally and add to a larger potential for destruction according to NOAA Tom Bossert White House adviser on Homeland Security was equally remiss to talk about the likely causes of the two hurricanes at a White House briefing Monday. Causality is something outside of my ability to analyze right now he said. There's a cyclical nature to a lot of these hurricanes. We continue to take seriously the climate change not the cause of it but the things we observe. He added that the White House would have to perform a trend analysis in the future insinuating that hurricane systems are cyclical and not tied to global warming. President Donald Trump who pulled the US out of the Paris climate accords earlier this year has previously called global warming a hoax. When asked whether Trump's personal opinion on climate change has changed at all White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said I don't think that it's changed over the last several weeks adding that she remains unsure whether the President is reconsidering the Paris deal following the hurricanes. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt told CNN in an interview about Hurricane Irma on Thursday that the time to talk about climate change isn't now saying the question was insensitive. Here's the issue Pruitt said. To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced. In addition to the administration's efforts to wipe mention of climate change from the federal agency websites it has proposed cutting EPA funding intended to assist coastal communities in preparing for the impacts of climate change as well as rolled back regulations meant to advise on building against rising sea levels.	True	False	False	True	True
The White House on Tuesday denied that it is currently considering two controversial provisions to raise revenue as part of its broad tax overhaul. Earlier in the day The Washington Post reported that the Trump administration was looking at a value added tax or carbon tax as part of its reform plan. However the newspaper stressed administration officials say the plan is not finalized and the Trump administration continues to mull alternatives. As we have said many times the President's team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the President's plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986. As of now neither a carbon tax nor a VAT are under consideration a White House spokeswoman said in a statement. Republicans have turned their attention to an overhaul of the U.S. tax system a key campaign goal after their first attempt to replace the Affordable Care Act failed. Opposition to border adjustment a House GOP provision designed to raise revenue and help to offset major tax cuts threatens to delay or trip up efforts to pass reform. A value added tax which is widely used around the world is consumption based. A carbon tax would hit emissions of greenhouse gases related to the burning of fossil fuels. The carbon tax would appear to clash with the priorities Trump has sought so far in his administration. He has taken steps to start rolling back environmental regulations on coal companies. The White House did not immediately respond to CNBC's request to comment. Watch White House says no to VAT carbon tax	True	False	False	True	True
Your lovely island of Madagascar is rich in plant and animal biodiversity yet this treasure is especially threatened by excessive deforestation from which some profit Pope Francistold authorities and diplomats on Saturday. The deterioration of that biodiversity compromises the future of the country and of the earth our common home he warned. The pope went on to enumerate his vision of the problem while also recognizing that many poor people derive their livelihood from activities that threaten the environment. As you know the last forests are menaced by forest fires poaching the unrestricted cutting down of valuable woodlands he said. Plant and animal biodiversity is endangered by contraband and illegal exportation. It is also true however that for the peoples concerned a number of activities harmful to the environment at present ensure their survival. So it is important to create jobs and activities that generate income while protecting the environment and helping people to emerge from poverty he declared. The pontiff tied together social and ecological problems insisting that the two are intimately intertwined. We are faced not with two separate crises one environmental and the other social but rather with one complex crisis which is both social and environmental he said. In a word there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earths goods not only of present generations but also of those yet to come he said. Pope Francis has made the care of the environment a central theme of his six year pontificate returning again and again to issues of ecological responsibility the dangers of carbon emissions and the scourge of climate change. In 2015 he became the first pope in history to devote an entire encyclicalletterto the topic of the environment with the publication ofLaudato SiPraised Be urging Christians to become more ecologically aware. In that text the pontiff said that the earth is beginning to look more and more like an immense pile of filth as once beautiful landscapes are now covered with rubbish. He also denounced a failure to recycle paper and other resources while calling climate change a global problem with grave implications and one of the principal challenges facing humanity in our day. Citing scientific studies the pontiff said that most global warming in recent decades is due to the great concentration of greenhouse gases carbon dioxide methane nitrogen oxides and others released mainly as a result of human activity.	True	False	False	True	False
The move fulfills part of President Donald Trump's promise to help the coal industry but will likely face court challenges from environmental groups and several states who see the rollback as detrimental to clean air and efforts to fight the climate crisis. Former President Barack Obama's plan if implemented would have prevented 3600 premature deaths a year 1700 heart attacks and 90000 asthma attacks according to analysis conducted by the EPA under his tenure. The Obama Clean Power Plan was set to reduce greenhouse gas emissions which contribute to the climate crisis by up to 32 compared to 2005 levels by the same year. We are gathered here today because the American public elected a president with a better approach EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said Wednesday. In an initial announcement about the proposal last summer the Trump EPA labeled Obama's plan as overly prescriptive and burdensome. Instead the administration says the plan rule instead empowers states promotes energy independence and facilitates economic growth and job creation the release stated. RELATED More coal fired power plants have closed under Trump than in Obama's first term Democrats are betting big on big plans for 2020 Obama's Clean Power Plan was challenged by several lawsuits from industry groups and conservative led states. In 2016 the Supreme Court blocked the regulation but some plants had already started to work on reducing pollution. The new plan which EPA is calling the Affordable Clean Energy rule is designed to boost the struggling coal industry but also likely increase carbon emissions nationwide. EPA argues that any comparison to the Obama rule is incongruous because it was never implemented. The Affordable Clean Energy rule ACE gives states the regulatory certainty they need to continue to reduce emissions and provide affordable and reliable energy for all Americans Wheeler said. Unlike the CPP the ACE rule adheres to the four corners of the Clean Air Act. EPA sets the best system of emission reductions and then states set the standards of performance. But it's unclear how much the industry can benefit as it faces competition from cheap natural gas and renewable sources. US coal consumption has plunged 39 to the lowest level in 40 years according to the US Energy Information Administration. RELATED America's renewable energy capacity is now greater than coal New York Attorney General Letitia James said her state and others will go to court. Given its clear violation of the Clean Air Act I intend to sue the EPA over this Dirty Power rule and look forward to collaborating with other states and cities in taking action to protect all Americans from the increasingly disastrous impacts of climate change James said in a statement. Connecticut is in close coordination with states across the nation and we are prepared to take legal action to block this measure the state's attorney general William Tong. There is no serious debate climate change is a severe threat and we ignore science at our own peril. At a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing last week about the direction of the EPA former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy who finalized the Clean Power Plan under Obama said she believes the proposed Affordable Clean Energy rule as well as other proposed rules the agency has made since Trump took office undermines the science and the law in how they're trying to roll back those rules. I do not dispute any administration coming in with different policies but the challenge I think we're facing is they are really changing the rules of the road and not using sound science McCarthy said. They are not looking at cost benefits. They are trying to inflate the cost and lower the benefits in order to justify rules that simply don't make sense under the law. This story is breaking and will be updated.	True	False	False	True	True
Instead the city will look for energy from renewable sources including wind and solar he decided. This is the Green New Deal Not in concept not in the future but now Garcetti said as quoted by theLos Angeles Times. He made the decision despite the fact that top staffers have argued in recent months that the gas plants are critical to keeping the lights on in the city theTimes noted. The term Green New Deal refers to a bill introduced by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D NY last week which proposes moving the entire U.S. economy to renewable energy in the next ten years. The plan also aims to provide every American with a guaranteed job with a family sustaining wage adequate family and medical leave paid vacations and retirement security to all people. The bill does not explain how those benefits will be paid for nor how the renewable energy goals will be achieved given that renewables currently provide less than 20 of the countrys energy. Environmentalists are also opposed to using one of those renewable sources hydroelectric power because of concerns about environmental damage caused by dams. California has a law already in place mandating a shift to 100 renewable sources but by 2045 not 2030. It is not clear how the state will achieve that goal. In his comments Garcetti slammed natural gas as an energy source Now is the time to start the beginning of the end of natural gas. Ironically the switch from coal to natural gas over the past decade has enabled the U.S. economy to grow while reducing emissionsover the long run. More gas for electricity has been our most effective weapon at combating climate change wrote RealClearEnergy editor Jude Clemente last year. Garcetti pledged to replace L.A.s natural gas plants with wind and solar energy but offered no plans describing how the city would do so nor whether it would be able to meet the energy needs of an expanding city. Southern California already struggles to provide electricity to consumers during heat waves when air conditioning use is at a maximum and prices soar. In addition utilities have begun shutting down power lines during high winds for fear of starting wildfires. During a natural gas leak in Porter Ranch in 2016 L.A. authorities worried that the temporary closure of one natural gas plant could lead to power outages. Nevertheless Eric Garcetti was bullish on a future without fossil fuels even without a plan to replace them. The mayor said he had challenged the citys Department of Water and Power to come up with an answer Instead of saying all the reasons why not get to a reason as to why. Garcetti will leave office in 2022. The first of the three plants to be replaced will be retired in 2024. Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor at Large at Breitbart News. He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship. He is also the co author ofHow Trump Won The Inside Story of a Revolution which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at 	True	False	False	True	False
The US arm of a European multinational oil and gas company has been approved to begin exploratory drilling in Alaskas Beaufort Sea. Environmentalists argue the Trump administration doesn't have the authority for such a move and it would endanger land and marine life. The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management BOEM gave conditional approval late Wednesday to Eni US the US subsidiary of the Italian company Eni S.p.A. to drill four exploration wells from Spy Island an artificial island created in the Beaufort Sea in Alaska. Drilling can only be conducted in the winter months and is scheduled to begin in December 2017 and end in May 2019 BOEM said. The permit is for preparatory work and does not authorize Eni to produce oil. Over the past 30 days BOEM has been carefully evaluating the EP exploration plan in accordance with federal law and regulationsincluding site specific Environmental Assessmentand conclude with a Finding of No Significant Impact BEOM said in a statement. The Obama administration banned oil and gas exploration in most of the USs Arctic Ocean and Atlantic Ocean waters last year but President Donald Trump ordered Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke in April to review the ban with the goal of opening up offshore areas for oil and gas drilling. Enis lease was due to expire at the end of 2017 according to Kristen Monsell an attorney for the Center for Biological Diversity. The Trump administration provided the public only 21 days to review and comment on the exploration plan and only 10 days to comment on scoping for environmental assessment according to Monsell. Approving this Arctic drilling plan at the 11th hour makes a dangerous project even riskier Monsell told the Guardian. An oil spill here would do incredible damage and itd be impossible to clean up. The Center for Biological Diversity Greenpeace and REDOIL a coalition of Alaska native groups sued the Trump administration on May 3 citing the risk of offshore oil and gas exploration development to local communities and wildlife. The lawsuit also argued that Trumps reversal of the ban exceeded his constitutional authority and was thus unlawful. In the lawsuit the groups argued the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas are still undeveloped and are home to a rich array of unique wildlife species including polar bears walruses whales seals other mammals birds and fish some of which are classified as threatened or endangered. Some of these animals also support thriving indigenous Alaska Native cultural and subsistence activities stated the complaint. Several Arctic mammals including polar bears and bearded seals have been listed under the ESA Endangered Species Act. The region serves as important nurseries feeding grounds and transit routes for marine animals. Seismic surveys and drilling activities could cause disruption and threaten wildlife directly. The area is remote and foreboding the complaint said. In winter the seas are covered in ice and shrouded in darkness it is prone to storms and fog and there is little infrastructure to support industrial activity with just small communities and few jet runways. The region is hundreds of miles from the nearest Coast Guard station. Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oils exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012 which led to a series of problems mistakes and violations of environmental laws. During testing in the placid waters of Puget Sound Shell destroyed its oil spill containment drone. On the way north its drillship the Noble Discoverer dragged its anchor and nearly ran aground while moored near an Alaskan island. Once at the drill site in the Chukchi Sea Shell had to undertake an emergency maneuver to relocate the drillship to avoid a large ice floe. On its way back from the Beaufort Sea it lost control of its drilling vessel the Kulluk which ran aground in the Gulf of Alaska in severe weather and had to be towed to Seattle Washington and then scrapped. The US Coast Guard cited the Noble Discoverer for numerous deficiencies after the drilling season and the EPA determined Shell had violated the Clean Air Act during its drilling efforts and fined the company 1.1 million. Its drilling contractor pleaded guilty to eight felony offenses relating to environmental pollution and safety and agreed to pay 12.2 million in fines.	True	False	False	True	False
Reuters Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. waves at an enthusiastic crowd of hometown supporters half of whom raised their hands when MSNBC host Chris Hayes a fellow Bronx native asked who was from the borough. On Tuesday four members of the Senates Democratic caucus joined every Republican in voting to block a resolution staking out what should be in future Green New Deal legislation. On Wednesday conservatives leading voice of reason on climate change published a widely shared essay that offered talking points to oppose the Green New Deal without invoking hamburger bans Stalinism or genocide. On Thursday night President Donald Trump smeared the Green New Deal as an extreme 100 trillion government takeover at a rally in Michigan leading the crowd in chants of AOC sucks. As her allies are readying primary challenges against Democrats who refuse to join the Green New Deals 100 co sponsors in Congress Ocasio Cortez said You dont necessarily have to replace everybody. Instead shes betting the increasingly visible and deadly effects of climate change will unite a popular base so vast the market fundamentalists in both parties who oppose the kind of New Deal era big government policies needed to match the scope of the climate crisis will fall in line. For years positions in the debate over mainstream climate policies ranged from hard line denial of climate change on one end to moderate market tweaks on the other. Democrats regularly introduced bills to put a price on carbon dioxide emissions through a cap and trade scheme or a carbon tax. Tax incentives for renewable energy sources like solar and wind enjoyed bipartisan support yet so too did subsidies for oil and gas production. Then in October United Nations scientists forecast average temperatures to increase at least 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit a catastrophic spike likely to cost 54 trillion in damage and countless lives unless world governments took unprecedented measures to halve global emissions over the next decade. A month later a congressionally mandated report by 13 federal agencies confirmed the research. The findings made clear that market fixes alone might have worked in the 1970s when scientists first understood the climate impacts of burning fossil fuels but now its too late. That hasnt helped tamp down opposition from powerful building trades unions that rely on the pipeline and coal train industries for lucrative jobs. Countering the fossil fuel industrys appeal to organized labor is an uphill battle for Green New Deal advocates. Very few renewable energy jobs are unionized and the steady march of right to work laws in red states over the past decade makes it difficult to envision a future in which new industries enjoy the same labor precedents as older ones. Ocasio Cortez said that was one reason the Green New Deal movement could not abandon its class politics to secure support from avowedly pro business conservatives. We cannot allow for the fossil fuel jobs to be better more dignified and higher waged with stronger labor support behind them than new energy jobs she said. What Im tired of is us worrying more about the future of fossil fuels than worry about the future of fossil fuel workers. On Monday Sen. Lamar Alexander R Tenn. cribbed the Green New Deals rhetoric harkening to a World War II level mobilization effort when he proposed a New Manhattan Project for Clean Energy that he said would double federal funding for energy research and implement a five year plan to create new sources of cheap clean energy. That same week Rep. Matt Gaetz R Fla. a loyal Trump ally drafted a nonbinding resolution staking out a Green Real Deal that would acknowledge the threat climate change poses to human health and safety in communities across the United States. We have this idea that left ideas are moving and shaking inside the political atmosphere right now. Thats true. But theyre left in terms of Washington. But in terms of the American people theyre centrist ideas. Heather McGhee senior fellow at the progressive think tank Demos A decade of disputation is followed now by this incredible uptick of Republicans looking around for solutions former Rep. Bob Inglis R S.C. whose support for climate action led to his ouster in a primary challenge in 2010 said at the event where he was the lone Republican. Weve now seen the whites of its eyes. Its here now so its hard to deny.	False	False	False	False	False
NEW YORK Over the past two yearscorporate giants have become some of the loudest voices calling for climate change action. Automakers that once killed the electric car are racing to roll outzero emissions rivals to Tesla. Even Exxon Mobil Corp. the oil behemoth that spent decades bankrolling a Big Tobacco style campaign to discredit global warming has named a climate scientist to its board. The site fits comfortably into Bloombergs stable of products anchored by its lucrative data terminal business. In December 2015 just before 195 countries reached the historic emissions cutting deal known as the Paris Agreement Bloomberg published its Carbon Clock featuring a carbon dioxide tracker overlaid on satellite images of the Earth. The company owns Bloomberg New Energy Finance a data firm dedicated to the energy industry. Michael Bloomberg who returned to his namesake company after his third term as New York City mayor is an outspoken climate advocate who this week published a book with former Sierra Club chief Carl Pope on how cities and businesses can lead energy reform. For the launch the site will include a feature on how communities in South Florida are coping with rising waters a short animated video series on heat extreme weather and the cost of carbon and a multi part graphic on Russias growing influence in the fast warming Arctic. Climate Changed gives Bloomberg a leg up on The Wall Street Journal arguably its chief competitor in the market for prestige journalism. The Rupert Murdoch owned newspapers hard line conservativismappears to have bled over from the opinion pages to the news section. A study published in 2015 by researchers at Rutgers University the University of Michigan and the University of Oslo found that from 2006 to 2011 the Journals news reporting rarely mentionedthreats or effects of climate change compared with the countrys other leading broadsheet newspapers. But the new Bloomberg site isnt looking to make a political splash necessarily.Sure President Donald Trump has dismissed climate change as a Chinese hoax and has made gutting environmental policies a cornerstone of his agenda since entering the White House. And yes his budget director called efforts to mitigate or halt climate change a waste of your money. But at Bloomberg raw hard data trumps political rhetoric and the editors there dont buy the billionaire presidents bombast. There is a difference between Trump the politician and Trump the investor Jared Sandberg senior executive editor in Bloombergs digital division told HuffPost. Trump is already building a wall around his seaside Irish golf resort Sandberg noted a sign the risk of rising sea levels is too high to ignore. Its the mother of all risk Sandberg added. If you have intelligence agencies around the world identifying climate change as one of the great destabilizing forces theres a massive risk to contend with for any business and any investor behind it. Climate Changed wont be focused on debunking fringe voices the sort that might show on the pages of the far right news site Breitbart who seek to undermine climate science by depicting it as some kind of conspiracy. Comparing what people say to data then stepping out of the room is sort of the best thing journalists can do Roston said. We dont have a social mission other than transparency and fact checking. Throughout the economy fossil fuels being only the most obvious example new information has come to light that challenges whether historic price levels of these things are appropriate given what weve learned about their impact on society Roston said. He admitted in a media environment that rewards sensationalism and factual manipulation the approach may seem a bit bland. Were not going to win the internet by going out and saying everybody is doing it wrong its just a pricing story. But from a Bloomberg perspective its helpful for me to think of in terms of repricing events. The site has yet to lock down advertisers to sponsor the launch. But it shouldnt have much trouble finding bidders. Nearly every company in the SP 500 now issues regular reports on sustainability efforts. The business community absolutely demands this the investor community demands this Sandberg said. You dont go through the quarterly quarterly results from Coke Levis or anyone else and not come away thinking that they dont have concerns over limited resources like water. The question isnt why now its why havent we all agreed to do this sooner Sandberg added. Weve always had this kind of coverage but I think its high time we do something better to admire it organize it and make it easier for people to discover.	True	True	False	True	True
Chennai is out of water all 4 reservoirs are dry. More than 8.5 million live in greater Chennai so its about the population of greater San Francisco. An India government think tank predicts that by 2030 600 million Indians wont have sufficient drinking water. Its kind of amazing that they didnt see this coming long ago and plan better. And even 2030 wouldnt help right now which is what is needed. Rain is the solution but thats not exactly a sure thing when you are in the middle of a historic drought. Little that can be done right now except to keep on hauling water in from wherever they can. Many more will follow in part because people consider water to be a gift from God. People of India consume lots of water. If the price of water was higher they would consume less and there would be money available to search for new sources of water. The problem is when people think a resource is free and so plentiful that it can never run out that you get situations where it does run out. Clean water has a value. People should be paying what it costs to create and conserve or store fresh water. Regarding the price of water. Pricing will now have to include the risk of drought. The risk of drought is going up rapidly all over the world. I expect that India will need to invest in sea water desalination. That isnt cheap but whatever it costs those costs have to be passed on to the consumers. The rain and drought situation in India is grim. Most of the Indian cities towns and villages are reeling under severe water crisis. A tragedy is unfolding in Maharashtra and a money spinning racket for Tanker owners. Drought in more than forth of Maharashtra. Crores of rupees of the tax payers money will be used for tankers that will cause incredible pollution in the rural areas.Creation of many lakes all over the country to catch and store rain water is a primary objective. Water balancing between various rivers the so called River Linking Project is the second alternative. Once water is available in every village the distribution to houses can be taken up as the third step. Traditional systems perhaps might have to be tweeked a little according to the needs and changing times but there is so much to learn from those who came before us. Village Talab system is one example. When pond of one village was overflowed water was released for next village on slopes. Rainwater was harvested at home. In Junagadh Ahmedabad Cambay cities. I am not sure whether anyone in Tamil Nadu even knows it had a traditional water harvesting system. Similarly Odishas traditional Kutta and Munda water harvesting system by an NGO some decades back but I doubt if any university in Odisha is working on it or the State government is trying to revive the dying wisdom. This is true for all other states barring Karnataka which is trying to bring back the Kalyani water harvesting structures. Reviving traditional water bodies and harvesting systems has been talked for quite sometime but no one seems interested. The largest desalination plant in South Asia is at Chennai one of two there. It produces 36.5 million cubic metersyear. Thats 9.6 billion US gallons. Israel gets the majority of its drinking water from desalination. It has the worlds largest plant at Hadera producing 127 cubic meters from salt water plus it looks like it has larger plants as well. That 33.5 billion gallons. Chennai has a large desalination plant and a smaller one. Their policies are insufficient in many ways. Like what is water used for etc. Regulations on ground water pumping etc. I dont know specifics but do know that if a city this size runs out of water several people didnt do their jobs. Areas that are dry are becoming drier and those that are wet are getting more rain. But some of them have drier soil due to increased temperatures. The entire region from Syria to Iran has been suffering a drought that has been going on for about 15 years. At some point somebody has to call a spade a spade and accept the fact that the drought is the new normal. Seeding clouds can only bring as much rain as there is water in the atmosphere. Global climate change is in turn changing the distribution of where water is accumulating. At the least we must improve our water distribution systems to mitigate the problem. Seeding is only a short term solution. Build nuclear and desalinate Although there is no way nuclear can be added fast enough to by itself desalinate drinking water for 600 million by 2030. And India hasnt signed the nuclear non proliferation treaty. What are the chances India uses geoengineering? The public no tests no international treaties that will stop it. Geoengineering is cheap and not rocket science. A recent study indicates that almost nowhere will suffer under geoengineering. More studies are needed. The most likely is distributing air pollution in the stratosphere.I doubt that India will concern itself with niceties of international cooperation. Or whichever country leads the way. Thats why there has been a campaign for more than a decade test and make treaties. But we were busy.	False	True	False	True	False
The Amazon rainforest is on fire and the consensus is that Brazils far right populist leader Jair Bolsonaro is to blame. Bolsonaro who took office in January and has been referred to as Captain Chainsaw gutted funding for agencies protecting the massive rainforest essentially giving wink and nudge approval for illegal loggers to do their thing. Fire is used as a tool for clearing Amazon land for ranching and the more trees are cut down the more vulnerable the rainforest is to wildfires. There have been almost twice as many fires detected in 2019 so far as there were in the entirety of 2018. Its hard to overstate how threatening this policy is to the climate. The Amazon is the worlds largest rainforest its trees scrub the Earth of a significant amount of CO2 and have captured a huge amount of carbon and methane within their branches and roots. If you lose the trees a lot of greenhouse gases get released and it becomes harder to capture emissions from other sources. Continued fires and clear cutting in the Amazon could cripple the fight against climate change. All of this goes to underscore an important and poorly understood point The wave of right wing populism sweeping the world is not only dangerous for the countries who succumb to it or even to immigrants wishing to move to those nations. Its a fundamental threat to progress against climate change and thus the entirety of the human race. Bolsonaro has been dubbed the Trump of the Tropics a far right firebrand who shares the American presidents hostility to democracy and penchant for saying extremely offensive things about women and minorities. The similarities clearly extend to climate policy Trump famously labeled climate change a Chinese hoax pulled out of the Paris agreement on climate change and recently presented a carbon regulation plan that could actually increase emissions. The American and Brazilian leaders are particularly aggressive on the issue but theyre hardly alone among Western right wingers. A February report from the German Adelphi Institute an environmental think tank found that 18 out of the 21 largest European far right parties are either generally indifferent to climate action or outright oppose it. Nigel Farage the leader of Britains Brexit party recently called climate change a scam during an interview with conspiracy theorist Alex Jones. Germanys Alternatives for Deutschland AfD claims in its most recent electoral platform that CO2 is not a pollutant but an indispensable component of all life. By contrast the centrist and left parties in these countries were prior to the populist wave of the past few years doing a markedly better job on addressing climate change not perfect or sufficient mind you but comparatively much better than what the far right parties want. Between 2003 2011 a left wing Brazilian government managed to cut Amazon deforestation rates by 80 percent. Obama massively boosted the American renewables industry via the 2009 stimulus helped negotiate the Paris Climate Accord and implemented the Clean Power Plan to cut emissions from US power plants. In 2005 the EU put in place the worlds first major emissions permit and trading system the European Union Emissions Trading System or EU ETS. So theres a clear contrast between the right wing populists on the one hand and their leading opponents on the other. Right wing populism today centers on a particular kind of chauvinistic nationalism an America First style obsession with the importance of their typically ethnically defined home nation and its independence from international institutions. European populists hate the European Union with its open borders approach to immigration and transnational economic regulations both Trump and Bolsonaro have insulted international institutions and withdrawn from global agreements. This brand of populism poses a particular challenge for the effort against climate change. Its a global issue that no one country can solve on its own it requires collective action negotiated through some forum like the Paris Climate Agreement. Its a paradigmatic example of the limits of nationalism and the need for organizations like the UN and EU. You cant propose an effective solution to a transnational problem through a narrowly nationalist framework and yet the nationalists are here attacking both climate policies in their own country and the very idea of global governance itself. This is a crucial time a recent UN report claims we have 11 years to prevent irreversible damage from climate change. Large population centers like the United States Brazil and the EU as a bloc are responsible for a major chunk of emissions. Its especially important that wealthy countries take the lead on the issue. Poorer countries are less likely to act when they think theyre unfairly bearing the burden of a problem kickstarted by Western industrial development. Backsliding in the US and Europe hurts climate action everywhere. Right wing populists are often framed as a threat to Western democracy and they certainly are that. But the stakes are even bigger than they appear at first glance Its not just the survival of Western democracy thats at stake but the planet itself.	True	False	False	True	True
Rose Strauss apparently isnt showing favoritism in the race for Pennsylvania governor at least when it comes to asking candidates about climate change. The 18 year old activist made a name for herself beyond the Keystone State last month when she questioned Republican gubernatorial nominee Scott Wagner at a town hall on what she said was his lack of action on climate change and donations he received from the fossil fuel industry. And why did Strauss win the internet that day? Well in a way she has Wagner to thank for that as he responded by calling Strauss a little young and naive on video which subsequently went viral. Wagner also asked the Glenside crowd Are we here to elect a governor or are we here to elect a scientist? Wagner in 2017 said climate change is likely occurring but perhaps because we have more people. You know humans have warm bodies. So is heat coming off? And his campaign has received163750 from the oil and gas industry according to Vote Smart a nonprofit political watch dog organization the York Dispatch said. John Fetterman the running mate for Democratic Gov. Tom Wolf ripped Wagner on Twitter over his comments toward Strauss. He also used a Young and Naive slogan for 25 T shirts the York Daily Record reported while Wolfs campaign announced free limited edition stickers using the phrase It turns out all the T shirts and stickers in the world immortalizing Wagners words to her could not impede Strauss from turning her confrontation Wolfs way as she and activists tried to intercept the governor as he walked into an event last week the Daily Record said. Tom Wolf! Its Rose Strauss! Its Rose Strauss Tom Wolf! shes heard shouting on video. Im the girl whos young and naive! Strauss then yelled a question at Wolf about the funds his campaign got from the fossil fuel industry 98000 during the 2018 election cycle according to Follow the Money. Strauss said Sunrise Movement Downingtown has twice reached out to Joseph Hill Wolfs deputy campaign manager and political director to request a meeting but has yet to receive a response the Daily Record reported. He has shown support for the young and naive voters Strauss told the paper adding that while Wolf has supported us verbally the governor hasnt committed to action on things we care about like climate change. Wolfs campaign declined to say if hell meet with Strauss and other activists but offered the following statement to the Daily Record Governor Wolf is committed to protecting and preserving the environment. One of his first acts as governor was to sign an executive order reinstating the moratorium on new leases for drilling in state parks and forests and he has been fighting efforts by Republicans in Washington to cut EPA funding. Governor Wolf worked across party lines with the state legislature which is heavily Republican to pass the Chapter 78a Environmental Protection Performance Standards. This bipartisan agreement modernizes and strengthens environmental protections at oil and gas sites in Pennsylvania. He also announced a nation leading strategy to reduce emissions of methane. Governor Wolf has met with environmentalists throughout the state to discuss ways they could work together to combat climate change and strengthen statewide regulations to ensure the protection of public health safety and the environment. He will continue to engage the environmental community throughout the commonwealth to ensure that their voices are heard. Scott is having town halls to articulate his positions on the issues to people of all demographics and backgrounds Wagner campaign spokesman Andrew Romeo told TheBlaze on Wednesday. And while some might disagree with him on a policy approach to an issue which is what happened at the Montgomery County Town Hall he will continue to hold similar events for the remainder of the campaign. If voters want to know Scotts position on an issue they wont have to ambush him outside an event just to get a hold of him they can come ask him their questions in person. He certainly wont bury his head and keep walking. Wagner has since clarified his young and naive comment noting in a Sunday town hall that he didnt believe it was mean and that Im 62 years old and the young lady asking the question was 18. I have a little more experience than she does the Daily Record reported. And that wasnt meant to insult her in any way.	True	False	True	True	False
The Magic School Bus is back in the new Netflix series The Magic School Bus Rides Again! Overall it's still a nice fun 13 episode series like we remember from when we were kids but with some left turns. There is a pretty predictable take on climate change propaganda for little kids but that wasn't the worst. That dubious honor goes to the episode that teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources. In the show Miss Frizzle takes her class on educational field trips with the help of a magical school bus that allow them to learn about things like magnets allergies and states of matter. In the original series the kids were taught by Miss Valerie Felicity Frizzle Lily Tomlin who is now Professor Frizzle. She hands the charge of her classroom over to her sister Miss Fiona Frizzle voiced by Saturday Night Live's Kate McKinnon. Most of the episodes are innocuous enough. The kids have a scientific question of some kind in the classroom and Miss Frizzle takes them to the Magic School Bus where an incredible field trip helps them to understand. This might be a trip to discover how different animals blend into their surroundings to hide from predators how the brain coordinates different parts of the body or what lies deep under the sea. But episode 10 The Tales Glaciers Tell is the first of two questionable episodes. Miss Frizzle's student Dorothy Ann also known as D.A. has been asked to join her storyteller parents in telling a story of her own for a crowd. However she's more into data than storytelling so the kids take a trip to a glacier allowing her to tell the story of you guessed it climate change which is met with a standing ovation by the audience. Really? This is what kids are getting excited about? I doubt it. Of course conserving energy is a good thing and we should be kind to the earth but this climate change hysteria is taking over. Usually somebody will say that 97 percent of climate scientists agree that humans are causing global warming and I was surprised that figure didn't come up in this episode. Could it be that they know how easily debunked that number is? Given the way Dorothy Ann presented man made climate change as fact I doubt it. This issue tends to play incredibly well in the mainstream media as they use climate change as the universal bad guy so I'm sure there were plenty of parents who actually thought this episode was a good idea. I find it hard to believe any parents were happy about this next one though. Episode 12 Monster Power teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources.Albert one of the students has seen a movie in which the evil monster loves pollution and is coming for us next for what we've done to this planet! With the class camping in the woods Miss Frizzle and the other students help him come up with clean energy alternatives wind water etc so they won't be eaten. Instead Miss Frizzle could tell him that monsters aren't real but I guess that didn't occur to her. While it makes sense to teach kids the science of pollution and about all kinds of energy I wouldn't have minded some talk about oil in the dinosaur episode to be honest why would they tell kids that a monster will eat them for using the wrong energy source? I may not have the teaching credentials of Miss Frizzle but I'm pretty sure that's not scientifically accurate.They must really hate fossil fuels as much as their friends on the left. Keeping in mind that the TV Y rating for this series means it's for kids 2 6 I'm sure there are going to be some parents pretty irked at bedtime when kids are scared of the blot monster. Overall this is a cute series and fun bit of nostalgia for those of us who enjoyed the original books or TV series as kids but I could have done without the climate change propaganda and telling kids that traditional energy sources attract monsters is way over the top. Can't kids just learn without an anti scientific social agenda?	True	False	False	False	False
Julin Castro the first 2020 Democratic presidential candidate at the CNN climate town hall set the tone early in the night by giving a shout out to Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington the self professed climate candidate whose six part plan has been adopted by several other candidates since he dropped out of the race last month. Calling climate change an existential threat a phrase that is sure to come up several more times tonight Mr. Castro said his first move as president would be to rejoin the Paris Climate Accord. The United States hasnt actually withdrawn from the global climate change agreement and legally cannot until November 2020 but President Trump has vowed to do so. Still Mr. Castro said its actually what comes next that is most important saying he would impose a fee on carbon pollution enact an executive order prohibiting fossil fuel exploration and development on public lands and spend 10 trillion over 10 years to reach net zero emissions by 2045. The former secretary for Housing and Urban Development and mayor of San Antonio drew on his experience working with families who had lost their homes to flooding and called for subsidizing the National Flood Insurance Program. An activist from the Sunrise Movement a liberal environmental group asked Mr. Castro why he should be trusted to move the country away from fossil fuels when he supported fracking. Shes right. When I was mayor of San Antonio I did believe that there were opportunities to be had with fracking that was going on in South Texas. But he said at the time natural gas was described as a bridge fuel to help wean the country off coal and toward cleaner fuels. Were coming to the end of the bridge Mr. Castro said. He said while he isnt calling for an immediate national ban on fracking he supports local communities that do so and called for moving to cleaner sources. Mr. Castro won some of his strongest applause when he leaned into his rsum as the nations housing chief and connected his work with the need to protect low income communities from environmental damages. He recounted discovering that 70 percent of subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site saying Thats the environmental injustice of racism that were dealing with.	True	False	False	False	True
As levels of greenhouse gases reach a new record concerns are growing about the role of China in global warming. For years the increase in the number of Chinese coal fired power stations has been criticised. Now environmental groups say China is also backing dozens of coal projects far beyond its borders. Coal is the most damaging of the fossil fuels because of the quantity of carbon dioxide it releases when it's burned. Last year the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere reached its highest level for the past 3 5 million years according to the latest research by the UN's weather agency the World Meteorological Organisation WMO. And last month the UN's climate science panel said that coal must be phased out by 2050 if the world is to have any chance of limiting the rise in temperatures. The Chinese supported coal projects are under way or planned as far afield as South America Africa southeast Asia and the Balkans. Contracts and financing for these facilities are often not fully transparent but campaign groups including Bankwatch have tried to keep track. You cannot be a world leader in curbing air pollution and at the same time the world's biggest financier of overseas coal power plants the group's energy coordinator Ioana Ciuta told the BBC. According to Ms Ciuta efforts to tackle the dirty air of Chinese cities have led many power companies to limit their ambitions for coal fired power stations in China itself and to target their technology and labour overseas instead. By having China invest in over 60 countries along the Belt and Road Initiative it's perpetuating a source of pollution that has been demonstrated to be harmful not just to the climate but also to economies she said. In Serbia one of the country's largest coal fired power stations is being expanded with the help of a loan from a Chinese bank and with the work being led by one of China's largest construction companies. An hour's drive east of the capital Belgrade in the coal rich Danube valley construction has already started at the site known as Kostolac B3. An existing power station towers over the rolling landscape a steady stream of pollution twisting from a massive smokestack and conveyor belts ferry coal from a nearby open cast mine at Drmno. The power station is run by the national Serbian electricity company EPS which provides about 70 of the country's power by burning coal the rest comes from hydro electric schemes. Now under a 715m 560m contract agreed by the Serbian government and Chinese President Xi Jinping an extra unit is being added which will bring 350MW of additional capacity with the latest super critical technology. When we visit we catch a brief glimpse of a group of Chinese workers wearing hard hats on their way from the construction site to a vast set of accommodation blocks by next year some 1500 Chinese staff will be here. Safety signs and notice boards are written in Serbian and Chinese. Equipment and shipping containers carry Chinese labels. I ask the EPS official running the project Zeljko Lazovic what he feels about such a large and important venture being in the hands of Chinese engineers and workers. In the next few months a lot of Chinese will come here and this will be a big challenge he says. With Chinese workers and Serbian workers at the beginning we had some cultural problems but we have overcome them and there is now very good cooperation. When asked about the environmental cost of the new project Mr Lazovic insisted it would meet all the EU's standards on pollution by dust nitrogen dioxide and sulphur. However the new unit will not be fitted with any carbon capture technology so it will fit into a pattern of Chinese backed projects that will add to carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere. Christine Shearer is an analyst with the group CoalSwarm which tracks coal developments and she is scathing about the implications. These projects are not compatible with limiting global warming to 1.5C or 2C she said referring to the two targets of the Paris Agreement on climate change. She says that Chinese financial institutions are filling a gap left by Western banks and agencies deciding to limit their involvement in coal. These projects if completed will lock the countries into high carbon emitting infrastructure and volatile coal imports precisely at a time when prices for clean energy are starting to fall below that of coal power. We tried to contact the Export Import Bank of China which is providing the loan and the China Machinery Engineering Corporation which is leading the construction but did not hear back. For the Serbian power company EPS the attraction of a local supply of coal has combined with a cheap Chinese loan and the prospects of valuable exports of electricity. About 3500 jobs depend on the Kostolac complex but some local people have become increasingly outspoken about the pollution in the area. Momir Savic showed me how the conveyor belts carrying coal run close to the villages and he fears a further expansion of the operation. The quality of our air and water is very poor. We cannot grow fruit and vegetables. There is also a lot of noise. All this affects the health of people living here many of whom have respiratory diseases he said. EPS says it is spending hundreds of millions of euros on environmental protection but its track record clearly does not inspire trust. Pera Markovic a lawyer with Cekor an environmental group is critical of the company's failure to limit pollution in the local area. But he concedes that Serbia is heavily dependent on coal for its power. For how long? Decades Mr Markovic says. That's likely to be the same in many other countries too whatever climate scientists say is needed.	False	False	False	True	True
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC broke a two year partisan deadlock Thursday night to approve a liquefied natural gas LNG export terminal in Louisiana. Top Department of Energy DOE officials said this was a major breakthrough that will alleviate a growing problem for U.S. energy producers a lack of export infrastructure. We have been promoting US energy around the world and todays decision by the FERC is a very important one DOE Deputy Secretary Dan Brouillette told The Daily Caller News Foundation in an interview.RELATED US Oil Output Hits 12 Million Barrel A Day Milestone Way Ahead Of Schedule The Calcasieu Pass LNG export terminal is the first such project to get FERC approval in two years. Republican FERC commissioners Neil Chatterjee the chairman and Bernard McNamee worked with Democrat Cheryl LaFleur to hash out an agreement to get her support. Chatterjee and McNamee needed LaFleurs vote to approve Calcasieu Pass which they secured after working out a new approach to account for greenhouse gas emissions from the export facility. This is a tremendous breakthrough DOE Under Secretary of Energy Mark Menezes told TheDCNF. We hope it will serve as an analytical template going forward. Once complete Calcasieu Pass terminal will export up 12 million metric tons of LNG a year. Brouillette said the project already has buyers including in Europe waiting for American natural gas. Hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling spurred an oil and natural gas boom over the past decade making the U.S. the worlds top hydrocarbon producer. However a limiting factor on oil and gas is the lack of export terminals and pipelines. Menezes said breaking FERCs deadlock was also an important step in helping DOE improve its own LNG terminal approval process including making sure theres no duplicative reviews. Getting approval to build an LNG export terminal is a long complicated process that requires approval from multiple agencies. FERC currently has a backlog of a dozen LNG projects awaiting approval.RELATED Obama EPA Regulations Blamed For Closure Of 100 Year Old Coal Plant The Trump administration has been pushing for speedier approvals for LNG terminals but FERC has been holding up the process amid pressure from environmental groups to factor global warming into its approval process. LaFleur for example called on FERC to factor in estimates like the controversial social cost of carbon for a cost benefit analysis. However LaFleur agreed to compromise with her Republican colleagues. FERCs other Democratic commissioner Richard Glick opposed the terminalarguinghis colleagues were deliberately ignoring the consequences that its actions have for climate change. The commissions environmental review of Calcasieu Pass found the facility would emit roughly 3.9 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions a year about 0.07 percent of total U.S. emissions. Brouillette argued that while an individual LNG export terminal would emit greenhouse gases it would help lower global emissions because countries want gas as an alternative to coal. To the extent that LNG is displacing coal around the world we think the impact is going to be positive Brouillette said. Brouillette also stressed the geopolitical implications of LNG exports and the role energy could play in President Donald Trumps foreign policy. These are decisions that impact the presidents ability to make foreign policy decisions Brouillette told TheDCNF. We get to assist Poland we get to assist Lithuania we get to assist the Baltic states. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	True	False	False	True
Yahoo News reported Saturday that temperatures in Great Britain could reach as low as 14C with snow event after snow event expected to hit various parts of the territory. Forecasters expect the lasting cold spell to begin sometime this month and to continue at least through March. October is now looking like it will turn out to be colder than average with more of a chance of something wintery setting in through the second half of the month according to Exacta Weather forecaster James Madden. There is a strong chance of widespread frosts and the chance of snowfall which will set the scene for November Madden said. This will pave the way for what is shaping up to be a colder than average winter with some extreme cold weather events. Snow events have been few and far between in recent years but this winter is looking favourable to bring snow event after snow event as weather systems from the Atlantic clash with cold stagnated air over the UK he said. Current sea temperatures combined with a weather system over the north Atlantic suggest that a freezing vortex of Arctic air could hit the country later this month Yahoos Victoria Bell reported. The system will presumably descend from the North Pole ushering in a swath of low pressure spanning from Greenland to the northwest coast of Ireland. In the estimation of some meteorologists the 2019 2020 cold spell will rival the bitter winter of 1963 believed to have been the coldest in 200 years. Other weather watchers are less confident that this winter will be a record breaker. Mark Saunders for example Professor of Climate Prediction at UCL claims that there is only a 57 percent probability that this winter will be colder than last years. Late last month a group of over 500 scientists and climate professionals sent a European Climate Declaration to the Secretary General of the United Nations appealing for an open debate on climate change. Climate science should be less political while climate policies should be more scientific the declaration stated. Scientists should openly address the uncertainties and exaggerations in their predictions of global warming while politicians should dispassionately count the real benefits as well as the imagined costs of adaptation to global warming and the real costs as well as the imagined benefits of mitigation. There is no statistical evidence that global warming is intensifying hurricanes floods droughts and suchlike natural disasters or making them more frequent they continued. The declarations signers insisted that public policy must respect scientific and economic realities and not just reflect the most fashionable trend of the day. There is no climate emergency. Therefore there is no cause for panic and alarm they noted. We strongly oppose the harmful and unrealistic net zero CO2 policy proposed for 2050. No matter what the winter shapes up to be there is a 100 percent probability that climate alarmists will find some way to attribute the weather to global warming and carbon dioxide emissions.	True	True	True	True	True
Energy Secretary Rick Perry veering from the Trump administration message on climate change told CNBC on Wednesday he believes that human activity does play a role. I'm on the record as saying the climate is changing. Man it's been changing forever. Where have you been? Perry said in a Squawk Box interview when pressed on what causes climate change. The climate is changing. Are we part of the reason? Yeah it is. I'll let people debate on who's the bigger problem here. Perry did not quantify whether man made greenhouse gases associated with climate change such as carbon dioxide emissions from burning gasoline and coal or methane releases from natural gas and oil production are the main problem or even whether they're causing the immediate and growing crisis that Democrats contend. However Perry did say that it's still worth developing zero emissions technology and that the Trump administration has made great strides in cleaner energy solutions. We're going to address the climate. It makes sense for us to have policies that reduce emissions that reduce the pollutants that are in the air to reduce the particles that cause massive health problems around the world he said. Common sense tells you bring the cleaner burning fuels bring the things that bring the emissions down. That's just common sense. Perry said the administration is reducing emissions claiming without evidence or specificity that countries in the Paris climate agreement with their hair on fire when President Donald Trump announced his intention to pull out two years ago are not doing as much as the U.S. Trump has repeatedly over the years expressed skepticism about the role humans play in climate change. In 2017 then Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt told CNBC he does not believe carbon dioxide is a primary contributor. On Monday Trump talked about his administration's environmental record saying America can lead the world in fighting pollution at the same time it promotes fossil fuels. Since taking office Trump has dismantled scores of environmental rules. The U.S. has become the world's biggest oil and gas producer over the last couple of years thanks mainly to a technology led drilling boom. During the first round of the second Democratic presidential debate on Tuesday evening the 2020 hopefuls on the stage all agreed on the need to urgently address climate change but clashed over how to do it. They also talked about their own proposals to curb what they see as the man made causes as well as the merits of the Green New Deal unveiled in February by Democrats New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey.	True	False	False	True	True
DETROIT Theresa Landrum survived her battle with cancer. But her parents didnt. Neither did at least 10 other people who lived on her block. Such is life and death in the 48217 Michigans most polluted ZIP code home to automotive plants the states only oil refinery and more than 8200 mostly working class African Americans. On Tuesday Landrum a retired General Motors factory worker marched downtown with as many as 2000 fellow Detroiters to the steps of the Fox Theatre where 10 Democratic presidential hopefuls were scheduled to face off in thesecond round of primary debates. The protest marked one of the most confrontational demands for a Green New Deal in months as local groups took up the mantle from national climate campaigners which have shifted their efforts to focus on demanding a climate only Democratic primary debate. Amid the gleaming towers of automotive giants whose vehicles now spew the majority of Americas climate changing gases the demonstrators called for a future in which the health of the planet and its people guides industrial planning andin which the Motor City sheds its association with combustion engines. We are being robbed and pillaged by industry Landrum said her voice rising to a preachers righteous crescendo. Then you know what we get? A few job promises and they get to pollute as much as they want. The three word slogan surged into Americas political lexicon last November when activists with the youth led Sunrise Movement occupied then incoming House Speaker Nancy Pelosis office demanding Democrats champion climate policy that actually matches the scope of the crisis. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. took heed. In February she and Sen. Ed Markey D Mass. introduced a resolution that outlined the core tenets of a Green New Deal. Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warrens growing inventory of policy proposals includes plans to decarbonize the military by 2030 halt fossil fuel leasing on public lands and put new restrictions on businesses ability to influence lawmakers. California Sen. Kamala Harris the only candidate to bring up the Green New Deal in the first round of debates co sponsored a climate justice bill with Ocasio Cortez this week that lays the groundwork for federal climate spending to benefit poor minority communities who disproportionately suffer the impacts of pollution. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders who has yet to release a comprehensive climate plan has positioned himself as the standard bearer of former President Franklin D. Roosevelts economic ideals and a vocal proponent of the Green New Deal movement. Climate change received a combined 15 minutes of airtime during last months debates in Miami woefully insufficient given the scope of the crisis but significant progress for an issue that was virtually ignored in the 2016 election. But because the events were held in a city threatened by rising sea levels debate questions focused on the magnitude of the global warming crisis and the risks posed by runaway emissions. The Frontline Detroit Coalition the alliance of a dozen local environmental groups and unions who organized Tuesdays march struck a markedly different tone. If Miami is a city in need of salvation from rising seas Detroit in their vision could be the savior. Ahead of the march musicians and activists took a makeshift stage in Cass Park a historic green space where last months record heatwave left the grass crisp and brown and led crowds chanting build a new economy and invest in our community. The Green New Deal is a platform an empty box. Its not going to be fully ready until it begins to reflect the kind of environmental and energy issues that our people are concerned about said Darryl Jordan 65 the co director of the East Michigan Environmental Action Council. Were not in a state where the differences between Democrats and Republicans are that radical. If there is poetry in demanding a Green New Deal in the city that birthed the automotive age the citys union legacy gives the call real teeth. Powerful construction unions that depend on the fossil fuel industry for lucrative jobs have publicly opposed the Green New Deal though the movement has garnered growing labor support including an official endorsement from the Service Employees International Union last month.	True	False	False	True	True
The idea started to gain traction after a fisherman spoke to Warren at the town hall event expressing concern the Green New Deal does not go far enough to address problems associated with the oceans. My oyster farm was destroyed by two hurricanes. Now warming waters and acidification are killing seed coast to coast and reducing yields. Those of us that work on the water we need climate solutions and we need them now the man said. The trouble is is the Green New Deal only mentions our oceans one time. This is despite the fact that our seas soak up more than 25 percent of the worlds carbon. So whats your plan for a Blue New Deal for those of us working on the oceans? he asked. Warren immediately embraced the idea of a Blue New Deal. I think hes got it exactly right. We need a Blue New Deal as well she continued telling the audience about her conversations with commercial fishermen who say the warming waters are making their jobs more difficult. I talk to folks who fish commercially off our shores down by New Bedford up by Gloucester. You know what they tell me? They keep pulling stuff up that they dont even know what it is. And so what do they do? I talked to one who said so Id call my brother in law who fishes commercially off the coast of Florida because I send him pictures and he says oh yeah we used to catch those down here. But now theyve moved to Boston and to the waters around Massachusetts and New England. So heres what really scares me. This isnt slowing down. Its speeding up. Where are they going next? And what are we going to be left with? We count on our oceans for life not just for food but what it means in our entire climate. You want to call it a Blue New Deal count me in. But part of getting the carbon out of the air out of the water out of the soil is also about the change in whats happening in our oceans these big dead patches now and the patches of trash. However Warren did not issue a specifics for a Blue New Deal proposal Which goes back to a point I was making earlier and that is we cant just think about cleaning up the United States of America. We cannot think about from the East Coast to the West Coast plus Hawaii and Alaska. We cant just think from the Canadian border down to the border with Mexico. We have to think about the whole world. And thats why many of my plans intersect with our global opportunities and responsibilities. Like I said lots of plans elizabethwarren.comclimate. Because weve got to be working on all fronts. Despite Warrens lack of details Democrats seem to be on board with the concept. Were trying to step into this void because most of the climate plans are really focused on the big manufacturing and industrial emitters and the big terrestrial sources of pollution said Jason Scorse director of the Center for the Blue Economy at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies and any early crafter of the Blue New Deal approach. Thats great and they should do this but there is this overlooked ocean component that can play a big role in any eventual climate solution. The ocean is a huge part of the climate system that people dont talk about and it could be part of the solution because the coastal ecosystem holds more carbon said Ayana Johnson a marine biologist and founder of Ocean Collectiv. Its not green versus blue its just that the ocean has a huge part to play in the climate system. Coasts face unbelievable change. Its not all related to climate and carbon but those are amplifying and accelerating those changes at every level from coastal infrastructure to fishery conservation said Brad Warren executive director at the National Fisheries Conservation Center. Scorse argues the U.S. needs to invest in aquaculture growing underwater plants that can capture carbon and protect against storm surges along with shellfish like oysters that help filter the water the Hill reports. It adds that a Blue New Deal would emphasize tremendous investments in coastal infrastructure. Warren has yet to roll out an official Blue New Deal proposal but her 3 trillion climate change planinspired by Washington Gov. Jay Inslee D is expansive pulling from many of her existing plans to address issues broadly related to the topic of climate change.	True	False	False	True	True
Advocates of man made climate change believe that it causes strong storms rising tides and hot temperatures and that black communities are disproportionately hurt by the effects of global warming. That was the topic at a recent roundtable discussion in Washington DC where Bloomberg Environment reported that activists at the event said Congress needed to take action. People of color have always been on the front line of this movement Alaina Beverly a former Obama White House urban affairs official who is now vice president for urban affairs at the University of Chicagos Office of Federal Relations in Washington said at the event. Were hit first and hit worst. This is our issue Beverly said. Bloomberg Environment reported on how blacks are allegedly suffering from climate change related hardships Most of the worst effects of climate change are hittingand lingering inpoor black neighborhoods in the South according to the Rev. Leo Woodberry executive director of the New Alpha Community Development Corporation in Florence S.C. In coastal South Carolina for example residents in largely black towns have been told they wont be eligible for flood insurance if they dont elevate their homes but a survey of local engineering groups showed the cost starts at 20000 for a 900 square foot house Woodberry said. In New York City many residents who die from heat stroke are African American Peggy Shepard executive director of West Harlem Environmental Action Inc. also known as WE ACT for Environmental Justice said at a Sept. 12 roundtable hosted by the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation where Beverly and Woodberry also spoke. This is about social disruption Shepard said. Extreme heat is killing thousands every year. Bloomberg Environment cited a University of California at Berkeley study that said blacks are 52 percent more likely than whites to live in so called urban heat islands where the sun beams down on brick concrete and asphalt. Theres no question that this is a topic area that black politicians including the CBC Congressional Black Caucus have not focused on as much Thomas A. LaVeist dean of Tulane Universitys School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine said in an interview. And I think its because the stereotype is that the environment is about tree hugging or saving exotic birds. Members of the Congressional Black Caucus say theyve heard the call and are working on solutions Bloomberg Environment reported. The caucus is made up of 55 African American members of the House and Senate. I think were going to be energetic in supporting any legislation that is aimed at improving the environment but I also have to tell you how congested the major issues have become Rep. Emanuel Cleaver D MO said in the Bloomberg Environment article. Cleaver said lawmakers could add language to the Federal Emergency Management Agencys FEMA budget to put resources in poor black communities and the National Flood Insurance Program could add more protections for black communities. Bloomberg Environment reported that some are already putting out legislation with this goal in mind including Reps. Maxine Waters D CA Raul Grijalva D AZ and A. Donald McEachin D VA. For African Americans and people living in urban poor communities it provides them with an empowerment tool to enforce the law to demand action and to try to get remediation done Grijalva told Bloomberg Environment. Separately Rep. Kathy Castor D Fla. chairwoman of the House Select Committee on the Climate Crisis is working on a climate bill to be rolled out in March that among other things will aim to help communities of color living near pollution sources Bloomberg Environment reported. Many House Democrats think theres value in putting these measures up for a vote even if they have little chance in the Senate now to send a message. The article also quoted Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D NY about her Green New Deal resolution that puts social justice even above climate change. I think its backwards and shortsighted to say Well lets just throw a bunch of solar panels on everyones roof and call it a day Ocasio Cortez said. Because you cannot build a winning political coalition to fight climate change on just technocratic solutions. By fighting for the actual justice and livelihood of working people you are going to create the political energy to actually address climate change she said.	False	False	False	False	False
Ivanka Trump on Thursday retweeted a White House message hailing the administration as a driver for science and Twitter was agog. The initial tweet was posted the White House Office of Science and Technology after it issued a report titled Science Technology Highlights in the Second Year of the Trump Administration. On Wednesday The Washington Post reported that Trump was convening a panel the Presidential Committee on Climate Security to question the findings of federal scientists and experts on climate change andcounter red alert warningsfrom the scientific community. President Donald Trumps pick to head the committee William Happer once compared the demonization of CO2 to how Jews were characterized in Nazi Germany. Happer who has no experience in climatology has said having higher atmospheric carbon dioxide levels is beneficial. Trump said late last year that he didnt believe a dire report by federal agencies about climate change declaring Were the cleanest weve ever been. His run ins with climate science were repeatedly highlighted in responses to the retweet by thefirst daughter and senior White House adviser. For the past two years the Trump Administration has been an active and meaningful driver for science and technology policy in America. pic.twitter.comJQkiWI4Dx2 White House OSTP February 21 2019 Donald Trump has said he will pull the US out of the Paris international climate agreement! taken steps to cut back the US Environmental Protection Agency is on record saying that global warming is a hoax invented by the Chinese to attack US manufacturing...... Dawn Amos meh my dogs are the boss of me February 21 2019 You can't believe science in a selective manner and claim to be pro science. That is hypocrisy. Robert Johnson February 21 2019 When you continue to deny climate science you cant make the claim that you are a driver of science policy. No more gaslighting. merryterry February 21 2019	True	False	False	False	False
After years of failing to pass a carbon tax climate hawks are now rallying behind a bold new proposal for tackling global warming. Known as the Green New Deal this economic stimulus package for the planet promises to dramatically cut carbon emissions through government spending on clean energy jobs technologies and infrastructure. The main selling point of the Green New Deal has been its politics. While carbon pricing has long been touted as the most cost effective policy for reducing emissions it has struggled to gain legislative traction. By contrast advocates of the Green New Deal believe their proposal can build a winning coalition by reframing climate policy as a story of economic growth and opportunity. A Green New Deal is not just good politics. It is good economics. Society can combat climate change by using existing clean technologies to cut emissions today or by innovating new clean technologies to cut emissions in the future. We need both strategies to address global warming. Every second that we delay in reducing our carbon footprint imposes costs on ourselves and on countless future generations. If we want to avoid climate catastrophe we need to make deep cuts in emissions soon. On the other hand the challenges and costs of relying solely on current technologies to address climate change are prohibitively high. We need investments in clean innovation to make it cheaper to reduce emissions in the future. We could achieve the twin goals of slashing emissions and spurring innovation by putting a very high price on greenhouse gases. Carbon taxes can encourage industries to both reduce their footprints and develop cheaper clean technologies. However carbon pricing by itself is not the most efficient climate policy. As we explain in a recent paper the cheaper and faster approach for our society is to combine a moderately sized carbon tax with significant federal spending on the development and deployment of clean technologies. While carbon pricing is the most cost effective way to reduce emissions today government subsidies are the most cost effective way to advance clean technologies tomorrow. The intuition behind all this is simple. Policies work best when they are narrowly tailored to the behavior that they seek to alter. Thus if we want markets to produce more clean innovation we should reward innovators rather than penalize polluters in the hopes that doing so will indirectly induce them to produce innovation. The benefits of directly encouraging clean innovation are striking. Economists have estimated our society can save more than 1.4 trillion a year if governments used a combination of taxes and subsidies rather than taxes only to address climate change. In short good economics calls for the type of broad federal spending on clean innovation that the Green New Deal promises to deliver. Of course the effectiveness of the proposal at spurring innovation will depend on its design the exact details of which have yet to be ironed out. The package should increase funding for early stage clean energy research as this kind of basic science is usually too risky to attract private investors. The Green New Deal should also include subsidies for the adoption and deployment of clean technologies such as tax credits for clean energy investment and manufacturing. These types of policies that help emerging technologies scale up and mature can be powerful drivers of clean energy innovation. Critics will undoubtedly argue that we cannot afford the Green New Deal. This line of attack however ignores the costs of inaction. While the Green New Deal will not be cheap its price pales in comparison to the damage that unchecked climate change will inflict on the economy. This argument also ignores the savings that will result from the push toward clean energy innovation under the Green New Deal. The development of cheaper clean technologies should more than offset the costs of the stimulus package. Opponents will also claim that the government is a bad venture capitalist and that a Green New Deal will pour taxpayer dollars into clean energy boondoggles. While concerns about government waste are certainly real they can be avoided through smart policy design. The government can encourage innovation without favoring particular clean technologies or companies by enacting neutral research and development tax credits. The ideal economic climate policy does include carbon pricing. But we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good. Even if the government cannot enact the best policy for cutting emissions today it can still use the best policy for advancing clean innovation tomorrow. The Green New Deal pushes climate policy into uncharted political waters but it does so based on sound economic theories. If we want to save the planet for the least amount of money we need the Green New Deal and we need it now. Quentin Karpilow is a law clerk in the federal judiciary. Zachary Liscow is an economist and a professor at Yale Law School who has served on the staff of the White House Council of Economic Advisors. The views are their own.	True	False	False	True	True
The president of an island nation on the frontline of climate change says it is in a fight to the death after freak waves inundated the capital. Powerful swells averaging 5m 16ft washed across the capital of the Marshall Islands Majuro last week. But President Hilda Heine said the Pacific nation had been fighting rising tides even before last week's disaster. Political leaders and climate diplomats are meeting in Madrid for two weeks of talks amid a growing sense of crisis. This conference of the parties or COP25 was due to be held in Chile but was cancelled by the government due to weeks of civil disturbances. Spain then stepped in to host the event which will see 29000 attendees over the two weeks of talks. Climate change Where we are in seven charts The world's average surface temperature is rising rapidly because human activities release greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide CO2. These gases trap heat in the atmosphere a bit like the glass roof of a greenhouse. At the meeting Ms Heine commented Water covers much of our land at one or other point of the year as we fight rising tides. As we speak hundreds of people have evacuated their homes after large waves caused the ocean to inundate parts of our capital in Majuro last week. She added It's a fight to the death for anyone not prepared to flee. As a nation we refuse to flee. But we also refuse to die. Ms Heine is not alone in the view that small nations like the Marshall Islands face an imminent existential threat. At the Madrid summit ambassador Lois Young from the Alliance of Small Island States AOSIS which represents low lying coastal countries and small island nations launched a rebuke to the world's big polluters. We are disappointed by inadequate action by developed countries and outraged by the dithering and retreat of one of the most culpable polluters from the Paris Agreement she said. In the midst of a climate emergency retreat and inaction are tantamount to sanctioning ecocide. They reflect profound failure to honour collective global commitment to protect the most vulnerable. With our very existence at stake COP 25 must demonstrate unprecedented ambition to avert ecocide. The COP25 meeting will aim to step up ambition so that all countries increase their national commitments to cut emissions. The meeting follows on the heels of three UN reports which stressed the increased urgency of limiting dangerous climate change. According to UN Secretary General Antnio Guterres the point of no return is no longer over the horizon. Speaking ahead of the meeting he said political leaders had to respond to the imminent climate crisis. In the crucial 12 months ahead it is essential that we secure more ambitious national commitments particularly from the main emitters to immediately start reducing greenhouse gas emissions at a pace consistent to reaching carbon neutrality by 2050. We simply have to stop digging and drilling and take advantage of the vast possibilities offered by renewable energy and nature based solutions Mr Guterres said. Almost every country in the world has now signed and ratified the Paris climate agreement and under the terms of the pact they will all have to put new climate pledges on the table before the end of 2020. This meeting in Madrid signals the start of a frantic 12 months of negotiations that will culminate in Glasgow with COP26 in November next year. Some 50 world leaders are expected to attend the meeting in the Spanish capital but US President Donald Trump will not be among them. The US became a signatory to the landmark Paris climate agreement in April 2016 under the Obama administration. But President Trump has said the accord which has been signed by more than 190 countries would lead to lost jobs and lower wages for American workers. Last month he began the process of withdrawing from the Paris deal. However Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi will attend the conference with a congressional delegation. While her presence has been welcomed US environmentalists want to see concrete steps on climate. While it's great Speaker Pelosi is coming to Madrid in place of Trump symbolic gestures are no substitute for bold action said Jean Su from the US Center for Biological Diversity. America remains the number one historic contributor to the climate emergency and even Democratic politicians have never committed to taking responsibility for our fair share. Underlining the real world impacts of climate change a report from the charity Save the Children says that what it calls climate shocks are threatening tens of millions of people in East and Southern Africa. The charity says 33 million people are at emergency levels of food insecurity due to cyclones and droughts. More than half of these are believed to be children. The situation has been made worse because the two strongest cyclones ever to hit the African continent affected the same region just weeks apart. Cyclone Idai struck Mozambique Zimbabwe and Malawi last March while six weeks later Cyclone Kenneth slammed Mozambique with millions affected by flooding. The climate crisis is happening here and it's killing people forcing them from their homes and ruining children's chance of a future said Ian Vale from Save the Children.	False	False	False	True	False
Washington CNN Toy gun grasped firmly in his hand and a grin plastered wide across his face while he played Big Buck Hunter Pro Ryan Zinke could have been a kid at an arcade. But the Interior secretary and former congressman was actually in the department cafeteria showing off the arcade game installed to commemorate hunting season. To highlight contributions 2 conservation I installed Big Buck Hunter in the employee cafeteria. Get excited for season! Zinke tweeted from his personal account Tuesday. But Zinke is not toying around when it comes to his support of hunters and fishers. Hunting in the United States is down. A US Fish and Wildlife Service survey released last week found that there are 2.2 million fewer hunters in America now than in 2011. And the new administration is poised to change that. On his first day in office back in March Zinke issued two orders one which overturned a recent ban of lead ammunition and fish tackle on Fish and Wildlife Service lands and waters. Last week Zinke issued another secretarial order designed to increase access to various public lands for hunters and fishers. What really kind of expedited this whole thing was last week the US Fish and Wildlife put out a survey saying that hundreds of Americans were enjoying the outdoors but within that survey they found that hunting was down Heather Swift Interior spokesperson said when asked about last week's secretarial order. And the big thing that the secretary hears over and over again is that people just don't have access to land. Mr. Zinke was the pick of the litter not the best litter ever but he was definitely the pick and that's why we advocated for him and that's why Jr. advocated for him as well said Land Tawney the president of the Montana based Backcountry Hunters Anglers a non profit sportsmen's organization. Zinke and the Interior have recently made a big show of their support of hunting groups. In addition to the Buck Hunter game he gifted Interior employees the department declared Thursday that October would be National Hunting and Fishing Month. The declaration also generated the support of the National Rifle Association. Hunters anglers and target shooters are the best conservationists who contribute so much through the Pittman Robertson and Dingell Johnson Acts said Richard Childress NRA vice president. Last year they contributed 1.2 billion toward conservation and protecting our natural resources. We need more mentors taking young people out and teaching them to hunt and fish so I'm glad Secretary Zinke is promoting hunting and fishing at the federal level. With what's leaked it's super troubling. Any reduction on these monuments is an attack on the Antiquities Act said Tawney. All monuments are at risk now. They can become political footballs in our eyes. Conservationists who want to expand their access to hunting on public park lands and at monuments are as weary of opening up national park land to fossil fuel industries as environmentalists are since both value sustaining the land as is. We can have all the access we want to a concrete parking lot but that access doesn't mean anything if that fish and wildlife habitat isn't there said Tawney. Another pro hunting group says what they are seeing within Interior is a fight between access and conservation. On the access front the department has been good. Access to our own public lands is a lot harder today than it ever has been and that is in part introduced with the decline in hunting numbers we've seen said Whit Fosburgh president and CEO of the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership a non profit coalition of conservation organizations and outdoor related businesses. On the conservation side however I think it's a much less rosy picture Fosburgh said. It's been a lot more about expanding development opening up to oil and gas. There has been no proactive conservation vision espoused for our public lands. Fosburgh said that the hunting community started getting a little bit critical of Zinke after he first announced the National Monument Review earlier this year. And he's skeptical of just how far the secretarial order will go. They use hunting and fishing for an excuse for our changes in monuments he said. All of the ones under review already allow hunting and fishing very clearly. Fosberg's criticism is similar to what environmental groups said following the secretarial order last week. Don't be fooled the Trump Administration is pretending to be granting hunting and fishing rights that are already guaranteed by law and policy said a statement from the Center for American Progress a left leaning thing tank. The real story is that with this announcement the Trump administration is trying to create a distraction from their plans to dramatically reduce the size of America's national monuments which would be the largest elimination of protections on wildlife habitat in US history. Nevertheless Fosburgh said most pro hunting and conservation minded groups are still hoping for the best with the Trump administration. We're very prepared and we have been from day one. We supported his nomination and we are prepared to work with Secretary Zinke he said. We're not going to just say it's a lost cause in September of the first year of the administration.	False	False	True	False	False
Sen. Elizabeth Warren D MA on Friday praised the climate change activists who are striking on Black Friday urging them to stay strong in this fight! Climate change activists across the globe opted to protest what they consider a climate crisis on the biggest shopping day of the year disrupting shoppers at the Water Tower Place shopping mall in Chicago Illinois and holding a Black Friday Funeral For Future in the nations capital Warren emphatically expressed her support for their efforts. Climate change is an existential threat and its going to take a grassroots movement ready to fight for big structural change to defeat it Warren wrote. Im standing with the young activists on todaystay strong in this fight! While protests indeed broke out across the globe the protest in D.C. featured a funeral procession to draw attention to the crisis and show that business as usual can not continue. Well gather on the Southeast lawn of the Capitol to eulogize and mourn all that has been lost and all that is threatened by the climate crisis the events description reads. All those with hopes and dreams who cherish the future are invited to gather in the shadow of the Halls of Congress. The ceremonial closed casket funeral will conclude with a funeral procession through the streets of Washington DC it added quoting activists who called petroleum a plague and the black death of our generation. Were bringing the loss of our future to the steps of the Capitol because they need to prepare to own this death 17 year old organizer Maddie Graham said. We need systemic change. Congress has been feeding our fossil fuel addiction Graham added. They know they are killing our future but they wont take action to save it. Meanwhile Warren has attempted to channel Gov. Jay Inslees D climate change proposals in recent months. Warren said during an interview with New Hampshire Public Radio in October We do those three things we cut carbon emission in our country by 70 percent. Think about that three things 70 percent reduction she added. The host asked Warren a listener question name the specific steps she has taken in her campaign to ensure that your campaigns environmental impact is limited as possible. Warren did not go into detail but claimed that she mostly flies commercial. So Ive mostly been flying commercial Warren said. Its everything from the kind of car we drive and down to do we purchase offsets? Can we make that work s a way to try to reduce the footprint she added	False	False	False	True	False
A Trump administration presentation extolling the virtues of fossil fuels at the UN climate talks in Poland has been met with guffaws of laughter and chants of Shame on you. Mondays protest came during a panel discussion by the official US delegation which used its only public appearance to promote the unapologetic utilisation of coal oil and gas. Although these industries are the main source of the carbon emissions that are causing global warming the speakers boasted the US would expand production for the sake of global energy security and planned a new fleet of coal plants with technology it hoped to export to other countries. The event featured prominent cheerleaders for fossil fuels and nuclear power including Wells Griffith Donald Trumps adviser on global energy and climate Steve Winberg the assistant secretary for fossil energy at the energy department and Rich Powell the executive director of the ClearPath Foundation a non profit organisation focused on conservative clean energy. The only non American was Patrick Suckling the ambassador for the environment in Australias coal enthusiast government. None of the US participants mentioned climate change or global warming focusing instead of innovation and entrepreneurship in the technological development of nuclear power clean coal and carbon capture and storage. Ten minutes into Griffiths opening speech he was interrupted by a sudden sustained loud volley of laughter by several dozen protesters that was then followed by a single shout of Its not funny and then a series of chants of Keep it in the ground and Shame on you. Several campaigners read statements. There is no such thing as clean coal. Coal is deadly from the beginning to the end. They talk about the life cycle of coal I talk about it as a death march. My father died of black lung and I am in this struggle with others whose fathers and husbands are dying of black lung right now said Teri Blanton of Kentuckians for the Commonwealth which represents Appalachian coal workers in North America. After the protesters were led away by security guards Griffiths said In the US our policy is not to keep it in the ground but to use it as cleanly and efficiently as possible. This statement was contradicted by climate analysts who noted the US environment agency estimates that 1400 more deaths per year will result from Trumps proposal to replace the Clean Power Act. Its ludicrous for Trump officials to claim that they want to clean up fossil fuels while dismantling standards that would do just that said Dan Lashof the director of the World Resources Institute. Since taking office this administration has proposed to roll back measures to cut methane leaks from oil and gas operations made it easier for companies to dump coal ash into drinking water and just days ago proposed easing carbon pollution rules for new coal fired power plants. Griffith boasted the US had the largest coal reserves in the world and iwas producing more petroleum than ever. To achieve economic growth and eradicate poverty all energy uses are important and they will be utilised unapologetically he said. Echoing a claim often made by Trump Griffiths said the US would not be subject to agreements that hamstrung domestic growth while allowing China to operate with high emissions. This was the second consecutive year that the Trump team was heckled after promoting fossil fuels and nuclear power at the climate talks underscoring how the US position has shifted since the president took power in 2017. The US was a key player in forging the Paris agreement in 2015 but its standing has steadily eroded since. In 2017 Trump announced he would pull the US out of the global accord. This year his representatives have taken a still more destructive stance by aligning with Russia Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to try to downgrade a key report by the worlds scientists that warned of the dangers of global warming moving beyond 1.5C above pre industrial levels. None of the panelists would be drawn on the study but Griffith spoke out against alarmism that he claimed displaced pragmatic solutions to address environmental concerns with prescriptive regulations that put jobs at risk and raised costs for consumers. In fact scientists say their forecasts about climate impacts have been too conservative while economists say the shift to renewables has resulted in cheaper energy for many users. Winberg said the US government was planning to support a new fleet of small modular coal plants that he claimed would be energy efficient and have near zero emissions if combined with carbon capture technology. After initial development in the US he said they could be exported to other countries. They offer opportunity for developing nations to access tomorrows coal technology to improve energy security he said. He also proposed more pipelines to oil fields in the Gulf of Mexico. Despite this public commitment the US use of coal is declining because renewables are cheaper according to Nathaniel Keohane the senior vice president for the Environmental Defense Fund nonprofit group. Trump is playing politics but its not changing the facts on the ground he said. Coal usage in the US just hit a 39 year low. If we really want to protect our economy well move aggressively toward 100 clean energy. An alternative non official US delegation has backed a faster transition to renewables. Made up of city and state level governments business executives and religious leaders the Were still in group is staging dozens of events in a bid to show action is still possible without White House support. Nonetheless many observers at the official US panel were ashamed at the position of their federal government. I was completely embarrassed to be an American said Leo McNeil Woodberry of the Climate Action Network. Everything they proposed was absolutely wrong. I cant believe they are putting profits over the planet and profits over people.	True	False	False	False	True
Aswildfirescontinue torageacross the Westduring a brutally hotsummer on Thursday the US Forest Service released itsnewforest fire management strategy thatfocuses on science and thechanging climate. The report comes at the same time the president has sent out misleading tweets aboutthe causes and solutions of Californias wildfires and as Donald Trumps Interior head Ryan Zinke has blamed fires on environmentalists denied climate change science and called for more logging. Zinke has said the forest fires have nothing to do with climate change and recently called the left angry intolerant and uninformed on the environment and public land management according to the Huffington Post. But the Department of the Interior disputes this in an email to Mother Jones saying The Secretary addressed the correlation between climate and fires dozens of times over the 48 hours he was in California and all week in interviews since returning. Additionally in his op ed the Secretary directly addressed longer hotter drier seasons in the opening paragraphs.Its true that Zinke changed his tuneafter his earlier comments Zinke told reportersThursday that climate change has played a role in the fires and that global temperatures are rising. Trump weighed in on Californias fires on Twitter earlier this month with tweets that were immediately described as false and misleadingsaying California wildfires are being magnified made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which arent allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilizedMust also tree clear to stop fire spreading! Mother Jonesasked an expert to decipher this nonsense and you can read his analysis here. But today the Forest Servicewhich is part of the Department of Agriculture released anew 28 page fire management strategy. In itthe service writes Of particular concern are longer fire seasons and the rising size and severity of wildfires along with the growing risk to lives homes natural resources and other values. The report also includes a map of changes in fire weather seasons in the United States between 1979 and 2017 a phenomenon scientists warn is largely due to climate change Though the Forest Service doesnt mention the words climate change specifically aspast versions of the plan have it points out that changes in temperature precipitation patterns and other environmental conditions are all driving factors behind wildfires and other environmental challenges. And in the Appendix the Forest Service writes effects of a changing climate are a general threat to forest health. Its a breath of fresh air to see science instead of politics inserted into forest and fire management saidKirin Kennedy associatelegislative director for lands and wildlife at the Sierra Club in a statement. The longer Ryan Zinke continues to ignore these facts the greater the risks to homes and families.	False	False	False	False	False
Trump administration officials are keeping their lips sealed on whether they believe there are connections between the two Category 4 hurricanes that came barreling at the United States in recent weeks Harvey and Irma and climate change. When Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders was asked about a link Monday she touted the country's environmental record and moved on. When Homeland Security Advisor Tom Bossert was asked as he preceded Huckabee Sanders in the briefing he wouldn't talk about climate change's cause. 'I will tell you that we continue to take seriously the climate change' he said. 'Not the cause of it but the things that we observe.' 'Causality is something outside my ability to analyze right now' Bossert also added. When President Trump was asked about it Sunday returning home to the White House from Camp David he simply ignored the reporter's query and walked inside. Climate scientists largely agree that the oceans are heating up leading to larger scarier hurricanes. At Monday's briefing Huckabee Sanders dismissed a climate change question noting that Trump had addressed the issue previously of whether he thought it was man made. In the past Trump has suggested climate change was a hoax created by the Chinese to choke American industry. In June he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate accord. Huckabee Sanders was also asked if Trump was re thinking that decision now. 'I'm not sure specifically on the Paris climate deal but as he said at the time the goal is to always do the very best when taking care of the environment and taking proper steps' Huckabee Sanders replied. 'The United States is one of the best in the world at doing this we want to continue to do that but right now the administration is focused on the recovery and the relief efforts and as Tom Bossert said a few minutes ago we'll look at that analysis once we get through the coming days and focus on the recovery and relief and saving life effort' Huckabee Sanders added. Bossert had suggested that the hurricanes be studied though also pointed out the cyclical nature of the seasons. 'And I think the scientists for the forecast on this particular one they were dead on that this would be a stronger more powerful hurricane season with slightly more than average large storms making landfall in the United States' he said. 'So we'll have to do a larger trend analysis at a later date' Bossert added. The Environmental Protection Agency's Scott Pruitt went one step further when asked about climate change Friday suggesting that it wasn't appropriate. 'To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced' Pruitt said. Of course the scientific community as the New York Times put it believes that'drawing links between warming global temperatures and the ferocity of hurricanes is about as controversial as talking about geology after an earthquake.' But in politics it's become a heated issue that speaks to the current red versus blue divide. And while it's primarily Republicans who won't touch the global warming third rail that doesn't always hold true. On Sunday Sen. John McCain R Fla. who has preached bipartisanship in recent months on the heels of his cancer diagnosis told CNN's Jake Tapper that he didn't know why his Republican colleagues were denying climate change adding that it was 'time to sit down.' 'We have to understand that the climate may be changing and we can take common sense measures which will not harm the American people' McCain argued.	True	False	False	True	True
President Donald Trump picked West Virginia to announce his plan to reduce pollution controls on coal fired power plants which is no surprise. West Virginia loves coal and coal miners love Trump but what both of them may not love is the fact that a reduction in pollution controls is going to greatly increase the number of people who die prematurely from pollution created by burning coal. It will also greatly increase the number of people who get sick with serious illnesses such as heart and lung problems. When he made his announcement somehow Trump left out those details of the life threatening side effects of using coal to create electrical energy. Even though they will be getting sick and dying at higher rates it is not expected that Trumps actions will reduce his popularity among West Virginians. An analysis done by his own Environmental Protection Agency EPA concludes that the rollback of Obama era pollution controls will lead to many more people dying and suffering health problems that they otherwise would not have. Clean air controls since the 1980s stopped the columns of black soot that used to rise from coal smokestacks in the region. The clean air rules reduced the number of people dying from coal fired power plants substantially. Technology has changed and now pollutants rise from smokestacks as gases before solidifying into invisible particles small enough to pass through lungs and into bloodstreams. An EPA analysis says those pollutants would increase under Trumps plan when compared to what would happen under the Obama rules. This will result in many thousands of more heart attacks asthma problems and other illnesses than would have happened without Trumps new rules. The EPA says up to 1500 more people will die each year under Trumps plan. And the areas that will be hit the hardest are in Trump country the coal mining regions of West Virginia. There could be dozens of new deaths and hundreds of new serious illnesses each year because of Trumps plan. Obamas Clean Power Plan targeted climate changing carbon dioxide and would have curbed harmful emissions of carbon dioxide and other pollutants from the coal fired power plants. It would have increased federal regulation of emissions from the nations electrical grid and broadly promoted natural gas solar power and other cleaner energy. Trumps Affordable Clean Energy program will dismantle President Barack Obamas 2015 Clean Power Plan which has not yet been implemented due to court battles. Trumps plan will give up much of the federal oversight of existing coal fired power plants. Not only that but the government will no longer promote cleaner energy. Individual states will decide how much to regulate coal power plants in their own states. At his public announcement Trump said Im getting rid of some of these ridiculous rules and regulations which are killing our companies and our jobs. There was no mention of the increases in harmful emissions that would result compared to the Obama plan or the health risks. In West Virginia coal is popular and politicians who support coal get elected. Vivian Stockman of the Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition was protesting outside Trumps rally. Our state is beholden to coal. Our politicians are beholden to coal. Meanwhile our people are being poisoned she said.	False	False	False	False	False
Environmental groups plan to sue the Trump administration over offshore drilling tests launching a legal fight against a proposal that has drawn bipartisan opposition along the Atlantic Coast two people with direct knowledge of the pending litigation told The Associated Press. The lawsuit which aims to stop the issuance of permits for the use of seismic air guns will be filed by a coalition of environmental groups in federal court in South Carolina on Tuesday according to the individuals. They spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly before the suit is filed. The Trump administration has authorized five such permits which aim to find oil and gas formations deeply below the Atlantic Ocean floor from Delaware to central Florida an area where seismic surveys haven't been conducted in decades. The blasts are conducted in preparation for potential offshore drilling which the administration has proposed to expand from the Atlantic to the Arctic and Pacific oceans. The five year plan would open 90 percent of the nation's offshore reserves to private development. Survey vessels will be required to have observers on board to listen and watch for marine life and alert operators if a protected species comes within a certain distance officials have said and acoustic monitoring will be used to detect those animals swimming beneath the ocean surface. Surveys would be shut down when certain sensitive species or groups are observed and penalties could be imposed for vessels that strike marine animals. The precautions aren't enough for environmental groups who have said the blasts can disturb marine mammals. Industry groups say the surveys have been conducted around the world for decades with little adverse impact. The drilling issue has created strange political bedfellows along the East Coast with Democrats and Republicans in some areas united over the issue. In South Carolina's 1st Congressional District Republican Katie Arrington a supporter of President Donald Trump who initially said she stood by his plans to open up Atlantic Coast drilling later backed off that support amid a growing wave of drilling opposition in the coastal district she aimed to represent. Arrington ultimately lost the general election to Joe Cunningham a Democrat staunchly opposed to drilling who collected support from coastal Republican mayors. Voters said they had been turned off by what they saw as Arrington's flip flop on the issue and they turned instead to Cunningham's consistency. On Monday Cunningham told the AP that he backed the legal effort which would pair with legislative action he plans to take up in the U.S. House. I'm going to go up to D.C. and fight like hell Cunningham said. These lawsuits are one tool in our bag that we're going to use. South Carolina Gov. Henry McMaster's early support of Trump's candidacy hasn't stopped him from opposing the president's drilling plans. Earlier this year McMaster was among state executives to request a drilling waiver seeking the same sort of promise already given to Florida Gov. Rick Scott another Trump ally. Since then officials from the Department of the Interior have said Secretary Ryan Zinke's promise to Florida was not a formal action and will instead be part of the department's analysis as it completes its plans. In February McMaster met with Zinke at the Governor's Mansion in Columbia. This week McMaster spokesman Brian Symmes told The Associated Press that the governor and the state's top prosecutor both Republicans would continue to work on a plan to keep drilling away from the state. The governor and Attorney General Alan Wilson have resolved to continue working together to determine the best path forward Symmes said. Anything and everything is on the table to keep us from seeing seismic testing or offshore drilling off the coast of South Carolina. State Rep. Nancy Mace a Republican representing parts of the greater Charleston area supports the lawsuit which she called South Carolina's best option to challenge federal government overreach. The government doesn't get to pick winners and losers in this thing Mace said. When you have every mayor every community saying 'We don't want this' and now you're going to shove seismic testing down our throats? I don't think so. Mace said she is concerned both with potential environmental damage and the possible threat to South Carolina's 20 billion tourism industry much of which centers around the coast. We have the potential to destroy that beauty off our coast with rigs that nobody wants Mace said. We've got to do something and a lawsuit might be the only way to do it.	False	False	False	True	False
Upside down rivers of warm ocean water may be one of the causes of Antarctica's ice shelves breaking up leading to a rise in sea levels. A new study suggests that in the past increases in Antarctic sea ice in colder climates may have contributed to ice ages. Using computer simulations the research looked at past changes during the glacial periods and noted that previous increases in sea ice levels may have significantly altered the circulation of the ocean which led to a reverse greenhouse effect as carbon dioxide levels in the ocean increased and levels in the air decreased. One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement. We are pretty confident that the carbon balance between the atmosphere and ocean must have changed but we dont quite know how or why. ANTARCTICA'S ICE SHEETS CONTAIN RADIOACTIVE CHLORINE GAS 60 YEARS AFTER NUCLEAR TESTS STUDY SAYS The last major ice age ended at the end of the Pleistocene epoch about 11700 years ago as glaciers have periodically grown and then gotten smaller. Researchers believe that changes to the Earth's orbit may be partly responsible for some of the Earth's cooling but additional factors have likely played a part Jensen added. The most plausible explanation is that there was some change in how carbon was divided between the atmosphere and the ocean Jansen continued. Theres no shortage of ideas about how this happens but its not quite clear how they all fit together. Researchers also believe a mini ice age may have occurred roughly 12800 years ago. It likely stems from an asteroid impact that rocked the Northern Hemisphere and led to the Younger Dryas climate event. Jansen pointed out that the Southern Ocean around Antarctica plays a key role in ocean circulation due to the deep waters in the region leading it to have outsized consequences. AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING NEW STUDY FINDS What this suggests is that its a feedback loop said the study's lead author Alice Marzocchi. As the temperature drops less carbon is released into the atmosphere which triggers more cooling. What surprised me is how much of this increased storage can be attributed to physical changes alone with Antarctic sea ice cover being the key player Marzocchi added noting that future study of the ocean and the role it plays in the carbon cycle can help simulate future environmental change. The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events. It was only about past events.	False	True	False	True	True
New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez on Monday unveilednew details on the so called Green New Deal she plans to introduce in a matter of days as she worked behind the scenes to rally congressional support for the proposal that could cost as much as 7 trillion. Ocasio Cortez who is set to unveil the plan with Massachusetts Democratic Sen.Ed Markey told her fellow representatives in a letter that the Green New Deal calls for anational social industrial and economic mobilization at a scale not seen since World War II. Next week we plan to release a resolution that outlines the scope and scale of the Green New Deal Ocasio Cortez said in the letter adding that the country's near totaleconomic transformationshould take approximately ten years. To raise awareness for the measureMarkey announced Monday he had invitedVarshini Prakash the co founder of the Sunrise Movement environmentalist group to be his guest at President Trump's State of the Union address Tuesday night. Several other Democrats announced guests apparently intended to highlight their opposition to various Trump administration policies while Trump himself extended invites to the family of a couple allegedly murdered by an illegal immigrantand a child bullied at school for having the last name Trump. The Green New Deal proposal would lead to national net zero greenhouse gas emissions according to Ocasio Cortez'sletter through a fair and just transition for all communities and workers while also generating millions of good high wage jobs. Details of the letter were first published by Bloomberg. ANALYSIS GREEN NEW DEAL IS MOST RADICAL LEGISLATION IN DECADES Through it all the Green New Deal would additionally promote justice and equity by preventing current and repairing historic oppression to frontline and vulnerable communities according to Ocasio Cortez. On Twitter Monday Ocasio Cortez reposted a claim from one of her advisersRobert Hockett arguing that in this case size matters and that the problems the Green New Deal addresses require solutions where bigger is better imperative and paraodixcally more affordable. Hockett is a lawyer and law professor and is not an expert in environmental policy. Severalanalysts meanwhile have cautioned that the liberal firebrand is in over her head even though the as yet vague and uncertain details about the Green New Deal render a precise calculation impossible at the moment. Physicist Christopher Clack told The Hillthat the cost would easily be into the trillions. Its a daunting task and Im not sure that the authors of the Green New Deal fully comprehend how much theyll need Clack said. Institute for Energy Research president Tom Pyle was more blunt One hundred percent renewable energy defies the laws of physics. It would be impossible to achieve. And Paul Bledsoe a strategic adviser at the Progressive Policy Institute said progressives were overcompensating. I understand the value of aspirational goals Bledsoesaid. My personal view is that undermines the credibility of the effort. Nevertheless approximately 70 Democraticlawmakers have so far tentativelyendorsed aGreen New Deal plan including Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren and California Democratic Sen. Kamala Harris. House speaker Nancy Pelosi who has vowed to address climate change has not publicly signed onto the plan even though scores of progressive activists joined by Ocasio Cortez staged a sit in at her House office late last year demanding action on the climate. While there is no legislative text yet available for the MarkeyOcasio Cortez proposal adraft circulated by Ocasio Cortez last weekcalled for a committee to be formed to create a plan and lays out a framework that includes eliminating greenhouse gas emissions from manufacturing and agriculture whiledramatically expanding energy sources to meet 100 percent of power demand through renewable sources. To coverwhat would presumably be a gargantuan cost it envisions financing by the federal government using a combination of the Federal Reserve a new public bank or system of regional and specialized public banks public venture funds and such other vehicles or structures that the select committee deems appropriate in order to ensure that interest and other investment returns generated from public investments made in connection with the plan will be returned to the treasury reduce taxpayer burden and allow for more investment. As it stands any such proposal would be almost certainly dead on arrival in the Republican controlled Senate and also possibly the House where it is not clear if a majority of Democrats would back a plan. Even if Congress managed to pass a version of the Green New Deal the White House could veto the legislation anda two thirds majority in both the House of Representatives and the Senate would be needed to override the veto. The Trump administrationhas made clear it would not accept Ocasio Cortez's proposals. In January White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders derided Ocasio Cortez'srecent claim that theworld will end in 12 yearsdue to climate change andsuggested the Trump administration has little need for the progressive firebrand'sthoughts in general. CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP I don't think we'regoing to listen to Ocasio Cortez on much of anything particularly not on matters we're gonna leave in the hands of a much much higher authority and certainly not listen to the freshman congresswoman on when the world may end Sanders told Fox News' Hannity. Speaking at an eventcommemoratingMartin Luther King Day that monthOcasio Cortez asserted thatclimate change constituted our World War II and added Millennials and people you know Gen Z and all these folks that will come after us are looking up and were like The world is gonna end in 12 years if we dont address climate change and your biggest issue is how are we gonna pay for it?'	False	True	True	True	False
Trumps recently installed EPA chief dismissed a study from his own department's scientists about the dangers of climate change and then admitted he never even read the study in the first place. The study produced by EPA scientists andpublished in the journal Nature Climate Change concluded that climate change will affect 22 major sectors in the United States including human health infrastructure and agriculture and that the damages in some sectors are estimated to range in the hundreds of billions of US dollars annually by the end of the century if we do nothing and allow carbon emissions to remain high. But EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler a former coal lobbyist and a pro pollution apologist doesn't care. Just because our scientists publish something in a journal doesnt mean that thats agency policy or all the other scientists at the agency agree with that particular study Wheeler told Reuters. But Wheeler's quick dismissal of the report was followed up by an admission that he had no idea what it actually said. I have not read that article I just saw a news a clip about it but I haven't read it and I haven't talked to the scientist that wrote it Wheeler said. Wheeler was appointed to head the EPA after Trumps first scandal plagued EPA chief Scott Pruitt was ousted. And Wheeler's approach ignoring science in favor of industry and pollution is a perfect reflection of Trump's shameful approach to climate issues. The administration and its officials regularly disregard the scientific consensus about the harms of climate change in order to justify rolling back regulations and trashing initiatives designed to make the world cleaner and safer. Trump himself once infamously promoted the false conspiracy theory that climate change is a hoax from the Chinese government. Currently Trump is trying to create a senior level government panel that would oppose the scientific facts of climate change and instead promote baseless propaganda from pro pollution crackpots. Most U.S. government agencies are refusing to participate in the project. However Trump is still receiving plenty of help from congressional Republicans who refuse to take the climate crisis seriously. Senate Republicans have relentlessly made false and disingenuous attacks on the Green New Deal a sweeping Democratic proposal to help stop climate change before it's too late while also creating jobs and protecting vulnerable communities. And in the House Rep. Thomas Massie R KY made a viral fool of himself by attacking former Secretary of State John Kerry after he tried to raise concerns about how climate change would harm national security. Climate change is real. It is a threat to America and to all of humanity. But Trump and his fellow Republicans refuse to acknowledge reality and they certainly can't be bothered to read scientific reports about it. Published with permission of The American Independent.	False	False	False	True	False
Taking hisprevious statementseven further Interior Secretary David Bernhardt told lawmakers Tuesday that he is not obligated to combat climate change because there is no law requiring that he do so. Bernhardt responded by noting that there are over 600 instances in the law directing the Interior Department secretary to do certain things including completing reports and making certain authorizations but he said there is no such mandate for addressing planetary warming. You know what theres not is a shall for I shall manage the land to stop climate change or something similar to that he said pointing the finger at Congress. The hearing was the first of two appearances Bernhardt has before Congress this week to defend the Trump administrations 2020 budget request which calls for a 14 cut in funding for the Department of the Interior. But a good portion of the discussion focused on climate change environmental protections and an ethics investigation against Bernhardt and several other agency officials. A sobering United Nations report released Monday found that up to 1 million species of land and marine species are at risk of extinction due to human actions. Neither Bernhardt nor the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service an agency he oversees and that is primarily responsible for safeguarding the nations imperiled species issued a statement about the report. Rep. Betty McCollum D Minn. the subcommittees chair quoted from the U.N. report and told Bernhardt the country is depending on you to help lead the fight along with us to combat these issues including the biodiversity and climate crises. She asked Bernhardt how he would incorporate the scientific findings into the agencys activities and asked if he would rethink the administrations push to boost domestic energy production. Are we going to stop oil and gas development because of this report? The answer to that is no Bernhardt said. Congress you all have the ability to decide whether we do anything on federal lands. ... If you have a view on what you want to happen well carry it out when you execute it. That is my position. Bernhardt a former oil and gas lobbyist who was confirmed as agency secretary last month told the subcommittee that he recognizes that the climate is changing that human beings are a contributing factor and that the agency is taking the threat into account in its decision making. A pair of dire reports released last year one from the United Nations and another from more than a dozen federal U.S. agencies warned that world governments are running out of time to stave off catastrophic climate change. Still the Trump administration has barreled ahead with its fossil fuel centric energy dominance agenda.Approximately one quarter of all U.S. greenhouse gas emissions come from fossil fuel extraction on federal lands according to agovernment report released by the Trump administration in November. Bernhardt who brought with him to the job a slew of potential conflicts of interest from his days as an energy lobbyist also faced tough questions Tuesday about alleged ethics violations. Interiors internal watchdog recently opened two ethics probes the first of them just four days into Bernhardts tenure intomultiple high ranking interior officials including the secretary. Bernhardt stressed as he has before that he takes ethics extremely seriously is working to improve the agencys ethics program and is confident that he has complied with all rules and will be cleared at the end of the investigation.	True	False	False	True	False
The Trump administration is challenging California over the state's new automotive emissions and fuel economy framework agreement with automakers insisting setting such standards is the federal government's role. Lawyers at the Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Transportation on Friday sent a letter to the chairman of the California Air Resources Board following California's July framework agreement with Ford Volkswagen Honda and BMW to abide by certain new greenhouse gas emissions standards. The purpose of this letter is to put California on notice that this framework agreement appears to be inconsistent with federal law the letter said. Congress has squarely vested the authority to set fuel economy standards for new motor vehicles and nationwide standards for GHG vehicle emissions with the federal government not with California or any other state. Given the importance Congress placed on the authority of DOT and EPA for motor vehicle fuel economy and nationwide vehicle emissions standards under federal law we urge you to act immediately to disassociate CARB from the commitments made by the four automakers the letter added. California had imposed stricter fuel economy and emissions standards long before July and some of the state's laws were enacted before the Clean Air Act. Congress granted a waiver to allow California to enact its own standards and a dozen other states also adopted California's standards. The varied standards mean automakers have had to make extra effort in either making two types of cars or manufacturing them all in accordance with the higher California standards. President Trump has pushed for months to weaken Obama era mileage standards nationwide. Those standards were designed to make cars more fuel efficient and reduce pollution. The administration moves to rescind California's authority are likely to prompt legal battles. When President George W. Bush challenged California's greenhouse gas emissions and mileage setting ability California fought it in the courts. The Obama administration subsequently dropped the Bush effort. The Trump administration has argued that the extra expense to comply with the emissions requirements will raise the price of new cars making them unaffordable and depriving buyers of new safety technology. Many experts including former EPA engineers have challenged the administration's safety assertion. Mr. Trump has long advocated for the auto industry and his administration has emphasized that environmental concerns cannot trump economic considerations. You know for too long there's been this conventional wisdom that you've got to choose between economic growth and environmental protection Energy Secretary Rick Perry said during a July speech on the environment that avoided any mention of climate change. That's a false choice and it's one that you've talked about Mr. President. It's always been this country and this country that leads just like you reminded people last Thursday the greatness of America the innovation of America. And the future of this world will rely greatly upon America and this administration.	True	True	True	True	True
The people who live there are at risk of lead contamination at every turn. It's in their drinking water and it's in their soil. More than one thousand people were forced to evacuate according to Debbie Chizewer at Northwestern Law School who has worked very closely with the affected residents. A local school was shut down and a public housing complex was also evacuated after soil tests showed lead and arsenic contamination levels 228 times the amount the Environmental Protection Agency considers potentially hazardous to children. It was the first superfund site EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has visited making a trip there Wednesday and the agency said he was the first administrator to visit this particular site. Pruitt visited to discuss cleanup and hear directly from East Chicago residents affected by contamination in their community the agency said in a press release. At a press conference local officials praised Pruitt for visiting the site. The community is what's a called a legacy contamination site. It was listed on the National Priorities List of the worst contaminated hazardous waste sites in the country in 2009. The site includes part of the former USS Lead facility along with nearby commercial municipal and residential areas including the West Calumet public housing complex. Barbara Bolling Williams state president of the Indiana branch of the NAACP said she is cautiously optimistic following Pruitt's visit but added that his visit comes with the threat of a skinnier EPA budget fewer regulations and rumors Chicago's regional EPA office could be shut down looms in the background. The Trump administration's proposed budget calls for a 31 cut to the budget including cuts to the agency's environmental justice program. The program is intended to support poor often minority communities with severe environmental challenges. One week ago the local chapter of the NAACP said it invited Pruitt to a roundtable discussion on environmental justice which happened Wednesday morning. In attendance were residents NAACP national President Cornell Williams Brooks and community members. Pruitt skipped that event and instead invited a group to a meeting of his own at a local school that was shut down as a result of the lead contamination in the community. Bolling Williams who was invited to Pruitt's meeting said Pruitt listened to all of our concerns but he did not offer any solutions. She said her organization wants to see the EPA do more to protect the East Chicago community. The NAACP presented Pruitt with a list of demands including a call for an executive order that would include a greater commitment to communities like East Chicago. We need them to commit to adjusting cleanup plan for the site. Instead of digging up two feet of contaminated soil for disposal digging up eight feet. We want that soil to be disposed of properly so as not to cause further contamination we want continued testing of the soil and ground water in this area and a commitment to ensure the residents exposed to the lead get the physical and mental health care they need for the rest of their life. That includes financial help to make sure that happens. EPA spokesman J.P. Freire told CNN in an email Forget about the politics. Administrator Pruitt was working for environmental justice by meeting with the real residents affected by lead contamination and by committing to get results. In its press release the agency laid out the accomplishments of its cleanup effort under Pruitt East Chicago is receiving 16.5 million in EPA State Revolving Fund SRF funding for drinking water infrastructure upgrades. EPA the state and the city are working together to coordinate lead service line replacement with cleanup work to expedite completion of the work and minimize disruptions. EPA provided 54 homes with filters and bottled water while Superfund work was underway at those properties in Zones 2 and 3. This year Indiana will distribute filters to all residents in Zones 2 and 3. The Natural Resources Defense Council told CNN that Pruitt has yet to respond to its request for more EPA assistance and oversight in the lead problem in East Chicago's drinking water. Those demands include Oversight of East Chicago's ongoing attempts to improve its corrosion control treatment expanded blood lead level testing of children under age 7 bottled water and home water filtration systems to residents throughout the city and testing the city's drinking water to determine the extent of the contamination. During his visit Pruitt provided brief comments at a press conference in East Chicago but quickly exited without answering questions from reporters. The Agency's press release quoted Pruitt saying I'm focused on getting EPA back to the basics of protecting human health and the environment and one of my top priorities is delivering real results for the people of East Chicago.' Pruitt went on Since I was sworn in as administrator funding has been secured for drinking water infrastructure upgrades in East Chicago filters and bottled water have been provided to residents and cleanup of contaminated soil has resumed.	False	True	False	True	False
A climate scientist and a former government expert in the audience for Donald Trumps annual address to Congress said this will probably be the last administration that can forgo talking about climate change in the State of the Union speech. Trump did not mention rising temperatures or extreme weather although he did tout the countrys status as the top producer of oil and gas and boast about how quickly his officials have moved to cut regulations. Lisa Graumlich the dean of the environment college at the University of Washington attended the State of the Union address as a guest of the Washington congresswoman Pramila Jayapal. I have been doing research on climate change since the 1970s and it always seemed very far away in time and space. It was something that was going to happen when peoples grandchildren were alive. And that has changed Graumlich said. I dont think that future presidents will find themselves in this position because people are feeling the effects of climate change. Joel Clement who resigned from the interior department because he said the administration was muzzling scientists and ignoring climate change effects on vulnerable communities now works with the Union of Concerned Scientists. He was invited by the Maine congressman Chellie Pingree. The Trump administrations strategy is to ignore climate change and pretend it doesnt exist and pretend the science doesnt exist even if its coming from its own agencies Clement said. To not say anything about it is just ignorance and its irresponsible. In 10 years Clement said climate change will be central to all policy discussions as one of the top three or four issues in the world Clement said. Several other high profile climate advocates were invited by other Democrats protesting against Trumps doubts of the science and his rollbacks. The New York congressman Paul Tonko invited the League of Conservation Voters Gene Karpinski and the Maryland congressman Jamie Raskin brought along 350.orgs Bill McKibben. The Massachusetts senator Ed Markey attended with the head of the youth led Sunrise Movement Varshini Prakash who is calling for a Green New Deal to tackle inequality and quickly cut greenhouse gas emissions. Markey is expected to join Alexandria Ocasio Cortez this week in releasing expanded language on the high level goals of a Green New Deal. Even the Democratic rebuttal to Trumps speech by the ex Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams only mentioned climate change once in a list of priorities the US could pursue. However Bernie Sanders in his own response speech noted warnings in reports from the UNs Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. How can a president of the United States give a State of the Union speech and not mention not one word about climate change when the leading scientists of the world tell us that climate change is real that climate change is caused by human activity that climate change is already causing devastating harm in the United States Sanders said. Furthermore the scientists tell us we have a very short 12 years not a lot of time in order to transform our energy system away from fossil fuels. While very little of the primetime speeches focused on climate change Democrats will hold two hearings in the House on Wednesday about its effects.	False	False	False	True	False
Washington CNN President Donald Trump spent an hour Thursday talking about his commitment to economic growth and national stability as he announced the decision to back out of the Paris Climate Accord. After famously calling climate change a hoax during the campaign Trump has avoided the issue of increased man made greenhouse gas emissions and their impact on global temperatures. Asked Wednesday if Trump thinks human activity is contributing to climate change White House press secretary Sean Spicer responded Honestly I haven't asked him that. I can get back to you. Two White House officials avoided similar questions at a background briefing with reporters after Trump's speech Thursday. And EPA chief Scott Pruitt dodged the question in an interview with CNN's Jake Tapper. This is not about whether climate change is occurring or not Pruitt said on The Lead. The pattern of the White House has been to turn away from the discussion of climate change without taking the step to argue directly that global warming isn't real. Instead there is an administration wide reluctance to avoid the topic altogether. In recent months Trump proposed cutting the Environmental Protection Agency budget by more than 30. EPA has challenged scientific findings on climate change including by its own in house scientists. And EPA cut climate information from its website. Former deputy EPA administrator under President Barack Obama Bob Perciasepe said the Trump administration's avoidance of the term just makes them seem out of touch with reality. Climate change is happening whether they speak about it or not said Perciasepe who currently serves as president of the nonprofit Center for Climate and Energy Solutions. You can't make something not real if you just don't talk about it. It doesn't change reality it's just a way for them to de emphasize something the rest of the world knows is going on. On Wednesday the White House declared June National Oceans Month and Great Outdoors Month. While the proclamations a relatively standard annual designation praised the US's oceans and natural landscapes the language clearly differed from Obama's. Where Obama's 2016 proclamations discussed the impacts of global warming including drought and rising sea levels Trump's focused on energy production fisheries management and tourism with no mention of climate change. And the administration is adopting the same reasoning in press releases. Last month the Interior Department released a study by the U.S. Geological Survey that highlighted the link between sea level rise and global climate change. Except the release had one thing missing any mention of climate change. Three of the study's scientist authors told The Washington Post that they had to ultimately delete a line from the report that read Global climate change drives sea level rise increasing the frequency of coastal flooding. Instead the USGS release leaves the cause unmentioned . It begins The frequency and severity of coastal flooding throughout the world will increase rapidly and eventually double in frequency over the coming decades even with only moderate amounts of sea level rise. A defense against believing humans are responsible for climate change is that scientific studies are not 100 certain a stance frequently used by members of the Trump administration that muddles the scientific consensus that man made emissions are driving global warming. I think that measuring with precision human activity on the climate is something very challenging to do and there's tremendous disagreement about the degree of impact Pruitt said in a CNBC interview in March . So no I would not agree that it's a primary contributor to the global warming that we see. While the White House may be against jumping to conclusions on the available scientific studies with Pruitt even calling for more data from industry scientists the administration has done little to back up those calls monetarily. In fact instead of spending money to further study the effects and reality or unreality of global warming the administration has opted instead to cut much of the major funding that would go towards the studies. It is hypocritical said Andrew Rosenberg director for the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists. They are complaining about uncertainty but at the same time increasing uncertainty by cutting back on ways to measure climate change. For many the administration's reluctance to deal with the idea of climate change comes down to one thought that economic growth and climate awareness cannot go hand in hand. The idea that they are operating on is that the US will be at a disadvantage if it deals with climate change. Most businesses would think that working on the climate issues can and has been creating jobs said Perciasepe. It can strengthen United States company's competitiveness in the global markets.	True	True	False	True	False
Kirsti McCluer Reuters Golfers play in North Bonneville Washington last fall as the Eagle Creek wildfire burns. The U.N.'sIntergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said the world must drastically cut greenhouse gas emissions to avoid climate disaster. The only force that I know of on the planet that can deliver innovation as quickly as we need it is the free enterprise system said former Rep. Bob Inglis R S.C. now the executive director of RepublicEn a group urging Republicans to support a carbon tax. The report based on more than 6000 scientific references found that world governments have just 12 years to cut planet warming gases 45 percent at a time when humanitys CO2 footprint is rapidly rising and fossil fuel emissions are hitting an all time high. By 2050 emissions need to hit net zero. Failing to do so would be cataclysmic. The IPCC pegged the price of damage caused by 1.5 degrees of warming at 54 trillion a figure that soars to 69 trillion at 2 degrees Celsius or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit of temperature rise. There is near universal agreement that putting a price on carbon dioxide likely through a tax is key to scaling back emissions in much the same way levies on tobacco and alcohol are meant to offset those products societal costs. Last yearSens. Sheldon Whitehouse D R.I. and Brian Schatz D Hawaii and Reps. Earl Blumenauer D Ore. and David Cicilline D R.I.introduced companion carbon tax billsin Congress. In July Reps. Carlos Curbelo R Fla. and Brian Fitzpatrick R Pa. proposed a lower carbon tax earning plaudits for breaking with the Republican orthodoxy calling the very basics of climate change science into question. Its totally unrealistic said Jennifer Francis a research professor at Rutgers University. Were going to need to make a wide range of course corrections to have a hope of achieving 1.5 and also prepare for larger impacts than were already experiencing. Andrew Dessler a climate scientist at Texas AM University cast doubt on the possibility of halting human caused temperature at the 1 degree Celsius average global increase the planet has already experienced. Though he said a carbon tax high enough could reduce emissions arbitrarily fast the result would be soaring energy prices rather than what we want which is a switch to renewables. Asked during an IPCC press conference on Sunday night if carbon pricing could radically overhaul the global economy in the next decade two IPCC authors started to laugh. James Skeaa co chair of an IPCC working group said it was one among that portfolio of instruments that can be used but could not serve as a panacea. A number of insurgent left wing Democrats running in the 2018 midterms including star New York City congressional candidate Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are coalescing around a so called Green New Deal a loose set of proposals to spend trillions in federal dollars on renewable energy projects coastal fortifications and home weatherization retrofits.Polling released last month shows swelling support for a federal policy guaranteeing a high wage job in a green industry to anyone who wants one. Last month California became the biggest state to pass alaw requiring 100 percent clean electricityby 2045. In a surprise move Gov. Jerry Brown D also signed an executive order mandating the changessweep extend beyond utilities to the entire economy including vehicles the nations largest source of carbon pollution. Curbelo and Fitzpatrick did not respond to requests for comment Monday. Nor did the oil giant Exxon Mobil Corp. which spent decades financing a network of climate change misinformation before announcing its support for a carbon tax or the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative a corporate consortium that advocates for what it calls practical solutions to climate change. But for some conservative climate hawks the reality of the IPCC report hit home. Jerry Taylor a former climate denier who in recent years became the poster boy for Republican climate realism said he sticks by a carbon tax as the best solution but believes keeping warming within 1.5 degrees is unrealistic at this point regardless of policy. A steep enough global economy wide price on carbon could do it but thats not likely to happen said Taylor the president of the libertarian Niskanen Center. Hence the 1.5 C target is aspirational not functional. Over lunch at a conference last week Flint staked out his opposition to the Obama administrations use of executive authority to regulate carbon dioxide emissions. A former Trump transition team official he described himself as a sherpa for Interior Secretary Ryan Zinkes confirmation process. Now he says hes trying to get politicians to catch up with the science. Asked where the line is between what critics said was the previous administrations federal overreach and attempting to stave off the worst of what the IPCC predicted Flint went quiet for a while.	True	True	False	True	True
Humans are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of species not seen since the demise of the dinosaurs British scientists warned. Man made global change is threatening the diversity of different creatures that have taken millennia to evolve to live in niche habitats. Creatures that have moved into delicate ecosystems such as coral reefs often live in symbiosis with others and are the slowest to recover their diversity if damaged. But global warming and rising sea levels threatened to wipe out many species that cannot adapt to change quickly enough in a blink of an eye. In particular freshwater habitats are teeming with diverse birds and mammals but they are often form isolated pockets which are vulnerable to sudden change. Professor of Evolutionary Paleobiology Matthew Wills at the Milner Centre for Evolution at the University of Bath said We are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of a magnitude unparalleled since the asteroid impact that wiped out the dinosaurs. Astonishingly we know remarkably little about the physical and biological forces that shape patterns of diversity on a global scale. For example why are there over a million species of insects but only 32 species in their immediate sister group the little known remipedes? Diversity takes millions of years to evolve but can be damaged in the blink of an eye. We are already losing diversity that has never even been documented so it's vitally important to understand the mechanisms that drive evolution into new species. The scientists looked at how the humble caridean shrimp has evolved and diversified since it first appeared in the Lower Jurassic. There are now around 3500 species worldwide living in salt and fresh water habitats and are a vital component of the marine food chain and an important contribution to fisheries worldwide. Research Fellow Dr Katie Davis an evolutionary palaeobiologist at the University of York explained Understanding the processes that shaped the strikingly irregular distribution of species richness across the Tree of Life is a major research agenda. Changes in ecology may go some way to explain the often strongly asymmetrical fates of sister clades and we test this in the caridean shrimps. There are depending upon estimates between two and 50 million extant species of animals Metazoa all derived from a single common ancestral species that lived some 650 million years ago. Net rates of speciation therefore exceed rates of extinction but the balance of these processes varies greatly both between clades and throughout geological time. The scientists examined the patterns of diversity change across the crustaceans's evolutionary tree. By time calibrating the largest ever evolutionary tree for carideans against both fossil and molecular dates it was possible to explore where rates of diversification sped up and slowed down over the last 200 million years. They found the shrimp have independently transitioned from marine to freshwater habitats repeatedly creating much richer pockets of biodiversity. The relative isolation of lakes and rivers appear to increase the diversity of species in a similar way to Darwin's finches on island chains. But rising sea levels caused by climate change could put these pockets at risk disrupting these freshwater distributions and leading to extinctions as a result. By contrast many marine shrimp live in close symbiotic associations with a variety of other animals including corals and sponges which appears to have slowed their diversification rate. Symbioses are most common in shallow reef settings among the most diverse but notoriously delicately balanced and threatened marine ecosystems. The researchers said lower rates of diversification mean it will take longer for carideans to recover from the extinctions that are already inevitably underway. Co author Sammy de Grave head of research at the Oxford University Museum added The study was published in the journal Communications Biology.	False	False	False	False	False
President Trump on Wednesday signed two executive orders that will make it harder for states to block the construction of oil and gas pipelines and other energy projects due to environmental concerns. Coming on the heels of officials in Washington state and New York using permitting processes to stop new energy projects in recent years and at the urging of some industry leaders Trumps executive order willspeed up the construction of oil and gas pipelines across the country. My action today will cut through the destructive permitting and denials Trump said during the signing of the executive orders at the International Union of Operating Engineers International Training and Education Center a union run facility in Crosby Texas. Under this administration weve ended the war on American energy. It will take no more than 60 days Trump said of the approval process for new pipelines and the president not the bureaucracy will make the final decision. While the move was greeted warmly by members of the countrys oil and gas industries it is likely to rankle some more traditional conservative lawmakers including several Republican governors worried about the federal government impinging on individual state rights and governance. The White House has sought to stave off any discord by arguing that the order is not meant to take power away from the states but to ensure that state actions follow the intent of the Clean Water Act. Trade groups representing the oil and gas industry applauded the orders and said greater access to natural gas benefits families and the environment. When states say 'no' to the development of natural gas pipelines they force utilities to curb safe and affordable service and refuse access to new customers including new businesses said Karen Harbert president and CEO at the American Gas Association. Trump's move comes less than a week after nearly a dozen business groups told EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler that the environmental review and permitting process for energy infrastructure projects has become a target for environmental activists and states that oppose the production and use of fossil fuels. The groups said in an April 5 letter that individual states shouldn't be able to use provisions of the Clear Air Act to dictate national policy thereby harming other states and the national interest and damaging cooperative federalism. Washington state blocked the building of a coal terminal in 2017 saying there were too many major harmful impacts including air pollution rail safety and vehicle traffic. New York regulators stopped a natural gas pipeline saying it failed to meet standards to protect streams wetlands and other water resources. Under Section 401 of the Clean Water Act companies must get certification from the state before moving ahead with an energy project. One of Trump's planned executive orders calls for the Environmental Protection Agency to consult with states tribes and others before issuing new guidance and rules for states on how to comply with the law. Environmental groups described Trump's order as an effort to short circuit a state's ability to review complicated projects putting at risk a state's ability to protect drinking water supplies and wildlife. The Trump Administration's proposal would trample on state authority to protect waters within their own borders said Jim Murphy senior counsel for the National Wildlife Federation. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The private Center for Biological Diversity said Wednesday's actions would mark the fourth time Trump has used executive orders to streamline permits for fossil fuel infrastructure. Trump's developing an addiction to executive orders that rubberstamp these climate killing projects said Brett Hartl government affairs director at the center. The second executive order Trump signed on Wednesday streamlines the process for energy infrastructure that crosses international borders. Currently the secretary of state has the authority to issue permits for cross border infrastructure such as pipelines. The executive order clarifies that the president will make the decision on whether to issue such permits. The move follows Trump's decision last month to issue a new presidential permit for the long stalled Keystone XL oil pipeline two years after he first approved it and more than a decade after it was first proposed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False	False	False	False	False
US President Donald Trump is taking California to task for the management of its forests and dams blaming red tape for the devastating forest fires and drought plaguing the bluest of blue states and threatening to withhold aid. Speaking at a White House address on Tuesday Trumpwas shocked that Californians weren't using the water contained by their dams to put out the fires and irrigate their fields. We have so much water they could actually water some of it he said in disbelief. About half 48 percent of California's land is currently experiencing drought conditions which combined with high temperatures and strong winds are largely to blame for the record setting rash of fires in the state according to state fire chiefs. Trump a proud climate change skeptic attributes the fires to lousy management. He has repeatedly said the forests are too dense and need to be thinned a problem the logging industry would be happy to help with. As for the water it's Trump vs. the Delta smelt an endangered fish scientists argue can only be saved if the dammed waters are allowed to flow into the ocean instead of being used to irrigate the farms and homes of California residents. Trump wants to redistribute that water to Californians he says. Trump threatened to withhold future federal aid if Californiadoes not get on the ball implying that the state's environmental woes were its own fault. It's hard not to think there's an element of spite in this rhetoric as wealthy and influential Californians led talk of secession following Trump's 2016 election victory. Last week Trump signed a memo geared toward improving the reliable supply and delivery of water in California Oregon and Washington by streamlining environmental review and approval for water infrastructure projects. It's not a good week for the Delta smelt. Trump announced yesterday he will nominate Aurelia Skipwith a former Monsanto lawyer as director of the Fish and Wildlife Service. While she has worked for the department since 2013 environmentalists accuse her of gutting protections for migratory birds and endangered species.	False	False	False	False	False
More than 380 people have been confirmed dead after a tsunami triggered by a magnitude 7.5 earthquake hit an Indonesian city on Friday. Waves up to 3m 10ft high swept through Palu on Sulawesi island. Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque among the buildings damaged. Strong aftershocks rocked the city on Saturday. Thousands of homes have collapsed along with hospitals hotels and a shopping centre. Rescue efforts are under way though hampered by a major power cut. The main road to Palu has been blocked due to a landslide and a key bridge is out of action. Indonesia's disaster agency said at least 384 people had been killed but the number is expected to rise. At least 540 have been injured and 29 are listed as missing. Many bodies were found along the shoreline because of the tsunami but the numbers are still unknown Sutopo Purwo Nugroho a spokesman for the agency told Reuters. When the threat arose yesterday people were still doing their activities on the beach and did not immediately run and they became victims he told a news briefing. The tsunami didn't come by itself it dragged cars logs houses it hit everything on land. Some survived by climbing 6m 18ft trees to escape the huge waves the spokesman said. A less powerful quake earlier on Friday had killed at least one person and injured at least 10 in the smaller fishing town of Donggala. In Palu hundreds of people had been preparing for a beach festival that was due to start on Friday night. The city's main hospital was damaged in the quake and TV footage showed dozens of injured people being treated outside in makeshift medical tents. Palu and Donggala are home to more than 600000 people. President Joko Widodo said troops were en route to the area to reinforce rescue teams and help retrieve bodies. The main airport in Palu has been closed since the tsunami hit. A minister said the runway had been damaged but that it was hoped helicopters would still be able to land. The country's military is sending cargo planes of relief aid from the capital Jakarta. Officials are urging locals not to enter their homes and to sleep away from buildings due to the risk of aftershocks. The earthquake hit just off central Sulawesi at a depth of 10km 6.2 miles just before 1800 on Friday 1000 GMT the US Geological Survey said. A tsunami warning was issued but lifted within the hour. Indonesia's meteorological agency has been criticised for its response but officials said the waves struck while the warning was in place. Dramatic video of the tsunami hitting Palu shows the high waves sweeping away several buildings and then the large tilted mosque in the town about 80km from the quake's epicentre. The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed. There is a ship washed ashore said Dwikorita Karnawati head of Indonesia's meteorology and geophysics agency. A 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia. Indonesia is prone to earthquakes because it lies on the Ring of Fire the line of frequent quakes and volcanic eruptions that circles virtually the entire Pacific rim. More than half of the world's active volcanoes above sea level are part of the ring. Just last month a series of deadly earthquakes struck the Indonesian island of Lombok. The biggest on 5 August killed more than 460 people. Have you been affected by the earthquake? If it is safe to do so share your experience by emailing haveyoursay Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways	False	False	False	False	False
In the first significant check on the Trump administrations energy first agenda a US judge has temporarily halted hundreds of drilling projects for failing to take climate change into account. Drilling had been stalled on more than 300000 acres of public land in Wyoming after it was ruled the Trump administration violated environmental laws by failing to consider greenhouse gas emissions. The federal judge has ordered the Bureau of Land Management BLM which manages US public lands and issues leases to the energy industry to redo its analysis. The decision stems from an environmental lawsuit. WildEarth Guardians Physicians for Social Responsibility and the Western Environmental Law Center sued the BLM in 2016 for failing to calculate and limit the amount of greenhouse gas emissions from future oil and gas projects. The agency did not adequately quantify the climate change impacts of oil and gas leasing said Rudolph Contreras a US district judge in Washington DC in a ruling late on Tuesday. He added that the agency must consider the cumulative impact of GHG greenhouse gas emissions generated by past present and future BLM leases across the country. The decision is the first significant check on the climate impact of the Trump administrations energy first agenda that has opened up vast swaths of public land for mining and drilling. Environmental advocates are praising the move with Jeremy Nichols WildEarth Guardians Climate and Energy Program director calling it a triumph for our climate. This ruling says that the entire oil gas drilling program is off the rails and moving forward illegally said Nichols. Under Trump the pace of leasing public lands for oil and gas development has surged. A recent study found the administration has made more than 13m onshore acres available for leasing far more than any similar period under Obama. The vast majority are located in the western states of Colorado Montana New Mexico Nevada Utah and Wyoming. The administration also plans to make large portions of the Atlantic available for oil and gas development and the interior department has been criticized for favoring the energy industry. The BLM did not reply to a request for comment. The Western Energy Alliance one of the defendants in the case also did not respond to a request. Kathleen Sgamma its president told the Washington Post This judge has ignored decades of legal precedent in this ruling. The judge is basically asking BLM to take a wild guess on how many wells will be developed on leases prematurely. Nichols predicts there will be implications for public lands across the west. His group is now poised to bring litigation to block drilling on hundreds of thousands of acres in other states. With the science mounting that we need to aggressively rein in greenhouse gases this ruling is monumental said Kyle Tisdel attorney and energy and communities program director for the Western Environmental Law Center. Every acre of our public land sold to the oil and gas industry is another blow to the climate making this ruling a powerful reality check on the Trump administration and a potent tool for reining in climate pollution.	False	False	False	False	False
Not that surprising except this was a Senate committee field hearing challenging the position shared by President Donald Trump and many Republicans in Congress that climate change isn't real. The site of the hearing just four miles from Trump's weekend getaway in Palm Beach was clearly intended to send a signal Much of Florida's coastline could one day be underwater including some of the President's own prized properties. Today we sit at ground zero of the impacts of climate change in the US Florida Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson said. And while there are still some who continue to deny climate change is real South Florida offers proof that it is real and it's an issue we're going to be grappling with for decades to come. Data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration show that Trump's Mar a Lago Club and his condominiums in Hollywood Florida would be partially submerged if sea level rose three feet by the end of the century. Already Hollywood experiences more incidents of tidal flooding. NOAA itself in a recent report raised the specter of millions of coastal residents in the United States especially along the low lying East Coast being displaced by coastal flooding. The agency outlined how sea levels could rise by at least four to five feet by century's end engulfing numerous coastal communities or making flooding so frequent as to render them uninhabitable. What we thought was extremely rare large floods invading coastal cities on a regular basis is becoming more and more probable said William Sweet an oceanographer at NOAA and the report's lead author. The gap between our infrastructure and the global sea level is narrowing A recent study published in Nature concluded that with the acceleration of ice melt in Antarctica sea levels could rise to six feet by 2100. At that point Trump's golf course at Doral Florida and several properties at Sunny Isles Beach would also be under water. The fact that Trump's own properties are vulnerable to the impact of climate change is paradoxical given that the EPA is poised to undo President Barack Obama's plan to cut greenhouse gas emissions from coal fired power plants. In a now infamous 2012 tweet Trump claimed that global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing non competitive. The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non competitive. Donald J. Trump November 6 2012 The Senate Commerce Science and Transportation Committee hearing was conducted by Nelson the panel's ranking member but it was authorized by Republican Sen. John Thune of South Dakota the committee's chairman who has acknowledged human activity is responsible for climate change. Climate change is not just a threat to our planet's future it's a threat to our communities today. Thanks for this hearing. pic.twitter.comixO6VhRhrO Rep. Ted Deutch April 10 2017 Thune told Fox News anchor Chris Wallace in a 2014 interview for example Well look climate change is occurring it's always occurring Chris. There are a number of factors that contribute to that including human activity. The question is what are we going to do about it and at what cost? Trump has proposed slashing the EPA budget by a third and eliminating many climate change programs entirely. But when it comes to his own property in Ireland a golf course and resort in the small town of Doonbeg the President took a more proactive approach. He proposed to build a wall to fight coastal erosion by the course's sand dunes which eroded after heavy storms in 2014. After several attempts to gain approval the President refiled an application in December 2016 and is still waiting to get an authorization from the local county council. For many coastal communities the problems have already begun. Flooding and high winds are more frequent said Sweet the NOAA oceanographer. Hurricane Sandy broke through the sea walls of several homes near Mar a Lago in 2012 and Palm Beach County had to restore more than 20 acres of eroded seashore. Miami meanwhile is investing millions of dollars to raise the level of its properties its roads and water systems as protection against flooding. Other cities like Norfolk Virginia and Charleston South Carolina that are at risk of extreme flooding are also trying to deal with the issue. Christina DeConcini director of government affairs for the environmental group World Resources Institute said the US needs a fact based approach for how to address this clear and present danger to America's infrastructure homes and businesses. What won't solve the problem is putting our heads in the Florida sand while streets and basements flood around us she said in a statement. Palm Beach County Commissioner Steven Abrams downplayed the political aspects of the Senate committee hearing in a statement Friday. Sea level rise and coastal flooding driven by climate change pose real significant risks to our residents and should not be politicized he said.	False	False	False	False	False
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke let the mask slip this week turning the subtext of his term in office backing fossil fuels into the headline as he spoke to a friendly audience. On Tuesday Zinke gave the keynote address at the Louisiana Oil and Gas Associations fall meeting in Lafayette Louisiana. He told the conference over lunch our government should work for you according to organizers You can debate what Zinke meant by work for you but many heard it as a pledge of allegiance to the industry. And according to the Louisiana Oil and Gas Association the industry members in the room were thrilled with the pledge giving Zinke a standing ovation. An organizer told me none of the speeches at the event were recorded. However environmental activists and some lawmakers were appalled by the statement. And then that evening Zinkes official Twitter account went into damage control mode implying the message was meant for a broader audience rather than just the industries hes supposed to regulate. But Zinke has said pretty much the same thing before. In March he told an energy industry conference Interior should not be in the business of being an adversary. We should be in the business of being a partner. For the record the Interior Departments job is to manage about 75 percent of federal public land which amounts to about one fifth of the total area of the United States. This means conservation preserving culture and facilitating recreation. It also entails leasing rights to mining drilling grazing and logging. However it does not mean that the agency needs to advance the fossil fuel industrys interests certainly not at the expense of the environment. But the Interior Department under Zinke has been pushing much harder to open up public lands to private companies while drastically rolling back its environmental responsibilities. Our mandate is multiple use of public lands and multiple use also includes the development of natural resources as we seek to leverage American energy for American strength Zinke wrote in the departments 2018 22 strategic plan. One place weve seen Zinke pick sides is in his response to Californias record wildfires. Rather than acknowledging the role of climate change in increasing fire risks he blamed environmental terrorist groups while calling for more private logging on public lands. Zinkes words have been loud but his actions have been even louder. Under Zinke weve seen the largest rollback of federal land protections in US history. He also opened nearly all US coastal waters to offshore oil and gas drilling preparing for the largest lease sale in US history. The National Park Service which is part of the Interior Department proposed more than doubling national park entrance fees before settling on increases of 5 to 10. The Bureau of Land Management also part of the Interior Department announced this week it was revising its rules on methane emissions from gas drilling on public lands. Interior is also pushing for more roads in wilderness areas dialing back conservation plans for wildlife and selling leases for Arctic oil and gas drilling. The agency canceled a study looking into the health impacts of coal mining and dismissed violations committed by coal companies. Taken together its pretty clear who Zinke is working for. However the Trump administration has the odd habit of stumbling over itself. President Donald Trumps trade war is already threatening to undo gains for the fossil fuel industry as China readies tariffs on US energy. Zinke himself tendencies exhibited by former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt that have invited scrutiny from lawmakers. Hes opaque with his schedule obscuring his dealings with the energy industry. He took a 12000 flight on an oil executives charter plane. He was involved in a land deal with the chair of Halliburton which may have violated conflict of interest rules. The Government Accountability Office had to end a probe in June into whether Zinke threatened Sen. Lisa Murkowski R AK over her vote on Obamacare because the Interior Department didnt cooperate. He also has his office fly a secretarial flag when hes in the building and minted his own challenge coin. With Pruitt no longer sucking the oxygen out of the room congressional Democrats are now eyeing Zinke and have promised more investigations of his conduct should they take control of the House in the fall. Zinke is one the most ethically challenged members of the Cabinet and maybe one of the most ethically challenged secretaries of the Interior weve had in living memory Rep. Gerry Connolly D VA who could chair the House Oversight Government Operations Subcommittee if Democrats win in November told Politico this week. Theres rich material here to look into his behavior and his fitness for continued service in the office.	False	False	False	False	False
ASSOCIATED PRESS Sen. Bernie Sanders I Vt. is hosting a livestreamedsummit on climate change next month intensifying pressure on the new Congress and TV networks to devote attention to the crisis. We need millions of people all over this country to stand up and demand fundamental changes in our energy policy in order to protect our kids and our grandchildren and the planet Sanders told HuffPost by phone. The good news is the American people are beginning to stand up and fight back. The event bolsters Sandersa likely contender for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination as the most serious candidate on climate change offering a far more comprehensive response than rival progressive Sen. Elizabeth Warren D Mass. who staked out a climate policy based on a bill to force public companies to disclose financial risk from warming or regulations to curb emissions. The summit which took months to plan will take place less than a month after Rep. elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. propelled talk of a so called Green New Deal into the Democratic mainstream giving play for the first time to the sort of federal response to climate change scientists say is necessary to fully meet the scale of the crisis. In October the United Nations concluded world governments must halve emissions over the next 12 years or risk catastrophic warming with 54 trillion in damage. What we are seeing is a growing consciousness Sanders said. The horrors that weve seen in California in the largest forest fire that that state has ever experienced this is not going to be an anomaly unless we begin the long hard struggle to transform our energy system. Climate remains a low priority for most voters. Just 38 percent of registered voters said candidates positions on global warming would be very important to their voting decisions according to a Yale Program On Climate Change Communication survey published in May. Rising temperatures ranked 15th of 28 issues voters ranked in the questionnaire. In the lead up to the 2018 midterm elections the fossil fuel industry spent 100 million to crush pro climate ballot measures across the West and to prop up candidates who supported increased oil and gas extraction. Yet that base of climate hawks helped elect a cadre of Democrats whose urgent visions for climate action earned plaudits from a spectrum ranging from mainstream environmental groups to so called eco socialists. And a new majority of Democratic stateattorneys general are facing growing pressure to file lawsuits over climate damages. Activists freshly galvanized by the hellscape images of Californias deadliest wildfire seem primed for action and the partys progressive wing has signaled a new willingness to force a more serious debate over an issue thats remained stagnant in the House for much of the past decade. The fact that climate change is that high among the base of one of our two major political parties is remarkable because that was not the case even five years ago said Anthony Leiserowitz a senior research scientist and Yales climate program director. If you think of Bernie youd think hed be talking about inequality or civil rights. Theres a whole host of progressive issues yet this is the one hes leading with. It may suggest theres been an alignment of the stars. Last week youth activists with the grassroots climate group Sunrise Movement staged sit ins in the offices of House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi D Calif. and Rep. Frank Pallone D N.J. the likely next chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee who opposed the creation of a select committee on a Green New Deal. The horrors that weve seen in California in the largest forest fire that that state has ever experienced this is not going to be an anomaly unless we being the long hard struggle to transform our energy system. He helped popularize things like Medicare for All a living wage and a lot of other fights hes taken up said Varshini Prakash the co founder of Sunrise Movement. I hope he pushes for a Green New Deal and helps really add fuel to the fire thats been lit under politicians and the public over the past week. Sanders stopped short of endorsing the Green New Deal. But in April 2017 he co sponsored legislation to move the United States to 100 percent clean energy by 2050. The bill included 7 billion in targeted infrastructure and environmental investments in fossil fuel communities and called for union labor protections for workers on federally backed green jobs. In November 2017 Sanders introduced a bill to spend 146 billion rebuilding storm ravaged Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands with renewable energy. Seventy one percent of major televised debates in the 2018 midterm elections ignored the issue completely. Only four of the 107 segments ABC CBS and NBC aired from Nov. 8 to Nov. 13 on the deadly wildfires scorching California this month discussed climate change. In 2017 the influential Sunday morning talk shows on ABC CBS NBC and Fox News aired a combined 260 minutes of climate coverage 79 percent of which focused exclusively on President Donald Trumps personal beliefs on science and his decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement.	False	False	False	False	False
Two water districts in Sacramento California are suing the US government for nearly one and a half billion dollars for groundwater cleanup. Plaintiffs claim heavy metals used by aircraft maintenance crews at the old McClellan Air Force Base have contaminated over 300 sites. The lawsuits named the US Air Force and 10 major firms involved in supplying chromium products and chemicals to the base and was filed by the Sacramento Suburban Water District and the Rio Linda Elverta Community Water District according to the Sacramento Bee. At contention is whether the cancer causing chemical hexavalent chromium or chromium 6 came from the base which was designated a federal Superfund site in 1987 for 326 contaminated sites identified for cleanup. They knew or should have known that this harmful compound would reach groundwater pollute drinking supplies render drinking water unusuable and unsafe and threaten the public health and welfare stated the complaint which claims an underground storage tank likely held the chemical. The lawsuits demands more than 1.4 billion to clean up the polluted wells install treatment equipment and replace wells that have been decommissioned for being polluted with chromium 6. Sacramento Suburban seeks to recover the substantial costs necessary to protect the public and restore its damaged drinking water supply the water districts lawsuit filed in federal court in Sacramento says as part of its claim seeking 1.1 billion in damages. Rio Linda Elvertas claim seeks more than 289 million in damages. Chrome 6 is a highly toxic compound and it shouldnt be in the water Victor Sher a San Francisco environmental attorney representing the plaintiffs said Tuesday. Water districts are constantly balancing risks against cost he said adding Theyre committed to delivering water that is as free as possible of contaminants but doing so is expensive. Plaintiffs argued that as far back as 1984 McClellan had burn and burial pits trenches and unlined ponds and ditches contaminated with chemicals. Contaminated with plating wastes solvents acids waste oils paint thinners strippers and sludges and other hazardous compounds the lawsuits stated. Plaintiffs argue that the chemicals have been found in groundwater under the base as high as 840 parts per billion six times higher than levels that decrease away from the air base. The state set a maximum concentration for chromium 6 as 10 parts per billion in 2014. The Air Force denied Rio Linda Elvertas claim in a May 9 letter before the district sued in federal court on June 30. The Air Force had consistently denied responsibility for polluting the groundwater around the base which operated from 1936 through 2001 before being converted to a business park. In addition to the Air Force the water district lawsuits name 10 firms they say were associated with providing chemicals to the base Elementis Chromium Inc. Occidental Chemical Corp. Honeywell Inc. BASF Corp. PPG Inc. E.I. Du Pont De Nemours and Co. Luxfer Holdings PLC Sigma Aldrich Corp. and Dow Chemical Co. Officials with Sacramento Suburban which serves 175000 customers just east of the old base and Rio Linda Elverta which serves about 15000 customers to the west of the base say the water they are currently providing is safe. A 2016 Harvard study of some36000 EPA water samples taken from 2013 to 2015 at industrial sites military fire training locations airports and wastewater treatments plants containedlevels of perfluoroalkyl substances PFASs or perfluorinated chemicals that go beyond what is considered safe by the federal government. Researchers determined that drinking water for 6 million in the US is at or beyond the EPA safety threshold for PFAS levels. Xindi Hu the study's lead author warned that the actual number of people exposed may be even higher than our study found because government data for levels of these compounds in drinking water is lacking for almost a third of the U.S. populationabout 100 million people.	False	False	False	False	False
The United States submitted a formal notification that it will withdraw from the Paris climate agreement Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced Monday a move that has been widely expected since President Trump announced his intention to do so in 2017. The climate agreement which went into force Nov. 4 2016 committed countries that signed the measure to take certain voluntary steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The agreement was not legally enforceable and countries set their own emissions targets. The accord banned countries from announcing their intent to withdraw in its first three years meaning Monday was the first day the U.S. was allowed to submit its intent to leave the agreement since it went into force in 2016. President Trump made the decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement because of the unfair economic burden imposed on American workers businesses and taxpayers by U.S. pledges made under the Agreement Pompeo said in a statement. The United States has reduced all types of emissions even as we grow our economy and ensure our citizens access to affordable energy. LEONARDO DICAPRIO PRAISES GRETA THUNBERG AS 'A LEADER OF OUR TIME' Trump has previously said that the Paris climate agreement harms the U.S. economy and would hurt American jobs if left to stand. Compliance with the terms of the Paris accord and the onerous energy restrictions it has placed on the United States could cost America as much as 2.7 million lost jobs by 2025 according to the National Economic Research Associates Trump said in the Rose Garden in 2017 when he announced plans to remove the U.S. from the accord. This includes 440000 fewer manufacturing jobs not what we need believe me this is not what we need including automobile jobs and the further decimation of vital American industries on which countless communities rely. They rely for so much and we would be giving them so little. Some opponents of the agreement have noted that countries such as Russia and China were not affected as significantly by the accord as the United States and pointed out the unencouraging results of the Kyoto Protocol raising questions about whether the Paris agreement would reduce global greenhouse gas emissions at all. GRETA THUNBERG TURNS DOWN ENVIRONMENTAL PRIZE SAYS 'CLIMATE MOVEMENT DOES NOT NEED ANY MORE AWARDS' Half of the countries that were legally bound to the Kyoto Protocol treaty failed to adhere to their pledges and the host country of Japan even increased their carbon emissions Sen. Jim Inhofe R Okla. said as the Paris climate agreement was being debated in 2016. Now we find ourselves celebrating an agreement where the worlds largest carbon emitter China is permitted to increase their emissions until 2025 and to continue bringing a coal fired power plant online every 10 days. We even turn a blind eye to the fact that China lied about its carbon emissions when it first came to the table with its pledge last year. Others however see America backing out of the international pact to limit greenhouse gas emissions as an abdication of global leadership and denial of basic climate science. By withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement to double down on a coal fossil fuel energy agenda Trump has engaged in a unilateral disarmament in the economic arms race that is the transition to clean energy said Michael Mann a climate scientist and professor at Penn State University. The challenge of averting dangerous and irreversible climate change and massive coastal inundation devastating floods and droughts is that much more an uphill climb with Trump's pullout from the Paris agreement. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In his statement Monday however Pompeo maintained that the United States was on the right track both economically and environmentally. Our results speak for themselves he wrote. U.S. emissions of criteria air pollutants that impact human health and the environment declined by 74 percent between 1970 and 2018. U.S. net greenhouse gas emissions dropped 13 percent from 2005 2017 even as our economy grew over 19 percent.	False	False	False	False	False
Last month during an episode of CNBCs Squawk Box Scott Pruitt the head of the Environmental Protection Agency said that he did not consider carbon emissions to be a primary contributor to global warming. Pruitt was pretty steadfast in his position then however on Sunday he was forced to entertain the possibility that he might be wrong during an interview with Fox Newss Chris Wallace. After referencing Pruitts statement from last month Wallace said that there are all kinds of studies that contradict him. The Fox News Sunday anchor went on to reference a report from the U.N. that says it is 95 percent likely that human activity has caused the majority of the warming that has taken place since the mid 20th century. The report also determines thatthere is more carbon dioxide now than in the last 400000 years and that2015 and 2016 were the two hottest years on record. After listing this information Wallace then asked Mr. Pruitt are we supposed to believe thats all a coincidence? Unable to give a straight answer Pruitt first admitted that human activity does contribute to the current warming trend. He then quickly moved on to accusing President Obama of reimagining authority with his clean power plan and praised Trumps recent executive order undoing environmental regulations that Obama put in place. Wallace quickly called Pruitt out on his inability to answer the question saying Sir youre sugar coating what you have said. You said there that you would not agree that carbon CO2 is a primary contributor to global warming. And the question I have is what if youre wrong? What if in fact the Earth is warming what if it is causing dramatic climate change and that we as humans through carbon emissions are contributing to it? Backed into a corner Pruitt conceded that CO2 does contribute to global warming although he followed up this concession by saying The issue is how much we contribute to it from a human activity perspective and what can be done about it from a process perspective. Wallace responded by asking But dont you think the fact that we have these coal power plants belching carbon emissions into the air you dont think that plays a role? Realizing that he wasnt going to get anywhere with Pruitt on that particular issue Wallace switched gears slightly to ask a final question about the Trump administrations proposed cuts to the EPA. Once again Pruitt took the question as an opportunity to criticize the Obama administration saying that in the past there has been a lack of commitment to state partnership. When Wallace asked him if he was sure that the states would pick up the slack Pruitt said that he had met with several governors who had confirmed that they would. Whether or not thats actually true remains to be seen. Watch the interview below via YouTube. Featured image is a screenshot from the video.	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON Reuters The U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee passed a spending bill on Thursday evening that includes 10 million to help fund the United Nations climate change body that oversees the Paris Climate Agreement despite President Donald Trumps decision to stop funding it. The 30 member Senate panel which allocates federal funds to various government agencies and organizations approved a 51 billion spending bill for the State Department and foreign operations which included an amendment to continue funding the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change as well as the scientific body the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The amendment passed even though the 2018 budget proposal that Trump a Republican introduced earlier this year eliminated support of any mechanism to finance climate change projects in developing countries and organizations. The United States is still a party to the 1992 UNFCCC which oversees the Paris agreement although Trump announced in June that he would withdraw the nation from the global climate pact and cease funding the Green Climate Fund which supports clean energy and climate adaptation projects in vulnerable countries. The United States has usually contributed to around 20 percent of the UNFCCC budget. Democratic Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon the amendments author said on Twitter on Thursday Despite dangerous decision unwillingness to act we can will fight back to combat The amendment passed 16 14. Republican Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lamar Alexander of Tennessee voted in favor as did all committee Democrats except for West Virginias Joe Manchin. Although the United States announced it would no longer be a party to the Paris Climate Agreement a pact that nearly 200 countries approved in 2015 to combat global warming it has said it will continue to observe the ongoing negotiations. In a diplomatic cable that Reuters obtained last month Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said U.S. diplomats should sidestep questions from foreign governments on how the United States plans re engage in the global Paris climate agreement. The cable also said diplomats should make clear that the United States wants to help other countries use fossil fuels which have been linked to global warming. L1N1KU0UP	False	False	False	False	False
I actually did feel there was a real chance that he might come to his senses and stay in the Paris Agreement said Gore who has spent years in pursuit of action on climate change and on Tuesday joined CNN for a town hall moderated by Anderson Cooper. Gore met with Trump after the 2016 election at the invitation of Ivanka Trump and he spoke again with the President by phone in early May. But Gore's and Ivanka's influence clearly was not enough. After some delay Trump announced in the Rose Garden in June that he intended to pull the United States out of the climate agreement. Gore declined to get into the details of his private conversations with Trump but said those conversations had left him with reason to believe Trump would keep the United States in the agreement but added that thankfully his worst fears about the withdrawal were not realized. I was worried that other countries might use it as an excuse to pull out themselves Gore said. But I was gratified when the next day the entire rest of the world doubled down on the commitment to meet the terms of the Paris Agreement and then in this country so many governors and mayors and business leaders said 'We're still in.' Gore said that even with Trump's decision the United States could still manage to meet its own commitments under the Paris Agreement. The town hall featured people across the country who challenged Gore on the issue or asked his thoughts. Mayor James Eskridge of Tangier Island Virginia said his home town needed a sea wall to fight erosion but claimed sea level rise was not affecting them. I'm not a scientist but I'm a keen observer Eskridge said. And if sea level rise is occurring why am I not seeing signs of it? Earth to warm 2 degrees Celsius by the end of this century studies say Gore said he was aware of the town's situation and said the town was losing ground to rising seas. Tangier Island gained national prominence after Trump called Eskridge in response to a CNN piece on the town. Arguments about science aren't necessarily going to be of any comfort to you Gore said. Won't necessarily do you any good for me to tell you that the scientists do say the sea level is rising in the Chesapeake Bay and that you've lost about two thirds of your island already. Eskridge stood by his claim saying If I see sea level rise occurring I'll shout it from the house top. ... I'm just not seeing it. Gore said it was hard to translate what scientists said into something readily observable and believable. I try every day to figure out ways to do that he said. Gore warned there could be visible signs of a changing climate including stronger hurricanes due to rising ocean temperatures. As the oceans get warmer these ocean based storms get a lot stronger he said. There may not be more hurricanes but the ones that do come are on average likely to be much stronger. However Gore insisted that there is still time to act despite challenges that may lie ahead in adapting to what we can't avoid. We still have the ability to slow it down. We have the ability to prevent even worse sea level rise and and even worse catastrophes that are also caused by the climate crisis Gore said.	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON The Supreme Court refused the Trump administration's request Friday to block21 young people from putting a warming planet on trial in Eugene Ore. Theaction keeps alive at least for nowanunusual lawsuit begun in 2015 to force a change in federal environmental policyby declaring a climate systemcapable of sustaining human life a civil right.The lawsuit was broughton behalf of children now ages 11 22as well as future generations. But while refusing to halt the trial the justices indicated that the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit could do so if the Justice Department asks. That court has refused to intervene in the past. Associate Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch dissented presumably because they were prepared to stop the trial now. The justices had expressedmisgivings about the lawsuitin July when they refused to stop the legal process but said the breadthof theclaims was striking. Whether those claims should be handled in court presents substantial grounds for difference of opinion the court said then. Lawyers for Our Children's Trust have argued that government policies have deprived the children of their constitutional rights to life liberty and propertyto dignity to personal security to a stable climate system capable of sustaining human lives and liberties. They want the government toprepare an accounting of the nations greenhouse gas emissions and prepare and implement an enforceable national remedial plan for reducing carbon emissions. Federal district court Judge Ann Aiken who has presided over pretrial briefing for more than two years had scheduled the trial to begin Mondayand last up to 12 weeks. Courts have an obligation not to overstep the bounds of their jurisdiction but they have an equally important duty to fulfill their role as a check on any unconstitutional actions of the other branches of government she said last monthin denying the government's effort to stall or dismiss the trial. The Justice Departmentobjected to the time and expense claiming that the issue was one for Congress not the courts to resolve. Its objections were first raised during the Obama administration. This suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions Solicitor General Noel Francisco argued in court papers. The children on whose behalf the lawsuit was filed he said can make no credible claim of imminent irreparable harm. Their alleged injuries stem from the cumulative effects of CO2emissions from every source in the world over decades. Although the case Juliana v. United States has yet to reach the trial stage it has been taught in more than two dozen law schools as well as primary and secondary schools lawyers for the children said inspiring students of all ages to see themselves in the parchment of the U.S. Constitution. More Supreme Court Conservative groups see opportunities to cut regulation shore up property rights More Brett Kavanaugh vote Will 'asterisk justice' bring political stain to Supreme Court? More Who is the real Brett Kavanaugh? Legal whiz kid or partisan hack? Mentor to women or beer loving frat boy?	False	False	False	False	False
Participants included the CEOs of Italian oil giant ENI British Petroleum ExxonMobil and Norways Statoil as well as scientists and managers of major investment funds. Their remarks on the first day of the closed door conference were not released by the Vatican. While Francis lauded the oil executives for embedding an assessment of climate change risks into their planning strategies he also put them on notice for their continued search for fossil fuel reserves 2 years after the Paris climate accord clearly urged keeping most fossil fuels underground. Civilization requires energy but energy must not destroy civilization he implored. Energy experts and those who advocate fighting climate change expressed doubts before the conference that it would amount to anything other than a PR opportunity for the companies to burnish their image without making meaningful changes. In his remarks the pope said he hoped the meeting gave participants the chance to re examine old assumptions and gain new perspectives. Francis said that modern society with its massive movement of information persons and things requires an immense supply of energy. And still he said as many as one billion people still lack electricity. The pope said meeting the energy needs of everyone on the planet must be done in ways that avoid creating environmental imbalances resulting in deterioration and pollution that is gravely harmful to our human family both now and in the future. Frances also recalled his own appeal in the Laudato Si encyclical for an energy policy aimed at averting disastrous climate changes that could compromise the well being and future of the human family and our common home. That includes transitioning to efficient clean energy sources. This is a challenge of epochal proportions he said Saturday. At the same time it is an immense opportunity to encourage efforts to ensure fuller access to energy by less developed countries as well as diversifying energy sources and promoting the sustainable development of renewable forms of energy. The pope called for a long term global strategy to provide energy security along with precise commitments to tackle the challenge of climate change. He said it was disturbing and a cause for real concern that the levels of carbon dioxide emissions and the concentrations of greenhouse gases remain high despite commitments taken in the 2015 Paris accord to fight global warming. He urged participants to use their demonstrated aptitude for innovation to address two of the great needs in todays world the care of the poor and the environment. He noted that the poor pay the highest price for climate change often being forced to migrate due to water insecurity severe weather and an accompanying collapse in agriculture. The transition to accessible and clean energy is a duty that we owe toward millions of our brothers and sisters around the world poor countries and generations yet to come the pope said.	False	False	False	False	False
Reuters Climate change will cost the U.S. economy hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century damaging everything from human health to infrastructure and agricultural production according to a government report issued on Friday. The Congressionally mandated report written with the help of more than a dozen U.S. government agencies and departments outlined the projected impacts of global warming in every corner of American society in a dire warning at odds with the Trump administrations pro fossil fuels agenda. With continued growth in emissions at historic rates annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century more than the current gross domestic product GDP of many U.S. states according to the report. It said global warming would disproportionately hurt the poor broadly undermine human health damage infrastructure limit the availability of water alter coastlines and boost costs in industries from farming to energy production. While it said that many of the impacts of climate change including more frequent and more powerful storms droughts and flooding are already underway the projections of further damage could change if greenhouse gas emissions are sharply curbed Future risks from climate change depend primarily on decisions made today it said. The report the Fourth National Climate Assessment Volume II supplements a study issued last year that concluded humans are the main driver of global warming and which warned of potentially catastrophic effects to the planet. The studies clash with policy under President Donald Trump who has been rolling back Obama era environmental and climate protections to maximize production of domestic fossil fuels including crude oil already the highest in the world above Saudi Arabia and Russia. Trump last year announced his intention to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris Deal agreed by nearly 200 nations to combat climate change arguing the accord would hurt the U.S. economy and provide little tangible environmental benefit. Trump and several members of his cabinet have also repeatedly cast doubt on the science of climate change arguing the causes and impacts are not yet settled. White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Environmental groups said the report reinforced their calls for the United States to take action on climate change. This report makes it clear that climate change is not some problem in the distant future. Its happening right now in every part of the country said Brenda Ekwurzel the director of climate science at the Union of Concerned Scientists and one of the reports authors. Previous research including from U.S. government scientists has also concluded that climate change could have severe economic consequences including damage to infrastructure water supplies and agriculture. Severe weather and other impacts also increase the risk of disease transmission decrease air quality and can increase mental health problems among other effects. Thirteen government departments and agencies from the Agriculture Department to NASA were part of the committee that compiled the new report. The entire report can be viewed at 	False	False	False	False	False
Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs newly released Green New Deal resolution has gotten a lot of attention for its 100 percent renewable energy goal but the bill also vaguely references another source of emissions. The resolution calls for aWorld War II style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations. If thats the case that means any subsequent Green New Deal legislation would have to deal with a major source of methane emissions cow flatulence. Methane makes up 10 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for global warming. Enteric fermentation the digestive process in cows and other ruminant animals is the largest source of U.S. methane emissions according to Environmental Protection Agency EPA data. EPA says cattle account for the majority of methane emissions in the United States for this source category referring to emissions from enteric fermentation. RELATED Alexandria Ocasio Cortez Green New Deal Is About Social Justice Being a non binding resolution the Green New Deal doesnt offer any specifics on how livestock emissions would be phased down or eliminated. The question then becomes How do you eliminate emissions from cows sheep and other animals? Certainly environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of peoples diets in the name of the climate but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health. Some scientists have looked into reducing flatulence from ruminant animals. The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others. The Obama administration released a plan to clamp down on methane emissions in 2014 which included programs to cut emissions from dairy operations. Republican lawmakers worried the Obama era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers. Methane is a more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide but makes up a much smaller slice of Americas emissions profile. Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	False	False	False	False
Greenpeace founder turned climate change skeptic Patrick Moore has reignited his feud with Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio Cortez calling her a pompous little twit and garden variety hypocrite in a barrage of tweets. Moore helped found the veteran eco organization in the 1970s before parting ways with his fellow activists over their left wing politics and becoming an advocate for nuclear power and lobbyist for the forestry industry. Lately he has been tussling with New York Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio Cortez over the Green New Deal an ambitious piece of environmental legislation that seeks to dramatically overhaul Americas energy sector and economy in a bid to slash carbon output. Moore began picking the Green New Deal apart in February ridiculing its promise to remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. Technically he stated this would mean removing all H2O vapour and all CO2 which would mean the eradication of all life on Earth. The legislation has been ridiculed from all sides for its proposed abolition of air travel and fossil fuel powered vehicles as well as its estimated cost of over 50 trillion over twice the worth of the entire US economy. Ocasio Cortez has stuck to her guns however. In a tweet the Bronx Democrat told skeptics If you dont like the Green New Deal then come up with your own ambitious on scale proposal...until then were in charge. Moore hit back calling AOC a pompous little twit and claiming that if fossil fuels were banned every tree in the world would be cut down for fuel for cooking and heating. You would bring about mass death. More recently a New York Post hit piece lambasted Ocasio Cortez for using cars to get around while campaigning in New York instead of the subway system. I also fly and use AC Ocasio Cortez responded. Living in the world as it is isnt an argument against working towards a better future. The world as it is has the option of taking the subway rather than a taxi Moore continued. You're just a garden variety hypocrite like the others. And you have ZERO expertise at any of the things you pretend to know he tweeted on Sunday before calling AOC an immature bully. Ocasio Cortez more mainstream Democrat colleagues have paid lip service to the Green New Deal but have been cautious about declaring support for the plan. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi brushed it aside in an interview with Rolling Stone on Thursday saying it goes beyond what our charge is. In addition to slashing carbon emissions the deal calls for widespread wealth redistribution to counteract systemic injustices and includes provisions for universal healthcare and taxpayer funded college tuition. An early overview of the plan since removed from Ocasio Cortez website promised economic security for all who are unable or unwilling to work swore to sideline the private sector in all environmental decision making and even vowed to eliminate farting cows. Republicans argue that the deal is tantamount to full blown socialism. Its more outlandish provisions have turned it into a punching bag for the GOP who have sought to paint the Democratic party as the party of socialist totalitarianism ahead of next years election. After referring to AOC as a raving lunatic President Donald Trump said on Saturday that the deal is the new Democrat platform and I dont want to talk them out of it...I want them to embrace this plan. I just want to be the Republican who runs against them. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON Environmental advocates say now isthe time for decisive action on climate change. Democrats won the House in November riding a platformthat included a call to address the crisis. Global warming was blamed for intensifying natural disasters that killed dozens and cost billions of dollars across the country in 2018. Arecent avalanche of evidence that the climate is already changing radically has hardened the case for immediateaction. Climate change is here and now. And palpably getting worse. That is rapidly changing how Americans think about it David Doniger with the Natural Resources Defense Council wrote in a recent blog. The shift from 'future problem'to 'now crisis'is being fueled by blockbuster scientific reports and blockbuster real world catastrophes. And yetfew including Doniger expect Washingtonto do muchany time soon in the dramatic way scientistsare urging. President Donald Trump who in 2017 yanked the U.S. out of the Paris Accord on climate changecontinues to doubt the science and says radical action would only hurt the economy. At an international climate conference in Poland in December his emissariesdoubled down on the expansionof fossil fuels notably coal. And while incoming House Democratic leaders vow to make climate change a prioritywhen they take control Thursday their most ambitious proposals are expected to die in the GOP controlled Senate where Republicans remain resistant tofar reaching steps aimedat weaningthe nation off carbon. So for Democrats and their environmental allies the next two years in Washington are likely to be more about making a case to voters than actually scoring significant victories on climate change said Bob Shrum a longtime Democratic strategist who teaches political scienceat the University of Southern California. I don't think Trump's going to give an inch on this he said. I think we'll be at a stalemate for the next two years. But I think Democrats can prepare the ground can win the argument and can go into 2020 on these issues ina pretty strong position. Studies suggest there isn'tmuch time for politicking on the issue.Some of the effects are already taking place according to a landmark climate assessmentthe administration released in November. Climate change is contributing to extreme weather conditions the spread of new diseases by insects and pestsand changes to the availability of food and water the researchers say. But the dire warning has done little to prod Capitol Hill Republicans many of whom stillquestion the science behind climate change. Reluctant to cross Trump they barely discuss the issue these dayscompared to three years ago according to an analysis of press releases floor statements tweetsand Facebook posts by software firm Quorom. When Republicansdo talk about it therefrain is that innovation and incentive alone can solve the issue. One of the most notable achievements they toutwas passage of a tax credit to encourage the capture and storage of carbon emissions into the ground before they become airborne and contribute to global warming. More El Nios to strengthen because of global warming will cause 'more extreme weather' study says More Emissions of carbon dioxide into Earth's atmosphere reach record high But they roundly oppose dramatic steps such as a carbon taxto cut the nation off fossil fuels because it would increase the cost of energy. Wyoming GOP Sen. John Barrasso chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committeeand a sponsor of the carbon capture legislation opposes such punishing regulations. Making energy as clean as we can as fast as we can without raising costs to consumers will be accomplished through investment invention and innovation Barrasso wrote in a column for The New York Times. With carbon capture clean energy development and other advances the reliance on fossil fuels must stopas well if the planet has any hope of meeting the net zero carbon emissions goal by 2050 that scientists cite as a minimum to stave off the worst effects of a warming globe. That's a one two punch we need to solve the climate crisis said Conrad Schneider advocacy Director for the Clean Air Task Force a nonprofit organization pushing for carbon emission reduction. Neither alone is going to get it done. One of the few congressional Republicans willing to support a carbon tax is Florida Rep. Francis Rooney. Representing one of the country's reddest districts the former businessman from Oklahoma is a pro Trump conservative on most issues. But on climate change he is is an unflinching opponent largely because rising sea levels threaten his home state. I don't think we need to burn coal Rooney said. A carbon tax is the most market oriented nonbureaucratic efficient way I can see to kill off coal. And Rooney said the intransigence most of his fellow Republicans including President Trumpdisplay on the issue is harmful to the GOP brand and could come back to haunt them in 2020. We need to be reaching out to broaden our base and if you look at this last election our base is narrowing unfortunately he said. I talk to our kids and young people all the time and they are more environmentally sensitive they're more pro alternative energy they get the natural gas thing instead of coal. Tom Steyer the liberal California billionaire who is mulling a presidential run in 2020 believes climate change and Republicans' refusal to follow experts' advice despite the dire warnings will help Democratssweep into office two years from now. When we talk about what's at stake here we're talking about unimaginable suffering by the American people unless we solve the problem over the next 12 years he said recently. And I think that we're very far from doing that. And it is unclear to me that we can summon that will without having substantial political victories across the board.	False	False	False	False	False
In its report ETC insists that investments of up to 500 billion per annum would not pose a major macroeconomic challenge to nations accepting the call to fund the project. The group is made up of energy company executives activists investment bankers Al Gore and others who would financially benefit from the immense influx of funds the Daily Caller reports. According to the ETC website the groups goal is to accelerate change towards low carbon energy systems that enable robust economic development and limit the rise in global temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius. The chief avenue the group advocates to cut global warming is to force governments around the world to place an ever growing tax on carbon emissions as a means to force change in energy policy. The punishing taxes they say would cause the energy industry to seriously explore alternate energy sources and cut back use of fossil fuels. It recommends that the world cut emissions to a net zero by the year 2050 to hold back global heating. The group also calls for direct investment in green energy. ETC claims that the world must fundinvestment in renewables and other low carbon technologies some 6 trillion higher 300 billion per year while the largest required increases of almost 9 trillion 450 billion per year will be in more efficient energy saving equipment and buildings. ETC has focused its activism on the Paris climate agreement which President Obama signed onto without Senate approval. The plan was to take effect in 2016 but since coming to office President Trump has put a hold on much of the countrys compliance with the agreement. Trump has also begun considering whether or not to completely pull out of the agreement. Trumps Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt has urged the president to exit the agreement and at least one climate scientist Dr. Duane Thresher has warned Trump not to cave in to his daughters climate change madness. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter or email the author at igcolonel	False	False	False	False	False
This story was originally published by High Country Newsand is shared here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration. TheGreen New Dealand its proponents aim to tackle the intertwined issues of social and environmental justice in our age of anthropogenic climate change. To accomplish this they believe they must deploy the federal government since it is the only institution large enough to coordinate and invest in the necessary policies. But the idea of expanding the role of government has attracted critics whorail against socialism. To historians this sounds familiar. This is not the first time socialism new deals and the environment have intersected. During the catastrophe of the Great Depression of the 1930s the federal government similarly attempted to ameliorate social and environmental harms by investing in people and places through the New Deal. Then as nowcritics dismissed it as socialism. The socialist sobriquet stokes ideological fires but douses historical understanding. One prominent exampleBob Marshalls argument for nationalizing forests during the 1930sreveals how socialist solutions emerge from specific contexts and problems not ideological bunkers. In Marshalls case the dire state of private timberlands in the early 20th century prompted his call for reform. When massive problems develop cross jurisdictional lines and are associated with market failures big government responses can seem like the only possible solution. By the early 20th centuryhundreds of years of unregulated cutting had ravaged the nations forests and Americans faced a crisis that demanded intervention. Rocks and mountains may be ageless but men and society are emphatically of the present and they cannot wait for the slow process of nature to retrieve the catastrophe caused by their unthinking destructiveness wrote Marshall a forester for federal agencies throughout his career a co founder of The Wilderness Society and the person for whom Montanas Bob Marshall Wilderness Area is named. A massive evaluation of American forestry conducted by the Forest Service in 1932 both shaped and reflected Marshalls views. Appearing the next yearA National Plan for American Forestry known as the Copeland Report showed that private forests were failing. The majority of the nations timber came from privately held forests just as it does today. They burned more often were not harvested to provide a continual crop of timber failed to protect watersheds and offered few recreational opportunities compared to public forests. They caused social problems too with lumber workers doing dangerous transient jobs that resulted in mangled bodies and left hollowed out towns behind. As Marshall saw it The private owner is thus responsible for almost every serious forest problem. So Marshall argued that American timberlands should be publicly owned. In 1933 four years into the Depression and during the first year of Franklin D. Roosevelts presidency Marshall publishedThe Peoples Forests his own radical extension of the Copeland Report which advocated for public ownership of practically all commercial forests in America. He was writing amid an economic catastrophe mirrored in the nations wild and rural landscapes where bankrupted farmers out of work loggers and drought driven refugees were common not unlike today. ThroughoutThe Peoples Forests Marshall showed how private ownership even when tempered by public regulation fell short only full public ownership could keep forests and communities healthy. He united a biological and social vision for forestry one where human happiness and decent livelihoods might sprout from robust forests. In articulating that vision he made his socialist case plain The fundamental advantage of public ownership of forests over private ownership is that in the former social welfare is substituted for private gain as the major objective of management. Much the way todays Green New Deal seeks to redress both economic and environmental impoverishment Marshall sought to replace private profit with a broader public spiritedness that aimed for long term stability ending cut and run practices and ultimately strengthening communities. Marshalls call for reforms reflected an accelerating trend of expanding public lands in the 1930s when the federal government acquired millions of acres for national parks national forests andwildlife refuges. Newly passed laws like theMigratory Bird Hunting Stamp Act 1934and theBankhead Jones Farm Tenant Act 1937helped the government fund refuges acquire property for conservation and bail out private owners who lived on wrecked lands. Starting around the same time and lasting until the 1950s Forest Service administrators advocated for public regulation of logging on private land principally citing concerns about declining timber production and the threat of fire on poorly managed parcels. Though ultimately unsuccessful those efforts illustrated a push to establish stability amid unsettling crisis a goal Marshall shared. When capitalism stumbles badly producing degraded lands and gaping inequalities socialistic solutions rise in popularity because their incentives are not tied to profits. Marshalls closing line argues for that perspective The time has come when we must discard the unsocial view that our woods are the lumbermens and substitute the broader ideal that every acre of woodland in the country is rightly a part of the peoples forests. Shouting socialist as an epithet isa tired strategy a failure to reckon with specific contexts and problems whether its damaged timberlands in the 1930s or rising sea levels today.The Peoples Forestsand the Green New Deal highlight the ways social and environmental harms are woven together a reminder that real solutions require a mutual untangling and that despite American history and politics suspicion of true socialism government necessarily holds many of the threads.	False	False	False	False	False
Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt is expected to sign a proposed rule on Tuesday that would roll back a key piece of President Obamas climate legacy. But whats largely been lost in the conversation is how much the attempt to repeal the regulation on carbon dioxide emissions will impact peoples health. Pruitt wants to repeal Obamas Clean Power Plan the signature Environmental Protection Agency policy that aims to cut emissions from existing US power plants a big driver of climate change 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. While the big focus of the plan was reducing carbon emissions it also aimed to keep hundreds of thousands of tons of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide pollution out of the atmosphere. These greenhouse gases are not only harmful to the environment but also increase the risk of everything from asthma to heart disease. The Clean Power Plan in other words though never implemented was a big win for health. According to the EPA cutting exposure to particle pollution in the order the CPP does would have averted up to 3600 premature deaths 90000 asthma attacks in children and 1700 heart attacks each year. Which means that the White Houses move to repeal the Clean Power Plan is a one two punch to human health and the environment said Georges Benjamin executive director of the American Public Health Association. Greenhouse gases are an enormous risk to human health. So this means well continue to be exposed to these gases which exacerbate asthma heart disease strokes. According to the Global Burden of Disease project more than 5 million people die worldwide each year because of air pollution and emissions from coal fired plants are a major risk factor here. Its one reason why health experts have been pushing policymakers to rapidly phase out of coal. For miners the immediate health risks include black lung disease and scarring of the lung tissue. But the pollutants emitted when coal is processed including sulfur dioxide particulate matter nitrogen oxides and mercury have much more far reaching effects on many more people. In one large study involving 450000 Americans followed between 1982 and 2004 researchers found that increased exposure to the particles in fossil fuel emissions increased the risk of death from heart disease and particles from coal burning were five times more damaging than other similar particles. Reducing emissions from coal fired power plants also makes it easier to breathe. Over the past 30 years the percentage of Americans with asthma has more than doubled and climate change has been a significant driver of that trend. Air pollution triggers asthma attacks contributing to lung abnormalities particularly in the developing pulmonary systems of children. For the White House bolstering the coal industry seems to trump these other matters. The war on coal is over Pruitt said Monday in Kentucky when he announced the move. For now the environmental community and some state governments are expected to oppose the rule in federal courts. The public health community should be there too. Health isnt a big part of the conversation about Trump administration assault on climate change mitigation policies but it needs to be. Its not just the future of the planet thats at stake here.	False	False	False	False	False
BNP Paribas on Wednesday became the first big bank to pledge to stop financing natural gas fracking projects as part of a new policy cheered by environmentalists as having the greatest impact of any financial giant yet. Under the new policy Frances largest bank will refuse to lend to companies who generate more than half their revenue from fracked oil gas or liquefied natural gas export terminals. The rules also apply to tar sands considered one of the dirtiest sources of oil. Multinational banks including BNP Paribas began putting strict limits on funding for coal projects in 2015. At that point coal was becoming an unprofitable investment and banks faced mounting pressure from environmentalists to stop supporting the dirtiest fuels in the lead up the Paris climate agreement. Last month JPMorgan Chase became the target of a new campaign urging it to end financing for companies that drill tar sands a particularly dirty source of oil that forms the backbone of Canadas industry. Until now no financial giant has clamped down on natural gas which produces far less carbon dioxide than oil or coal. The fuel now provides most of the United States electricity and is credited with reducing emissions by weaning the country off coal. That has allowed advocates to tout the gas as a critical tool in the transition from heavily polluting fuels to renewable energy. But fracking an extraction technique that involves shooting a highly pressurized chemical and sand laced water into shale rock to extract oil and gas has become a lightning rod for environmentalists. It produces toxic wastewater and leaks emissions of methane a far more most potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide. And the process of liquefying natural gas from vapor requires so much energy it ends up being as dirty as coal. The scientific literature on the climate impact of gas especially fracked gas is emerging Jason Disterhoft a senior campaigner at Rainforest Action Network told HuffPost by phone. Now that the prices of solar and wind energy were plummeting theres less need to use natural gas as a stepping stone between dirtier fossil fuels and renewables he added. BNP Paribas offered few details on its new policy including when it would go into effect though it said it should have an update by the end of the year. Europes second largest bank also said that companies could continue to receive backing if they lower the amount of revenue earned from fracking or tar sands to less than half their business. The exact ratio has not yet been decided a spokeswoman said. Even though were going to have this policy in place doesnt mean at the same time well right away cut all the clients that dont fall under it Mylene Benmoussa a BNP Paribas spokeswoman told HuffPost by phone on Wednesday. Its going to be a gradual and shared transition. The bank had not not yet calculated how many clients would be affected by the new policy and could not immediately respond to questions about how much money is invested in the targeted sectors. France banned fracking in 2011. The country generates 11 percent of its electricity from gas according to data from RTE the French transmission operator. And the government in Paris announced plans last month to prohibit oil and gas production by 2040. For a bank in the regulatory environment BNP Paribas is facing an aggressive climate policy makes business sense. Yet the announcement garnered praise from three environmental groups that teamed up to pressure BNP Paribas to curtail support for fossil fuels that pose a particular threat of exacerbating climate change. The trio includes the San Francisco based Rainforest Action Network the French chapter of Friends of Earth and Save the Rio Grande Valley from Liquefied Natural Gas a local Texas group protesting the construction of a liquefied natural gas terminal in the states southern region. Still the move represents a public relations victory for a bank plagued by scandals in recent years. In 2015 the company was ordered to pay 8.9 billion to the U.S. for violating sanctions against Sudan Cuba and Iran. In June three human rights groups accused BNP Paribas of complicity in the 1994 Rwandan genocide that killed more than 800000 people. In July the Federal Reserve fined the firm 246 million for its unsafe and unsound practices in foreign currency trading division failing to crack down on employees who violated rules on sharing information with competitors. Were a long standing partner to the energy sector and were determined to support the transition to a more sustainable world BNP Paribas CEO Jean Laurent Bonnaf said in a statement.As an international bank our role is to help drive the energy transition and contribute to the decarbonization of the economy.	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON Andrew Wheeler is no longer the acting director of the EPA following the Senate's vote Thursday to make him the official head of the environmental regulatory agency. The Senate narrowly confirmed Wheeler 52 47 largely along party lines with Republicans in support and Democrats againsthim. While leading President Donald Trump's deregulatory agenda Wheeler also has emphasized the agency's work to clean up Superfund sites and for the first time begin regulating a set ofharmful chemicalsfound in drinking water systems that serve millions of Americans. Mr. Wheeler has proven his ability to advance pragmatic solutions to pressing environmental challenges Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell R Ky. said on the Senate floor before the vote. Maine Sen. Susan Collins was the lone Republican to oppose Wheeler's confirmation. While calling Wheeler certainly qualified for this position Collins said some of the policies he has proposed as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation. A former EPA bureaucrat who also served as an influential Capitol Hill stafferand an energy lobbyistWheeler hadbeen acting administrator of the agency since July when he replaced Scott Pruitt who left under an ethical cloud. When Trump nominated Wheeler for the official post in November the president praised him for performing a fantastic job. Though not as controversial or ethically compromised as PruittWheeler is opposed by a number of environmental groups who sharply criticize the president's aggressive efforts to undo Obama era rules they say are designed to protect the environment and address climate change. It's a sad day for public health and the EPA but missionaccomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries Ken Cook president of the Environmental Working Group said in a statement following the vote. They have longed for one of their own to call the shots at the agency and now they finally have their man in Andrew Wheeler. At his confirmation hearing in January Senate Democrats grilled Wheeler about his agency's proposals toroll back mercury emissions standards weaken clean water regulations and scrap Obama era climate change rules. Related President Trump made the right pick for EPA Sen. Barrasso Shortly after taking over in July Wheeler's EPA moved aheadwith a planto do away with the Obama era Clean Power Planand replace it with aproposed rule to set state guidelines for power plant emissions of greenhouse gases that contribute to a warming planet. And his agency finalizedrevisions to a 2015 Obama era rule regulating thedisposal of coal ashthat gives states and utilities what he called much needed flexibility to manage their waste. He alsorecommended freezing miles per gallon standards for cars and light trucks after the 2020 model yearand preventing California and other states from setting tougher standards saying it will improve safety andkeep prices lower for consumers. We haven't slowed downand we haven't missed a step Wheeler told senators in August. As you can see we're continuing the president's agenda post haste.	False	False	False	False	False
Donors to conservative candidates should also finance media projects that promote their values. Politics is downstream from culture is an aphorism the late conservative iconoclast Andrew Breitbart was famous for coining He believed that in the end the people who win elections are the ones telling the best stories and controlling the narrative on any issue. In 2016 Donald Trump won in part because Make America Great Again encapsulated a better story than Hillary Clintons tepid Stronger Together. But popular culture whether it be books TV film music or video games remain dominated by the Left. Sandwiched between much of our entertainment are messages that perpetuate liberal themes The military is bloodthirsty radical Muslims must be handled with kid gloves trial lawyers and climate change activists are crusading heroes and above all corporations are evil. When they are not being greedy or trying to dominate the world they are responsible for polluting the planet. Narratives like the ones above dont get turned into stories by accident. The Tides Foundation which featured Barack Obama on its board before he became president has spent nearly a billion dollars in the past 20 years serving as a cutout for liberal donors who dont want to be identified with a particular cause. One of the most touted projects it has steered donors to is Participant Media an activist entertainment company that produces movies with a message. Among the films Participant has championed are George Clooneys CIA conspiracy thrillers Al Gores climate change documentaries and a docudrama celebrating Ruth Bader Ginsburgs legal career. Another genre beloved by Participant filmmakers is the corporate polluter drama. Dark Waters a film in which a crusading trial lawyer is pitted against the DuPont chemical company is being released nationwide this month. Picking up where Erin Brockovich left off the film asserts that DuPont ignored the dangers posed by a group of chemicals PFAS that were used in nonstick cookware and firefighting. Trial lawyers sued DuPont in 2001 alleging that 80000 people in Ohio and West Virginia had been exposed to PFAS in their drinking water. The case dragged on for years until DuPont and Chemours Company which spun off from DuPont settled some 3500 injury lawsuits for a total of 671 million. No one doubts that there was real liability in the case but Dark Waters is a conspiracy horror movie that ignores facts to shake up its audience. A clear giveaway is that the movie begins with the disclaimer inspired by true events rather than the more commonly used based on a true story. The film ignores recent studies that have found no causal link between PFAS chemicals and infections or dental cavities. Also ignored that the Centers for Disease Control report that the blood levels of PFAS compounds in people have dropped dramatically since the 20 year old events depicted in the story. But the film has served as a springboard for calls to environmental activism. The House Oversight Committee conducted a hearing on PFAS issues last month. Dark Waters leading star Mark Ruffalo was the main witness. Ruffalo best known to filmgoers for playing the Incredible Hulk is an outspoken political extremist. This month he sent out a tweet calling for an economic revolution because in his view capitalism is failing us killing us and robbing from our childrens future. Hes even criticized liberal TV host Ellen DeGeneres for socializing with George W. Bush because the former president hasnt been brought to justice for the crimes of the Iraq War. The real agenda behind Dark Waters is to try to vilify chemical companies and characterize them as the next Big Tobacco. They can then be made a juicy target for both trial lawyers and government regulators. In a CNN interview last month Ruffalo directly linked the issues around PFAS to alleged attempts by government to hide science surrounding fossil fuels not to mention Exxon and climate change. But just last week a New York judge found Exxon not guilty of misleading shareholders on climate change blowing up Ruffalos straw man. The Exxon case shows that the agenda of the left wing groups behind Dark Waters is a moving target one always guided by the trial lawyers laser like focus on the deepest pocketbook. The Left has long understood the role that popular culture can play in shaping politics. Conservatives have largely ignored the radicalization of Hollywood in this struggle. Its time that many people who give money to conservative candidates recognize the need also to finance media projects that promote their values. One example is a proposed big budget biographical film about Ronald Reagan starring Dennis Quaid. Its producers are still searching for final financing before they begin production. If conservatives wind up losing elections and thereby ceding public policy to the Left they will have only themselves to blame for ignoring the war over popular culture that has been steering younger voters to think in more radical terms.	False	False	False	False	False
But Pruitt has also been a reliable ally for President Donald Trump who made easing regulations on American industries a central campaign promise and the EPA administrator has proposed a slew of rollbacks for major environmental rules including those governing clean air and water and fighting climate change. Put together Pruitt's moves some of which have been challenged in court represent an attempt to fundamentally restructure the EPA's role in Washington and are a sharp rebuke of the environmental legacy of former President Barack Obama. Here are some of Pruitt's key changes Like others in the Trump administration Pruitt has repeatedly highlighted uncertainty about the role that humans have played in global warming a view that is at odds with the vast majority of scientific evidence. Last month the EPA circulated talking points instructing its staffers to say clear gaps exist in understanding whether human activity contributes to climate change. The EPA also removed references to climate change from several webpages according to an analysis by the Environmental Data and Governance Initiative. The weakening of automobile standards which is a win for car manufacturers and a blow to environmentalists also sets up a fight between the Trump administration and the state of California which says it plans to stick with the stricter rules. Proposing an overhaul of Obama era initiatives on coal ash In March the EPA proposed changes to the Obama era directive regulating coal ash waste giving states and utilities more power to manage their own disposal of it. The proposal according to The Washington Post includes more than a dozen changes for how coal ash which remains when coal is burned in power plants and electricity is generated is stored at coal fired power plants nationwide and would let states change how frequently they test for groundwater contamination. The decision was praised by industry officials who had called on Pruitt to revisit the rules but environmental groups said he was caving to special interests in the coal industry. The EPA announced in January that it was withdrawing the once in always in policy under the Clean Air Act that dictated how major sources of hazardous air pollutants are regulated. The decades old policy was opposed by fossil fuel companies but environmental groups argued that its withdrawal would result in more pollution. The EPA announced in January that it would suspend the Waters of the United States rule which was designed to limit pollution in roughly 60 of the country's bodies of water. Critics said the rule was overly broad in classifying waterways that are subject to federal rules while supporters see it as a necessary protection for example preventing fertilizer runoff from tainting streams and drinking water. Pruitt announced in October his decision to withdraw from the Clean Power Plan the Obama era rule intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from power plants across the country. The Clean Power Plan had a goal of decreasing the country's carbon pollution by roughly one third by 2030 compared with 2005 levels. Under Pruitt the EPA tried to suspend an Obama era rule to restrict methane emissions from new oil and gas wells. But a federal court ruled in August that the EPA must enforce the Obama administration's regulation. Pushing to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord Pruitt pushed the White House to leave the Paris climate deal stood beside the President in the Rose Garden when he announced the decision and after the President spoke offered his own remarks. The move was condemned by global leaders and was seen by many as a setback to efforts to address global warming.	False	False	False	False	False
Nineteen of the 25 Democratic presidential candidates have gone on record in favor of holding a debate devoted to climate change policy. In the past three days four more candidatesincluding Kamala Harrishave told Mother Jones that they support a climate debate raising the stakes for the Democratic National Committee which has so far resisted allowing such an event to take place. In addition to the California senator New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio former Rep. John Delaney Md. and former Rep. Joe Sestak Pa. are now calling for a climate debate joining big name candidates including Joe Biden Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren. Earlier this year the DNC announced plans to hold a dozen primary debates in 2019 and 2020 and to prohibit candidates from appearing in any debates that had not been approved by the national party. In April climate activistslaunched a grassroots campaign demanding that one of the debates be dedicated to climate they noted that presidential debate moderators had a long history of giving short shrift to the issue. Its not just because activists want to vet candidate platforms and solutions but because even getting candidates to talk more about an issue can raise the issues profile. The activists quickly won support from Washington Gov. Jay Inslee who has put global warming at the center of his campaign. But the DNCs line all along has been that it wouldnt hold any issue specific debates. The controversy reemerged after the first round of Democratic debates last week. Climate received 15 minutes of discussion over two nights but the largely superficial discussion of the issue only seemed to strengthen the activists case as key policy proposals such as the Green New Deal and 100 percent renewable energy mandates were virtually ignored. DNC officials spent the weekend reconsidering the matter. The result was a pair of resolutions that could come up for a vote at the partys August meeting. One proposal backed by DNC executive committee member Christine Pelosi and others would create a climate debate. A separate resolution which Pelosi described as less ideal would call for a forum in which candidates would appear individually to address climate policy. A third way forward she suggested might include an effort to survey party members about which issues deserve a standalone debate. It was somewhat ironic we DNC officials spent more time debating climate in our debate on Saturday than the candidates did Wednesday and Thursday Pelosi said. If a climate debate does happen much of the credit will belong to activist organizations like the US Youth Climate Strike a teen led group that has pressured candidates into endorsing the efforts. They plan to join with another youth oriented group Sunrise Movement to keep up the pressure throughout the summer. Still six candidates either havent taken a position on a climate change debate or didnt respond to requests for comment in time for publication. They are Sen. Cory Booker who called for more time to be devoted to the issue after the first debate Montana Gov. Steve Bullock former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper Wayne Messam the mayor of Miramar Florida California Rep. Eric Swalwell and author Marianne Williamson. Heres what each of the candidates have said Biden addressed a Greenpeace activist at a campaign rally in Ottumwa Iowa on June 11 Thats what we should be doing he said. Im all in man. Take a look at what Im talking aboutand by the way the first climate change plan in the history of the Congress? The campaign confirmed his position to Mother Jones in July. He tweeted in response to a Youth Climate Strike activist The candidate tweeted a video of her reading a letter from an activist asking her to sign a petition for a climate change debate. Im up for that she said. She also backed Inslees pushback against the DNC Harris communications director told Mother Jones Shes said she is happy to debate. Harris previously hadnt said publicly that she supports a climate change debate. Buttigiegs campaign did not clarify the candidates position on a debate but a staffer says he plans to continue to address the issue of climate change at every debate and every event that he attends. ORourkes campaign did not respond to a request for comment in time for publication to confirm Youth Climate Strikes tweet Booker supports more climate change discussion but the campaign toldMother Jones that the decision is in the hands of the DNC. John supports having a climate debate his communications director wrote in a July 1 email. Climate has been a big part of our campaign and we mentioned our carbon fee and dividend plan during the debate last week. A DNC debate focused on climate change would show the world that America intends to lead again on this issue and would be a smart place to discuss the key tenets of the Green New Dealinfrastructure green jobs and clean air and waterand how to put a price on carbon she told the Daily Beast. Bennet toldPolitico he thought a climate debate would be great. Inslee was the first candidate to endorse a climate change debate on April 17 launching his own petition aimed at the DNC. I cannot rule out any other debate that would highlight both the necessity of defeating the climate crisis and calling for the candidates to step up to the plate Inslee said in an interview with Mother Jones. Sixty second sound bites which is all youll be able to get in a party debate is grossly inadequate to the task. The candidate wrote on Wednesday in an email to Mother Jones How could you not? It is the most destructive threat to America and mankind.	False	False	False	False	False
President Donald Trump's Earth Day message greatly differed in tone from his predecessor by not mentioning climate change. The president's statement focused on the beauty of nature and the importance of preserving it for future generations. He said in the second paragraph 'economic growth enhances environmental protection.' This point was reiterated later in a somewhat defensive tweet. Trump said 'I am committed to keeping our air and water clean but always remember that economic growth enhances environmental protection. Jobs matter!' By comparison last year President Obama's message in 2016 took on an urgent tone and said 'Human activity is disrupting the climate and the challenge of combating climate change is one that will define the contours of our time.' However Obama did not mention climate change in 2010 or 2012 statements important midterm and general election years according to AOL. President Bush also pointed to climate change in his 2009 Earth Day statement 'We are taking positive steps to confront the important challenge of climate change. Our work is not done.' President Trump's administration executive orders and tweets indicate he is not a believer in climate change. In 2013 on a chilly day at Trump Tower he tweeted 'Another freezing day in the Spring what is going on with global warming? Good move changing the name to climate change sad!' In a flurry of other tweets he criticized President Obama for prioritizing the environment over other issues such as 'ISIS and Ebola.' On Earth Day thousands of scientists students and research advocatesmarched around the world in protest of Trump's research budget cuts. Many of the signs at the rallies referenced climate change specifically. On Friday Trump asked the Surgeon General Dr Vivek Murthy to resign from his post.Murthy previously spoke out against climate changed and called it aserious danger to public health.	False	False	False	False	False
The office issued news releases relating to investigations at a dizzying rate with less emphasis on follow through or actual results said Caroline Polisi a white collar defense lawyer who has appeared as a legal commentator on cable news shows. But Ms. Polisi added that there had been considerable substance to a number of Mr. Schneidermans investigations as well as some major successes. Mr. Schneidermans big accomplishment in going after Wall Street were the billions of dollars in penalties that he helped secure from big banks that had sold flawed mortgage backed bonds during the run up to the financial crisis. He ensured that some of that money went to help communities across the state that were overrun by abandoned houses and foreclosures often referred to as zombie homes. His legal team was one of the first in the nation to target banks for sponsoring nontransparent trading platforms called dark pools which allowed high speed trading firms to take advantage of investors. In 2016 Mr. Schneiderman and the Securities and Exchange Commission announced a 154 million settlement with Barclays and Credit Suisse to resolve allegations that the banks had permitted traders to misuse their dark pool platforms. Three years ago he opened an investigation with the Massachusetts attorney general into whether Exxon Mobil deliberately misled the public and investors about the impact of climate change. In 2015 Mr. Schneidermans office opened an investigation into the mortgage practices of Caliber Home Loans a fast growing lender but has said nothing about the inquiry since then. A spokeswoman said that the office generally avoided providing details about the number of open investigations. But Barbara Underwood who was named New Yorks acting attorney general on Tuesday said in a statement that the offices work continues without interruption. Mr. Schneiderman over the past year has positioned himself at the vanguard of legal challenges by state attorneys general to the Trump administrations efforts to roll back regulation especially environmental rules. Last month he and more than a dozen states sued the E.P.A. for failing to properly control methane pollution a greenhouse gas.	False	False	False	False	False
Senate Democrats used the Wednesday confirmation hearing of Andrew Wheeler the acting administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to push him on the agencys negligence on climate change its rollback of regulations designed to protect Americans health and his uncannily close ties to the fossil fuel industry. Do you agree with the scientific community that climate change is a global crisis? Sen. Bernie Sanders I VT asked Wheeler repeatedly. I would not call it the greatest crisis no sir Wheeler responded. I consider it to be an issue that has to be addressed globally. Substantively I think you have your thumb wrist forearm and elbow on the scale Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse D RI told Wheeler referring to Wheelers past work as a coal lobbyist. Some Republicans raised concerns about climate change as well. At a few points the hearing was interrupted by protesters and chants of shut down Wheeler not the EPA. Eight protesters were arrested. Wheeler for his part emphasized in the hearing before the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee that the EPA was revising Obama era environmental regulations like the Clean Power Plan and the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards to comply with court rulings. It was a signal that he plans to continue to methodically advance Trumps agenda but in a much less bombastic way than former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt who resigned last year in disgrace after numerous allegations of ethics violations. Some Democrats even praised Wheeler for his collegiality and for being much more accessible than Pruitt. However others said he was tilting regulations in favor of the sectors the EPA is supposed to regulate for instance weakening pollution regulations on coal fired power plants. Before his work as a coal lobbyist Wheeler was a staffer at the EPA and on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. He was also an Eagle Scout and emphasized his love of hiking and camping. I do consider myself a conservationist he said. Unlike Pruitt Wheeler did acknowledge that humans are driving changes in the climate and that it must be addressed. When Sen. Jeff Merkley D OR asked Wheeler how he rated climate change in importance on a scale of 1 to 10 Wheeler said it was 8 or 9. Yet global emissions continue to rise and scientists recently warned that were running out of time to accelerate the global effort to limit warming to a less disastrous level. Instead of joining this effort the EPA is working to relax rules on emissions. And given that Wheeler answers to President Trump who has dismissed climate change as a concern its unlikely well see any radical changes at the EPA anytime soon. The Senate is expected to confirm Wheeler soon as the new head of the agency in a vote. Several Republicans brought up climate change during the hearing noting their concerns about the rise of carbon dioxide emissions in the United States in 2018 which Wheeler had disputed. We heard that there was an emissions rise in 2018 which you attributed to a cold winter a hot summer and also to more economic activity said Sen. Shelley Moore Capito R WV. You said you expect that to go down over time. What gives you the confidence that if this economy continues to roll the way we think it will that will actually happen? Wheeler said that greater energy efficiency in the power sector along with fuel economy standards would continue to drive down emissions. Sen. John Barrasso R WY suggested that technology is the main solution to greenhouse gases and asked Wheeler about the EPAs role in fostering innovation and using tactics like capturing carbon dioxide to extract more oil or make building materials. Wheeler said that all of EPAs programs encourage innovation. One thing thats important on the regulatory side is that we dont try to tip the scale one way or the other for example on energy sources he said. That Republicans are acknowledging climate change at all is a sign that the political winds on the issue have shifted and they can no longer afford to be passive on the issue if they want policies on their terms. And innovation seems to be the key thread uniting Republican responses to climate change. As my colleague David Roberts pointed out coming up with new technologies is indeed a key aspect of fighting climate change but for Republicans it may be a way to head off more ambitious climate policies. Already momentum is building in the House for taxing carbon as well as a Green New Deal to fight climate change. During the hearing Democrats revealed some of their strategy to pressure the EPA on climate change going forward. Since they lost seats in the Senate Democrats emphasized key state level disputes like the fight between California and the EPA over fuel economy standards. Vehicles are a huge source of greenhouse gas emissions and California wants to retain its authority to set tighter emissions rules than the rest of the country. The Trump administration wants one standard for the country as well as a much more relaxed fuel economy target than the one proposed under President Obama. Lawmakers from both sides also lamented the ongoing partial government shutdown. Most of the EPAs 13000 employees are furloughed but some are still on the job to deal with responses to disasters like the fallout from Californias wildfires last year. Some employees were also recalled to help the EPA meet court ordered deadlines for producing environmental regulations. Under these circumstances its not possible for EPA to do its mission said Sen. Ben Cardin D MD. I want to underscore how tragic this shutdown is.	False	False	False	False	False
Sen. Bernie Sanders I Vt. upped the ante in his progressive agenda on Thursday when he signaled support forcriminal charges against executives at oil companies. Fossil fuel executives should be criminally prosecuted for the destruction they have knowingly caused Sanders tweeted. His comments were the latest in progressive politicians'long line of attacks on big corporations and their role in climate change. It came on the same day that he released a sweeping 16 trillion plan to address climate change. Sanders paintedhis Green New Dealas a way to end the greed of the fossil fuel industry. OCASIO CORTEZ 'THERE'S NO DEBATE' THAT FOSSIL FUEL PRODUCTION SHOULD STOP We are going to end the greed of the fossil fuel industry and move to 100 renewable energy he tweeted in an attack on natural gas. Sanders' website indicated that he would as president direct his Justice Department to pursue criminal charges against companies like Exxon. These executives have spent hundreds of millions of dollars protecting their profits at the expense of our future and they will do whatever it takes to squeeze every last penny out of the Earth his website reads. Bernie promises to go further than any other presidential candidate in history to end the fossil fuel industrys greedincluding by making the industry pay for its pollution and prosecuting it for the damage it has caused. The American Petroleum Institute a trade association for the oil and gas industry responded to Sanders in a statement to Fox News. Pitting important environmental goals against working families who rely on affordable American energy is a false choice the organization said. While some may use attacks on natural gas and oil to energize their political base our industry will remain focused on providing the energy that powers Americas economy and modern lifestyle while also continuing to lower carbon emissions beyond their current generational low. While Sanders' pledge seemed unprecedented left wing attacks on big oil are nothing new. Former New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman led a coalition of more than a dozen states in investigating ExxonMobil over allegations it misled the public about climate change. That turned into a federal lawsuit alleging the oil giant defrauded its shareholders with its messaging on climate change.Schneiderman resigned in 2018 amid allegations of physical abuse but legal battles continued to swirl around the company. Sanders' plan along with other Democratic climate change proposals wouldlikely inflict a heavy financial toll on companies like Exxon as Democrats embraced timelines that would drastically reduce carbon emissions within just decades of implementation. Congressional Democrats have for example proposed a carbon tax as a way to cut carbon emissions by 100 percent by 2050. The bill would purportedlyrebatea majority 70 percent ofrevenues from the tax to low and middle income Americans as a monthly dividend while spending the rest on infrastructure energy innovation and helping communities transition to a cleaner energy economy. The right leaning Competitive Enterprise Institute indicatedthat businesses would collectively face trillions of dollars in costs as they upgraded commercial and industrial buildings. For example the study found that the battleground state of Pennsylvania would face over 2 trillion in costs for upgrading residential commercialand industrial buildings. Florida would encounter a 1.4 trillion price tag andNew Hampshire the first primary state would face 102.8 billion in retrofitting costs. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Sanders andothers have claimed their plans would benefit the economy. The Vermont senator predicted his plan would create 20 million jobs and pay for itself over 15 years. The cost of inaction is unacceptable Sanders' website claimed. Economists estimate that if we do not take action we will lose 34.5 trillion in economic activity by the end of the century. And the benefits are enormous by taking bold and decisive action we will save 2.9 trillion over 10 years 21 trillion over 30 years and 70.4 trillion over 80 years. 	False	False	False	False	False
A Green Island moss bank with icebergs.Credit Matt Amesbury Antarctica is a cold white continent at the bottom of the world. Or so it has been for thousands of years. New evidence points to a sharp increase in biological activity in recent decades across the Antarctic Peninsula resulting in large swaths of newfound greenery. Published in the journal Current Biology a new study found major increases in Antarctic moss growth over the past 50 years which the team of researchers attributes to temperature rises in the region. another clear sign that the biology of the planet is changing as a result of warming temperatures said Professor Dan Charman of the University of Exeter who led the research project. surprised us was just how rapid the changes have been and the fact that they are very unusual when compared with growth rates in the late 19th and early 20th century. Charman said their evidence shows just how fast Antarctic land surface can change along with climactic changes. The Antarctic Peninsula is among the most rapidly warming areas in the world with temperatures having increased by almost three degrees Celsius over the last 50 years. In March a research base near the northern tip of the Antarctic peninsula set a heat record of 17.5 degrees Celsius 63.5 Fahrenheit. Currently plant life only exists on about 0.3 of Antarctica. Charman said that while as the Arctic warms a variety of plant life and soil organisms can migrate north in Antarctica there are no nearby land areas for species to colonize from. But while no new natural plant life is anticipated existing plant life such as Antarctic hairgrass and Antarctic pearlwort could occupy new ice free ground as glaciers retreat. Dr. Matt Amesbury also of the University of Exeter said there were two main findings to take from their new study scale and temperature sensitivity Before now studies have been from single sites but using a transect of sites weve been able to show that this significant response to climate change is pervasive across the whole of the Antarctic Peninsula. The second important point is our finding which suggests that moss growth has been highly sensitive to temperature change since the 1950sunder future warming scenarios this means we are likely to see a greening of the Antarctic Peninsula both in terms of further increases in growth rates and also expansion of mosses and other plant life. 	False	False	False	False	False
Lab grown meat has been successfully cultured in space for the first time. The Israeli food technology startup Aleph Farms grew the meat on the International Space Station 248 miles 399 km away from any natural resources. Bovine cells were harvested on Earth and taken to space where they were grown into small scale muscle tissue using a 3D bioprinter. The method relies on mimicking a natural process of muscle tissue regeneration occurring inside a cows body. The experiment took place on 26 September on the Russian segment of the space station and involved the assembly of small scale muscle tissue in a 3D bioprinter under controlled microgravity conditions. In future the technique could be used to provide meat for people living on the space station. The development marks a further step forward for a nascent industry that aims to provide people with real meat without the environmental impact and welfare problems of intensive livestock production. In December Aleph Farms announced it had produced a prototype strip of steak grown from cells in the lab in two weeks although it admitted the taste needed to be improved. We are proving that cultivated meat can be produced anytime anywhere in any condition said Didier Toubia co founder and chief executive of Aleph Farms. We can potentially provide a powerful solution to produce the food closer to the population needing it at the exact and right time it is needed. In space we dont have 10000 or 15000 litres of water available to produce 1kg of beef added Toubia. This joint experiment marks a significant first step toward achieving our vision to ensure food security for generations to come while preserving our natural resources. Recent scientific studies have found that huge reductions in meat eating are essential in order to cut greenhouse gas emissions and avoid dangerous climate change. One found that avoiding meat and dairy products was the single biggest way to reduce an individuals environmental impact on the planet.	False	False	False	False	False
U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross on Thursday openly dismissed concerns raised by Secretary of State Rex Tillerson about President Donald Trump's decision to exit the Paris Climate Treaty. Tillerson a former ExxonMobil CEO told senators during his January confirmation hearing that the U.S. should stay engaged in global warming mitigation instead of walking away. 'It's important that the U.S. maintains its seat at the table about how to address the threat of climate change which does require a global response' Tillerson said then. And he has fretted privately to confidants that withdrawing from the Paris deal could both undercut America's credibility on other multilateral agreements and impair relationships with foreign allies. The U.S. commerce chief told Fox News just minutes after Trump blasted the climate agreement as a wealth transfer gimmick that Tillerson is wrong. 'I have a great deal of respect for Secretary Tillerson. I happen to disagree strongly with him on this particular issue.' He added that 'I just don't see the connection frankly' between the Paris pullout and America's trustworthiness in future negotiations. 'I don't agree with that at all. There's no reason to make one agreement connect with another' Ross said using the Trans Pacific Partnership as Exhibit A. 'The sky didn't fall when we pulled out of TPP and the sky certainly won't fall now that we've pulled out of the Paris Accord' he said. 'I think the president is right.' Ross said much of the predicted backlash from other countries that drive global warming concerns would be rooted in economics not science. 'Any time that people were taking money out of your pocket and you make them put it back in they're not going to be happy. And that's what's happening here' he said. 'This wasn't about climate. It was about U.S. money going to other countries.' Ross has firmly rooted himself in the train of thought that sees climate change agreements as thinly veiled pretexts for demanding global payouts from Washington and a free ride for its trade adversaries. 'The president made clear we already are far ahead of other countries in terms of CO2 reduction' Ross said describing U.S. efforts to reduce carbon outputs. 'And how can it be an effective deal when it allows China and India two of the major polluters to keep increasing their pollution for another decade or two?' 'That doesn't sound to me like a climate accord' he said. 'It simply sounds like a transfer of wealth from the United States to other countries.' Tillerson on the other hand has aggressively pushed for greater recognition of America's obligation to lead the charge. Three weeks ago he signed an international document establishing the importance of the Paris Treaty in tackling climate change. The Fairbanks Declaration was adopted at the meeting by the members of the Arctic Council whose members like the U.S. have territory above the Arctic Circle. The declaration says that the Arctic 'is warming at more than twice the rate of the global average resulting in widespread social environmental and economic impacts in the Arctic and worldwide.' Last year just one day before Trump was elected Tillerson told a conference in Abu Dhabi that 'at ExxonMobil we share the view that the risks of climate change are serious and warrant thoughtful action. Addressing these risks requires broad based practical solutions around the world.' 'Importantly as a result of the Paris agreement both developed and developing countries are now working together to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions' he said then 'while recognizing differing national responsibilities capacities and circumstances.' Tillerson who met with the president on Wednesday in a last ditch effort to change his mind about pulling out of the Paris Accord did not attend Thursday's Rose Garden announcement that America's participation was at an end.	False	False	False	False	False
Reuters The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will unveil a proposal to speed state level permitting decisions for energy infrastructure projects soon the agencys chief told Reuters on Thursday blasting states that have blocked coal terminals and gas pipelines on environmental grounds. President Donald Trump is seeking to boost domestic fossil fuels production over the objections of Democrats and environmentalists concerned about pollution and climate change. On Wednesday he issued a pair of executive orders targeting the power of states to delay energy projects. We started working on it in advance so we hope to have something out soon EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said in an interview. He was unable to provide a precise timeline. Based on Trumps orders Wheelers EPA has been tasked with clarifying a section of the U.S. Clean Water Act that has allowed states like New York and Washington to delay projects in recent years. New York has used the section to delay pipelines that would bring natural gas to New England for example and Washington state has stopped coal export terminals that would open the Asian market for struggling coal companies in Wyoming and other landlocked western states. They are trying to make international environmental policy Wheeler said of Washington state whose governor Democrat Jay Inslee is running for president on a climate change focused platform. Theyre trying to dictate to the world how much coal is used. Wheeler said New York which amid strong public pressure denied a clean water act permit for construction of a natural gas pipeline to New England is forcing that region to use Russian produced natural gas. We are importing Russian natural gas which is not produced in an environmentally conscious manner. If the states that are blocking the pipelines were truly concerned about the environment they would look to where the natural gas would be coming from I think its very short sighted he said. Wheeler said the EPA would not prevent a state from vetoing a project but would clarify the parameters they should be able to consider and the length of time they have to do so. He also said that California is playing politics in its fight with the EPA to preserve its more stringent vehicle emission standards as the national standard. Wheeler said he believes climate change is a problem but that it had been overblown by former President Barack Obamas administration at the expense of other bigger issues like water quality. Yes climate is an issue and we are working to address it but I think water is a bigger issue he said. Wheeler dismissed the findings of a report released earlier this week by EPA scientists in the journal Nature Climate Change that detailed the scale and urgency of climate change. He said while he encouraged EPA scientists to carry out and publish research he stressed the recent paper did not reflect EPA policy. Environmental groups say the EPAs replacement of an Obama era rule limiting carbon emissions from power plants would likely lead to increased emissions by allowing older more polluting coal plants to operate longer. Asked whether the replacement the Affordable Clean Energy rule which gives states responsibility for regulating emissions is stringent enough Wheeler said it adheres to the parameters of federal law. I think what is effective regulation is one that follows the law and one that will be held up in court he said. Several Democrats challenging Trump in the 2020 election have made climate change a top tier issue embracing aggressive policy platforms like the Green New Deal calling for an end of fossil fuels use. Asked whether he was concerned that the EPA may be out of synch with polls showing an overwhelming number of young people believe climate change should be a priority issue Wheeler was dismissive. I do fear that because so many people only talked about climate change. Youre right there could very well be a new generation coming up saying thats the only environmental issue and its not he said.	False	False	False	False	False
The New York Times has taken warnings about global warming to a whole new level publishing a three part series suggesting a potential apocalypse from melting ice sheets if humans keep pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. If that ice sheet were to disintegrate it could raise the level of the sea by more than 160 feet a potential apocalypse depending on exactly how fast it happened NYT reporter Justin Gillis wrote of what some scientists predict could happen to Antarctica. Gillis points to recent research suggesting the collapse of the ice sheet will become inevitable likening the projected 160 foot sea level rise to flood stories from the Epic of Gilgamesh tothe Bibles Old Testament. In the Epic of Gilgamesh waters so overwhelm the mortals that the gods grow frightened too Gillis wrote In Indias version Lord Vishnu warns a man to take refuge in a boat carrying seeds. In the Bible God orders Noah to carry two of every living creature on his ark. I dont think the biblical deluge is just a fairy tale Terence Hughes a retired glaciologist told Gillis. I think some kind of major flood happened all over the world and it left an indelible imprint on the collective memory of mankind that got preserved in these stories. That flooding would have occurred at the end of the last ice age Gillis reported. Of course he left out the part about Antarctic ice sheet melting taking place over a couple thousands years. Now the research Gillis points to is a worst scenario based on a Parallel Ice Sheet Model as reported by scientists in a 2015 study. Models can be useful tools to test complex climate interactions but they are still projections not facts. That 2015 study found half the Antarctic ice sheet would melt or fall into the sea in the first thousand years based on model projections according to a previous NYT report. The first installment of Gilliss three part series claimed Antarctica may have entered the early stages of an unstoppable disintegration but later in the series admitted the glacier NYT reporters toured with scientists seems stable now. Even so the effects of any current global warming on Antarctica are unclear. The South Poles western ice sheet has been shedding mass for decades but part of that has to do with underground volcanic activity and the fact the ice sheet rests on water. Recent evidence suggests the Antarctic peninsula has been cooling since the late 1990s. A recent study found the region has shifted from a warming trend of 0.32 Cdecade during 19791997 to a cooling trend of 0.47 Cdecade during 19992014. Antarcticas eastern ice sheet seems more stable and may have even been gaining mass in recent decades. A 2015 study by NASA found Antarcticas ice sheet increased in mass from 1992 to 2008. The study found ice gains in Eastern Antarctica offset ice loss from the west. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	False	False	False	False	False
Atlantic hurricane season has reached its peak and as Florida deals with devastation wrought by Irma RT takes a look at where the phenomena come from and if they are really becoming more frequent? The 2017 hurricane season has already seen Texas rocked by Harvey and Florida battered by Irma and there are concerns that Jose which is currently lashing the Caribbean could hit the US east coast. While September is the most active month for hurricanes worldwide the North Atlantic hurricane season is set to continue until November 30 raising the question where are these monster storms originating? READ MORE 4 dead as Hurricane Irma rocks Florida leaving 3.5mn without power PHOTOS VIDEOS Most of the major hurricanes that have impacted the US originated in Cape Verde a nation on a volcanic archipelago off the northwest coast of Africa according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA. The interaction between the hot dry air of the Sahara Desert and the cooler more humid air from the Gulf of Guinea below creates high altitude winds known as the African Easterly Jet. Blowing from east to west across Africa the winds form clusters of thunderstorms once the waves of air have enough moisture lift and instability. The storms typically form every two to three days in a region near Cape Verde but it is not until the period between summer and autumn that conditions become favorable for the development of tropical cyclones. Tropical waves of air interact with the warm equatorial water of the Atlantic as they head west prompting columns of warm moist air to rise from the ocean and create an ideal environment to develop into a full blown hurricane. However if the Saharan Air Layer commonly known as Saharan dust is in the vicinity at the time it can weaken tropical cyclones over the Atlantic. This very dry air is most likely to have an impact in July and early August Dr Gerry Bell a hurricane climate specialist with NOAA told RT.com. This is when atmospheric conditions are only marginally conducive if at all for tropical storm formation. Hurricane Sandy and Hurricane Andrew began life as tropical waves off the coast of west Africa. Irma was first spotted as a tropical disturbance off the Cape Verde Islands in late August before becoming a hurricane over the Atlantic as it moved west. Cape Verde hurricanes are known for being particularly large and intense however not all hurricanes hitting the US originate here Harvey evolved from a tropical wave to the east of the Lesser Antilles in the Caribbean Sea. A 2015 study examining the relationship between West African tropical disturbances and Atlantic hurricanes found that the larger an area covered by the disturbances was the more likely it would develop into a hurricane only one to two weeks later. Is the US getting hit more frequently by hurricanes? Hurricane seasons have generally been longer since 1995 according to Bell which he says is consistent with a high activity era. The season lengths since 1995 are comparable to those during the last active era of the 1950s 1960s. A study published in Nature last year led by James Elsner a climate scientist and geographer at Florida State University found that while hurricanes were becoming more powerful they were also becoming less frequent. However there appears to be little consensus among scientific researchers. An early draft of the government publication the US Climate Science Special Report published by the New York Times notes an observed upward trend in North Atlantic hurricane activity since the 1970s. The NOAA Geophysical fluid dynamics laboratory meanwhile says it is too early to conclude that global warming has already had a detectable impact on Atlantic hurricane or global tropical cyclone activity. However expects it to result in more intense tropical cyclones globally with substantially higher rainfall rates by the end of the 21st century. It notes however that there is little evidence to suggest that climate change will lead to a large increase in numbers of tropical storms or overall hurricanes in the Atlantic.	False	False	False	False	False
If We Bring The Good Life To All Will We Destroy The Planet? Our blog often features stories about efforts to improve life for this planet's 7 billion inhabitants How to make sure everyone has access to clean water and power medical care to stay healthy enough income to feed their kids education for the children so they can fulfill their potential. But a new study in the Journal Nature Sustainability poses a question not often considered If we were to succeed in providing all this what would be the cost to the environment? In other words can our planet actually sustain the good life for all? As we improve the human condition building sanitation facilities and expanding farming to provide more food for example we necessarily damage the environment. We cut down trees we put fertilizers in the soil that kill off aquatic life we pump carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. So to figure out if we can meet everyone's basic needs without destroying the planet we need to know For each bit of progress on the human front how much harm is done on the environmental side? To find out Daniel O'Neill an economist at the University of Leeds in the United Kingdom and several collaborators came up with 11 indicators that a country has met the needs of its citizens. They range from boosting life expectancy above age 65 to ensuring that at least 95 percent of its adult population has graduated from high school has access to sanitation and earns more than the extreme poverty line of 1.90 a day. Then they looked at seven key ways in which humans damage the environment. For each of these scientists have calculated what degree of damage would put the planet at risk. In the case of carbon emissions for instance the threshold is the total amount that humanity can emit before we will cause the planet to warm enough to trigger catastrophic weather changes. From that we can calculate a carbon budget for the rest of the century notes O'Neill. And then dividing that by the number of people on the planet we can say 'okay this is the carbon budget per person.' Then they analyzed the data on 150 countries to determine how they scored on both the environmental and the social fronts. The hope was to find at least a few examples of countries that were simultaneously delivering the good life to their citizens while staying within their per capita boundaries for environmental damage in other words using natural resources at a rate that would be sustainable even if every person on the planet matched it. Unfortunately we really didn't find that says O'Neill. Instead says O'Neill generally the countries that do well on the social indicators do so by consuming resources at a level that could not be extended to all people on the planet. These include Germany the Netherlands and Austria. And the countries that do well on the environmental indicators in other words that are consuming resources at a sustainable level don't do well on the social indicators. Examples include Malawi Yemen and the Philippines. There are also five countries that do damage above all seven of the environmental boundaries even as they fail to achieve all 11 social indicators. This includes the United States which misses the mark when it comes to income equality and employment. China is arguably in even worse shape. It exceeds its per capita limits on five of the seven environmental thresholds yet only delivers on three of the social measures. Only one country comes even close to delivering the good life in a sustainable way Vietnam succeeds on six of social indicators including a life expectancy above 65 years and providing sufficient nutrition while staying within its limit on every environmental threshold except carbon emissions. What does this all mean for humanity? It's a worrying finding says O'Neill. But he cautions against concluding that there's simply no way for everyone to enjoy a decent life without destroying the planet. After all these findings are based on how we are doing things now he says. We certainly hope it's possible to do things better to achieve a high level of human well being at a much lower level of resource use. And he adds that this study actually points to one way to do that. Specifically O'Neill and his fellow researchers ran statistical tests to determine for each environmental measure how much damage it takes to produce a corresponding improvement on each of the social well being indicators. And what we find is that it follows a curve of diminishing returns as you use more resources you get less social bang for your buck says O'Neill. So there's a turning point after which additional resource use contributes very little to social performance. Wealthy industrialized nations such as the United States the United Kingdom and Canada have now reached that point says O'Neill. As we increase our resource use we get almost no increase in human well being from that. And this means the strategy of growing the economy basically trying to create new wealth to boost the well being of its underprivileged citizens is ineffective. A much better approach argues O'Neill would be to focus on redistributing the wealth we already have more equitably. And if high income countries were to adapt such a philosophy says O'Neill they could reduce their use of resources. And that he says would free up the ecological space for poor nations for whom using resources still does make a big impact in improving people's lives.	False	False	False	False	False
Upside down rivers of warm ocean water may be one of the causes of Antarctica's ice shelves breaking up leading to a rise in sea levels. A new study suggests that in the past increases in Antarctic sea ice in colder climates may have contributed to ice ages. Using computer simulations the research looked at past changes during the glacial periods and noted that previous increases in sea ice levels may have significantly altered the circulation of the ocean which led to a reverse greenhouse effect as carbon dioxide levels in the ocean increased and levels in the air decreased. One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement. We are pretty confident that the carbon balance between the atmosphere and ocean must have changed but we dont quite know how or why. ANTARCTICA'S ICE SHEETS CONTAIN RADIOACTIVE CHLORINE GAS 60 YEARS AFTER NUCLEAR TESTS STUDY SAYS The last major ice age ended at the end of the Pleistocene epoch about 11700 years ago as glaciers have periodically grown and then gotten smaller. Researchers believe that changes to the Earth's orbit may be partly responsible for some of the Earth's cooling but additional factors have likely played a part Jensen added. The most plausible explanation is that there was some change in how carbon was divided between the atmosphere and the ocean Jansen continued. Theres no shortage of ideas about how this happens but its not quite clear how they all fit together. Researchers also believe a mini ice age may have occurred roughly 12800 years ago. It likely stems from an asteroid impact that rocked the Northern Hemisphere and led to the Younger Dryas climate event. Jansen pointed out that the Southern Ocean around Antarctica plays a key role in ocean circulation due to the deep waters in the region leading it to have outsized consequences. AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING NEW STUDY FINDS What this suggests is that its a feedback loop said the study's lead author Alice Marzocchi. As the temperature drops less carbon is released into the atmosphere which triggers more cooling. What surprised me is how much of this increased storage can be attributed to physical changes alone with Antarctic sea ice cover being the key player Marzocchi added noting that future study of the ocean and the role it plays in the carbon cycle can help simulate future environmental change. The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events. It was only about past events.	False	False	False	False	False
Democrats vying for president revealed a fundamental split over how aggressively the US should tackle climate change in a seven hour town hall meeting on Wednesday. Bernie Sanders painted an apocalyptic future wreaked by the climate crisis and pledged to wage war on the fossil fuel industry. A high energy Elizabeth Warren urged optimism for building a better America and the former vice president Joe Biden who has a pitched a more moderate proposal said he would push other nations to recommit to stronger action. Sanders said without radical change the world will be uninhabitable. The damage to the world will be irreparable the Vermont senator said adding that he is proposing the largest most comprehensive climate plan presented by any presidential candidate in the history of the United States. With many questions focused on what candidates would ask Americans to sacrifice Elizabeth Warren pushed back on the framing. Asked if the government should tell people what kind of lightbulbs they can have the Massachusetts senator quipped Oh come on give me a break! There are a lot of ways that we try to change our energy consumption and our pollution she said. Some of it is with lightbulbs some of it is on straws some of it dang is on cheeseburgers. But most of the responsibility lies with industry not individuals she said adding this is exactly what the fossil fuel industry wants us to talk about. Biden meanwhile pitched himself as the candidate who could lead negotiations with the diplomatic might of the US. He said his first step as president would be to call an international meeting to strengthen the Paris climate agreement. We should be organizing the world demanding change we need a diplomat in chief Biden said. Look whats happening now in the Amazon whats going on? Nothing. Biden who critics say has one of the less progressive climate plans also got grilled on his plans to attend a fundraiser hosted by the founder of a natural gas company. He claimed the supporter is not a corporate executive. Where Biden would invest 1.7tn to fight climate change Warren proposed 10tn and Sanders would put forward 16.3tn setting them widely apart. The Democrats faced questions on whether their proposals would ban fracking for natural gas prohibit exports of oil gas and coal change nutritional guidelines to limit meat consumption and transition to all electric vehicles. Their answers and reactions to them foreshadowed the fight ahead with conservatives and industry regardless of who becomes the next president. Donald Trump in a thread on Twitter charged that Democrat plans will raise your energy bill and prices at the pump. The fossil fuels industry through the oil trade group the American Petroleum Institute and the American Energy Alliance said the plans would hurt poor Americans. Tonight while American families worry about making ends meet the Democrats running for president will be working hard to outbid each other on who can raise electricity and gasoline prices the highest and the fastest the alliance said in an emailed statement. The event was perhaps the longest stretch of primetime television ever dedicated to climate change held after the Democratic National Committee refused to sanction an official climate debate between candidates and amid unprecedented pressure from young activists and the Democratic voting base to tackle the climate crisis. On Wednesday a list of demands was released by a coalition of youth led groups whose lodestar is Greta Thunberg the Swedish teenager and activist who sparked a global wave of walkouts by school students over the climate crisis. Thunberg arrived in New York last week after crossing the Atlantic in a solar powered yacht for an upcoming UN climate summit. According to Yale University polling the climate emergency is now the second most important voting issue for Democrats behind healthcare. Among all voting Americans nearly seven in 10 are worried about climate change the highest ever recorded level of concern. There are strong bipartisan majorities in favour of setting pollution limits on industry businesses cars and trucks. Donald Trump who is dismantling rules aimed at lowering planet warming gases attacked the Democratic candidates for proposing unrealistic costly plans. The Democrats destructive environmental proposals will raise your energy bill and prices at the pump the president wrote on Twitter. Dont the Democrats care about fighting American poverty? Trumps campaign quickly took the opportunity to post a clip of California senator Kamala Harris saying she would ban plastic straws alongside an ad for Trump branded straws. But some young conservatives have raised concerns that Republican intransigence over the climate crisis will cost the party a generation of voters. Recent Newsy Ipsos polling found that 59 of millennial and Generation Z Republicans support the Green New Deal. There are a lot of young people who are conservative and believe in climate change They will not vote for a Republican if theyre voting on this issue said Benjamin Backer founder of the American Conservation Coalition which proposes action on the climate crisis. And I think thats a problem with the lack of involvement from the Republican Party on this issue for the past 10 years.	False	False	False	False	False
Trump speaking to reporters aboard Air Force One on Thursday after touring damage from Hurricane Irma on Florida's west coast said we've had bigger storms than this when asked about climate change. If you go back into the 1930s and the 1940s and you take a look we've had storms over the years that have been bigger than this Trump said. If you go back into the teens you'll see storms that were as big or bigger. So we did have two horrific storms epic storms but if you go back into the '30s and '40s and you go back into the teens you'll see storms that were very similar and even bigger OK? In response to this story a White House aide pointed CNN to a recent NOAA report that found that it is premature to conclude that human activities ... have already had a detectable impact on Atlantic hurricane or global tropical cyclone activity. That same report however found that human activity may have already caused changes and that global warming will likely cause tropical cyclones globally to be more intense on average and lead to an increase in the occurrence of very intense tropical cyclones. Trump campaigned on a platform that rejected much of the scientific community's findings on climate change arguing that the Obama administration used climate science too often to restrict business growth. Trump pulled out of the Paris Climate accords earlier this year and had previously had called climate change a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese. Trump's comments Thursday go against the hyperbolic language he used in the lead up and aftermath of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma. Hurricane Irma is of epic proportion perhaps bigger than we have ever seen Trump tweeted as Irma moved closer to Florida. Earlier this month he tweeted Hurricane looks like largest ever recorded in the Atlantic! And on Thursday in Florida before his comments aboard Air Force One about climate change Trump said the people of Florida experienced something the likes of which we can say really say nobody's ever seen before. They've never seen a category like this come in because it came in really at a five he said. Top Trump administration officials have repeatedly dodged questions about how climate change affected the damage done by hurricanes Harvey and Irma saying the issue should be discussed at a later date. said last week it was insensitive to address global warming at this time. said last week it was insensitive to address global warming at this time. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt said last week it was insensitive to address global warming at this time. Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget told CNN that climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media. And both FEMA administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering when asked Tuesday whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of the storms. Trump's visit to tour hurricane damage on Thursday was his second trip in as many weeks. Trump toured the Houston area earlier this month after Hurricane Harvey brought massive flooding to the city. The storm and subsequent damage could end up being the costliest natural disaster in US history.	False	False	False	False	False
PresidentDonald Trumpproclaimed himself an 'environmentalist' Monday after missing a climate changediscussion on Monday with other world leaders at the G7 summit in Biarritz France. At a press conference the president said he knows 'more about the environment than most people' in part due to his time as a builder when environmental concerns often pose last minute roadblocks to a project. At a summit where relentless fires in the Amazon provided a backdrop Trump did not respond directly when asked if he still harbored doubts about global warming vouching for his environmental credentials by pointing to numerous environmental impact statements he has been involved with. 'I went the cleanest water on earth. I want to cleanest air on earth. And that's what we're doing. I'm an environmentalist' Trump told reporters at the end of the summit. 'A lot of people don't understand that I have done more environmental impact statements probably than anybody that's I guess I can say definitely because I've done many many many of them. More than anybody that's ever been president or vice president or anything even close to president. And I think I know more about the environment than most people' he said. Trump was referencing his time as a builder when an environmental review is part of the construction process. Although he steered clear of the global warming debate after long expressing doubts Trump touted the value of U.S. oil and liquified national gas reserves and called for new infrastructure to harness it. He said the domestic industry is creating 'tremendous wealth and LNG is being sought over all over Europe and all over the world.' 'Im not going to lose that wealth. Im not going to lose it on dreams on windmills which frankly arent working too well' Trump said once again taking a shot at a growing renewable energy source. 'I want clean air. I want clean water I want a wealthy country. I want a spectacular country with jobs with pensions with so many things and that's what we're getting so I want to be very careful at the same time at the same time it's very important to me very important to me we have to maintain this incredible this incredible place that we've all built. We've become much richer country and that's a good thing not a bad thing because that great wealth allows us to take care of people' Trump said. He concluded his remarks with some environmental boosterism. 'We can take care of people that we couldn't afford taking care of the past because of the great wealth we can't let that wealth is taken away clean air clean water thank you very much everybody I appreciate it thank you' he concluded. Trump was scheduled to attend the session on climate biodiversity and oceans but his chair remained empty while other leaders pledged a modest 20 million to help put out fires that are raging across wide swaths of the Amazon jungles in Brazil. 'He wasnt in the room but his team was there' French President Emmanuel Macron said. The White House attributed his absence to scheduled one on one meetings that he attended withIndia's Prime Minister Narendra Modi andGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel both of whom managed to attend. 'The President had scheduled meetings and bilaterals with Germany and India so a senior member of the Administration attended in his stead' White House Press Secretary Stephanie Grisham told DailyMail.com and other news outlets. A White House official said the stand in was an aide from the National Security Council. Trump started the morning behind schedule. His meeting with Merkel was delayed about two hours. Asked about the global warming meeting during a photo op with Merkel the president said 'Were having it in a little while.' He had no reply to a journalist who informed him that it was already underway. During his meeting with Modi Trump said that he wants 'clean air and clean water' but made no comment about his decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate accord. He did offer however that the climate change discussion would be his next stop. That never materialized. Trump is a climate change skeptic who once claimed it was a hoax invented by the Chinese. United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres said Monday that the world faces 'a dramatic climate emergency.' He will ask leaders at a Sept. 23 summit in New York to agree to cut greenhouse gas emissions by more than they promised in the 2015 Paris agreement. Guterres said Monday that 'we are much worse than we were during Paris ... and so it's absolutely essential that countries commit themselves to increase what was promised.' Guterres claimed that Greenland's ice cap was melting 'dramatically' and that 2015 through 2019 were 'the five hottest years on record.'	False	False	False	False	False
The U.S. Department of Agriculture USDA is actively trying to muzzle and minimize scientific reports warning about the impacts of climate change according to a Monday Politico report. The research Trump officials are trying to keep hidden could help farmers deal with the impact of climate change such as how climate change affects the protein in wheat fed to cattle or how changes in carbon dioxide levels alters the nutrients in rice. But rather than promote such peer reviewed research by the USDA's Agricultural Research Service ARS the agency refuses to even issue press releases. In one instance about research on rice the agency tried to dissuade a research partner the University of Washington from publicly discussing research. It was so unusual to have an agency basically say 'Don't do a press release' Jeff Hodson a communications director at the university told Politico. We stand for spreading the word about the science we do especially when it has a potential impact on millions and millions of people. Research from Politico showed the USDA did not attempt any promotion or press releases for 45 ARS studies that mentioned climate change. The intent is to try to suppress a message in this case the increasing danger of human caused climate change said Michael Mann a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University. Who loses out? The people who are already suffering the impacts of sea level rise and unprecedented super storms droughts wildfires and heat waves. Anti science censorship has become a hallmark of the Trump administration. In August 2018 a survey of 63000 government scientists warned that censorship has been a problem in the Trump administration from the beginning. When a multi agency report on climate change was released in November 2018 Trump's EPA administrator Andrew Wheeler complained that it had too much science in it. As recently as June the Trump administration prevented a scientist from writing about climate change in testimony before Congress because it didn't jibe with the administration's view on the topic. Trump has been clear that he does not believe in the sound science behind climate change writing it off as a hoax. Trump said he didn't believe the multi agency scientific report about climate change noted above. Trump has also chosen fellow climate change skeptics for the highest levels of his administration including Sonny Perdue who leads the Department of Agriculture. In May career government economists accused Perdue and his agency of retaliating against them for their reports showing that Trump's tax and farm subsidy policies are hurting the very rural voters he promised to help. Now farmers may also feel the brunt of the pain from not receiving information about how to cope with the changing environment. Perdue refused to comment on this latest report that his agency is suppressing scientific research. If you're taking a certain block of research and not communicating it it defeats the purpose of why USDA does the research in the first place Robert Bonnie who worked at USDA during President Obama's administration told Politico. Rather than embrace science the Trump administration is hurting farmers in order to cling to an anti science political position. Published with permission of The American Independent.	False	False	False	False	False
What is the goal of a funeral? Is it to pay tribute to a life lost? To commit the soul of the decedent to his final reward? Or an opportunity to extolyour passion for environmental justice? A recent Vox piece by Dean Peterson states with dogged solemnity that modern burials are awful for the environment and has an accompanying video whose combination of animation the veneer of open mindedness and a vocally inflective narrator discreetly blurs the line between providing information and outright advocacy. Its yet another instance of the environmentally conscious Left virtue signaling about the negative effects of nearly everything human beings do Not even the way we mourn our dead is safe from their parade of moral superiority. The piece and video discuss the environmental effects of American funerals with their caskets embalming fluid and grave sites. The piece claims the average burial costs up to 12000 though the National Funeral Directors Associations most recent report indicated average costs almost 3500 less than that. Either way thats a lot of money of course but the point is not to expiate upon the market forces driving prices in the funeral industry. What is most remarkable is the pieces bizarre stance on this debate Petersons primary concern appears to be getting rid of Grandma with as small of a carbon footprint as possible rather than reverence intergenerational remembrance or even concern for the grieving. We all hold a hierarchy of values. For most people of good conscience the value of a human beings life supersedes that of our dog or a backyard plant. We make decisions every day accordingly. We routinely delay temporal pleasure for example in the hopes of attaining goals we hold in higher esteem such as when we diet exercise or volunteer. Each individual has values good and bad and they often remain in tension with one another. It is after all the measure of ones moral fitness to value some things say forgiveness over others vengeance. What makes radical environmentalism and its private jet flying propagators so toxic a cultural beast is how high on its adherents totem pole they are willing to place environmental concerns often over some of the most elemental human needs and desires. The wish to have additional children for example is a cause for deep apprehension among environmentalists who seem all at once indifferent and tone deaf to how out of touch such a sentiment is. In this Vox piece it appears that some environmentalists have shifted focused to the other side of lifes journey death and more specifically how we bury our loved ones. For most normal people funerary concerns are primarily about memorializing the deceased within the reasonable bounds of ones budget. Petersons video notes that in this strange race to the environmental bottom some advocates believe burying Aunt Lisa in a casket is an alarming degradation of the environment some might even want her tossed straight into the ground. Maybe he suggests readers could consider freezing their bodies with liquid nitrogen or having their ashes turned into a coral reef. Its an odd calculus at play in the authors mind where the ultimate barometer of a funerals efficacy is its environmental impact statement. Its totally legitimate to criticize modern burials on its face the piece seems a cogent critique of excesses in the funeral industry. But what is particularly troubling about Voxs article is its larger point that we as humans must give perpetual deference to some vague conception of environmentalism at most any cost. As the oft repeated refrain goes is environmentalist hysteria the inevitable fate of a society that ceases to believe in God? When organized religion fades and its would be adherents are left to search for meaning does the god of the environment end their search for a moral authority? Pardon the extended biblical analogy but Voxs piece sounds more than a bit like Judas Iscariots laments about the funeral rituals performed on Christ. When Mary Magdalene anoints Christ with perfumes and oil as a pre burial ritual on a night leading up to His execution a livid Judas berates her gesture protesting that the money used to buy the perfume could have been spent on the poor. Johns Gospel provides the relevant addendum He did not say this because he cared about the poor but because he was a thief as keeper of the money bag he used to help himself to what was put into it. That statement not only describes Judass moral disorder but also reminds the audience that any concern holy as it may be poverty reduction environmental protection or any other earthly mission that does not give a preferential deference to God His creation and acts of beauty such as that of Mary Magdalene are sure signs of misaligned priorities. This piece from Vox forces us to ask the question At what point does genuine concern for the environment turn into a power grab so vicious that one would rather soak Grandpa in liquid nitrogen than give him a proper burial? John Hirschauer is a senior economics studentat Fairfield University a columnist for the Fairfield Mirror and the host of The Outlet with John Hirschauer radio program.	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON The Environmental Protection Agency is drawing heat for pulling its scientists from a paneldiscussion Monday in Rhode Island as part of a conference spotlighting the effects of climate change on the Narragansett Bay. The withdrawal of the two scientists as well as an agency consultanthas sparked fresh criticism about EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt'sskepticism toward the broad scientific community's conclusion that human caused global warming is a proven fact and a growing concern. The conference where the scientists were scheduled to speak coincidedwith the release of a report showing the threats of climate change to NarragansettBay the 196 square mile estuary whose watershed encompasses 1705 square miles with more than100towns and cities that are home to nearly 2 million people. Climate change is affecting air and water temperatures precipitation sea level and fish in the Narragansett Bay region the report which was partially funded by the EPAconcludes. Narragansett Bay is one of 28 estuaries that make up the National Estuary Program an EPA program designed to protect and restore the water quality and ecological integrity of estuaries of national significance. Rhode Island's two U.S. senators Democrats Jack Reed and Sheldon Whitehouse criticized the EPA's decision during an appearance Monday at the conference in Providence R.I. This has traditionally been a bipartisan issue Whitehouse said citing former Rhode Island GOP Sen. John Chafee's role establishing the estuaryprogram. So there is no reason for it to have to be this way. And it should not take away from the terrific scientific work that is being done because at the heart of all this is not the politics its the knowledge. Reed said he was disheartened and disappointed that the EPA scientists were not allowed to publicly present their findings. This type of political interference or scientific censorship whatever you want to call it is ill advised and does a real disservice to the American peopleand public health. Scientific evidenceand input iscrucial to policy efforts. It informs decision makers. We can debate the issues we can have different viewpointsbut we should all be able to objectively examine the data and look at the evidence ... Now is not the time to turn a blind eye to what science is telling us that climate change and other factors are influencing the health of this estuary ... I hope the Trump administration will look at the facts read this report and reconsider its stance on trying to muzzle scientists who present evidence that doesn't conform to their political agenda. The EPA has not responded to a request for comment. Agency spokesmanJohn Konkus told The Washington Postin an email Sunday that EPA scientists are attending they simply are not presenting it is not an EPA conference. The agency officials initially scheduled to speak during the conference areAutumn Oczkowski a research ecologist at the EPAs National Health and Environmental Effects Research Laboratory Atlantic Ecology Division in Rhode Island andRose Martin a postdoctoral fellow at the same EPAlaboratory according to The New York Times which first reported the story. Emily Shumchenia an EPAconsultant was also scheduled to take part in an afternoon panel titled The Present and Future Biological Implications of Climate Change. Analysis Is the war on coal really over?	False	False	False	False	False
At least eighteen environmental groups filed four lawsuits in one day against the Trump administration including suits to keep in place Obama era environmental policies. Environmentalists filed their suit Wednesday. Theyare living up to threats made after President Donald Trump took office namely to use the courts to preserve Obama administration policies. These include orders that stop offshore drilling and force the closure of coal plants. The League of Conservation Voters LCV led eight other groups in a legal challengeof Trumps recent executive order to reopen large swaths of Arctic seas to offshore drilling.LCV is one of the many environmental groups that endorsed Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential election. Never in LCVs history have we taken this step Gene Karpinski LCVs president said in a statement. The permanent protections President Obama established for the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans were won with years of research lobbying and organizing. The suit argues Obama used his authority Section 12a of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to put most Arctic waters off limits to development. The act does not allow future presidents to undo placing waters off limits activists argue. The same day Earthjustice and the Center for Biological Diversity CBD filed suits to challenge the administration. Earthjustice sued to stop the Environmental Protection Agencys EPA decision to indefinitely stay the implementation of wastewater discharge rules for coal plants. CBD filed suit against EPA for not finalizing deadlines for the cities of Washington D.C. and Philadelphia to meet ozone standards. CBD also sued for Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitts emails and schedule. Earthjustice and CBD joined LCVs suit against Trumps EPA. So far CBD has filed 15 lawsuits against the administration something which the activist group publicly brags about. CBD famously sued the Department of Homeland Security DHS to stop the construction of a wall on the U.S. Mexico border. CBD wants the court to force DHS to conduct a programmatic environmental impact statement on border enforcement operations. Trump can expect more lawsuits as he continues to rollback Obama era policies. Environmentalists spent years lobbying and campaigning to get such policies in place. The Natural Resources Defense Council NRDC for example played a pivotal role in crafting the Clean Power Plan which became Obamas signature global warming policy. But Trump ordered EPA to review the Clean Power Plan asking the agency to see if it needed to be modified or rescinded. NRDC and other environmental groups were already locked in legal battles to keep the power plant rule from being overturned. NRDC has filed its fair share of lawsuits against Trump as well. They filed two lawsuits against the administration in February to keep the EPA from withdrawing a mercury rule and to oppose an executive order requiring agencies to repeal two regulations for every new one imposed. In March NRDC and other environmentalists sued to block the Keystone XL oil pipeline from being built. Theyalso tried to intervene in a lawsuit against a national ocean monument Obama created. The group filed at least two lawsuits in April challenging Trumps delaying energy efficiency standards for appliances and the administrations refusal to ban certain pesticides. NRDC attorneys are also representing LCV and others in the suit to keep Arctic waters off limits to drilling. Were President Trump able to get away with this the country would lose an important tool for protecting its vital interest in clean and vibrant oceans and coasts Niel Lawrence NRDCs Alaska director told Bloomberg. By now its clear there is no legitimate public interest in further expanding risk to our oceans in pursuit of fossil fuels that we dont need Lawrence said. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	False	False	False	False	False
Before I address that question I just stumbled upon an article in the August 1 Washington Post. There the Post updated its truth squad totals on Donald Trump 4229 false and misleading statements in 558 days. I then reflected upon Anderson Coopers infamous April 17 2018 CNN interview of Jim Jordan. In that interview a fumbling Jordan firmly insisted to Coopers amazement that he never heard Trump lie. This is the same Jim Jordan who less than three months later saw no evil and heard no evil in the Ohio State sex scandal that victimized some of Jordans former wrestling students. I wondered to myself how Jordans credibility would hold up when cross examined in court on this issue now that these incredible statements are in the public domain. No wonder Trump loves Jordan! Every word Trump speaks is the Truth in Jordans world. Sure Jordans a politician and all politicians lie at some time or anothersee Adams . But its quite another thing when you live your entire Congressional career as one big liea lie that causes long term harm not only to the folks living in your district but the country as a whole. Nowhere is that lie more obvious than in Jim Jordans approach to global warming and general environmental issues. And heres why Jordan will live on in villainy. In July 2008 after being in Congress for a year and a half Jim Jordan was the first member of Congress to sign the No Climate Tax Pledge. Yes the first to sign his initial salvo in an unrelenting fight he wages against our planet. The pledge or vow is the product of Americans for Prosperity the conservative political advocacy group funded by David and Charles Koch. This is the outfit that went to war with the Obama Administration initiatives to combat global warming. The promise itself is significant for a couple of reasons 1 it opposes any legislation relating to climate change that includes a net increase in government revenue 2 it drives the final nail in the coffin of environmental bipartisanship which had been the norm for decades. Lets take a closer look at this. First 71 of Americans now think that most scientists believe global warming is occurring 68 of Americans believe global warming is caused by human activities. March 14 2017 Gallup poll. Record percentages of Americans are now concerned about global warming. I would predict the same percentages of belief would apply to Jordans Ohio 4th Congressional District plus or minus a few points. But Jordan wanted to be the first congressman in the USA to sell out the voters of a congressional districtnever mind it had to be his own. He couldnt wait to curry favor with the Koch boys and sign on the dotted line. What hes really saying is Regardless how bad it gets how severe the droughts how out of control the forest fires how strong the tornadoes and hurricanes how hot the summers how cold the winters how deep the floods how devastating the blizzards how much the ice caps melt how high the oceans rise I will not vote to tax tariff or otherwise increase revenues to cap the use of fossil fuels unless that money is cut or borrowed from somewhere else in the budget. And in Jordans case that would be Social Security Medicare education health care and the like Programs that benefit folks in his district. So from that July day in 2008 Jordan waged his own war on the environment Voting to bar greenhouse gasses from Clean Air Act rules voting against enforcing limits on carbon dioxide global warming pollution against tax incentives for renewable electricity and energy conservation against curtailing subsidies for oil and gas company exploration but voting in favor of opening the Outer Continental Shelf to oil drilling. The League of Conservation Voters National Environmental Scorecard awarded Jordan a perfect 0 score for his 2017 record and a lifetime score of 4 for his work. The saddest part of this story however is the depth weve descended into the abyss of partisanship on environmental issues. These were matters that we have historically agreed on if for no other reason than the sake of our children and grandchildrens future. For example in 1969 Congress passed the landmark National Environmental Policy Act NEPA. This revolutionary piece of legislation unanimously passed the Senate the vote in the House was 372 Years with only 15 Nays. Nixon signed it into law on New Year's Day 1970. Now thanks to guys like Jordan NEPA would not even be brought to the floor for a vote if it were introduced in todays Congress. In contrast Janet Garrett by philosophy an environmentalist will push for and support an agenda that will guarantee clean water clean air and the reduction of greenhouse gasses. Garrett knows the value of Environmental Protection on those who knowingly violate our statutes Janet will push for criminal enforcement. Garrett will defend our National Park system and public lands as she understands the need to preserve the earth for her children and grandchildren. To Janet this is a moral issue. Please support Janet Garrett in her efforts to replace Jordan in Congress.	False	False	False	False	False
CNN just posted an article about rising sea levels. Its good to know that the editors are much smarter than President Donald Trump or his equally climate denying Environmental Protection Agency Commissioner Scott Pruitt. The EPA matters because climate change is right up there with the national debt as a threat to national security. The DoD in a recent report says that rising sea levels will put more than a thousand military installations in serious jeopardy. But CNN is wrong in their projections. Ive just returned from Antarctica on a research trip to validate the most likely temperature and sea level rise projections in the ClyFy novel Im writing. 3F of average temperature increase and three feet of sea level rise by 2050. The scientists all agreed these were plausible. I commented Two feet by 2100? Get real. 3 feet by 2050. Talk to me after Cat 6 hurricanes blanket the Caribbean every year. Last year was just a preview. Pay attention CNN. Sea level rise is accelerating. One witty Facebook user quipped I will be dead by that time so who cares? I thought he was being sarcastic but he turned out to be dead serious. And there you have it. This is why deniers exist. They dont want to spend their own money to solve a problem that might affect their grandkids and not themselves. Its pure unadulterated selfishness. They cant accept the truth of that so they deny the science of climate change. The equation that is most dangerous according to Jeffrey Kluger of Time is n1 otherwise stated as If it matters to me it counts. If not I dont give a damn. Trump and Pruitt and others of their ilk might have greed and corruption as motives. But n1 applies to them too.	False	False	False	False	False
In the next few weeksCalifornia Gov. Gavin Newsom is slated to announce his administrations energy policy strategy and many environmental groups thereare hopingit will include plans to end oil and gas drilling in the nations most populous state and phase out all fossil fuel extraction. At the very least green groups are hoping that Newsom who campaigned last year on a promise to end controversial extraction methods like fracking and who has been a key figure in the fight to curtail climate change will create buffer zones for any new oil and gas wells near schools hospitals and residential neighborhoods and also monitor for dangerous emissions from plugged or abandoned wells. I consider to remain optimistic given how he expressed interest in issues that former California Gov. Jerry Brown did not address Kathryn Phillips the director of the Sierra Club California told Fox News. The governor needs to make a plan to transition the state away from oil and gas toward renewables but also transition workers into jobs in that sector. But as Newsoms term in Sacramento approaches its fifth month many of these groups are losing patience as the governor tries to balance a clean energy agenda with the demands of an industry that supports hundreds of thousands of jobs in a state with around 26 million vehicles on the road. Im taking a very pragmatic look at it in scoping this Newsom told The Los Angeles Times recently. Its also an inclusive scoping because it includes people in the industry that have jobs communities that are impacted from an environmental justice prism but also from an economic justice prism. Its a challenging issue. Newsom must now weigh the support he received from environmental groups while on the campaign trail and his own assurances that he wants California to be powered 100 percent by renewable energy in the near future with any moves that could negatively affect a billion dollar industry in a state that has the worlds fifth largest economy. Even with Californias oil production being in decline for years the state was the nations fifth largest domestic crude oil producerin 2017 according to figures compiled by the federal government. His intentions are very pragmatic Catherine Reheis Boyd the president of the Western States Petroleum Association told Fox News. Newsomunderstands the importance of an industry to the 40 million people who will be driving 26 million combustible engines tomorrow. One practice that environmental groups are hoping Newsom will clamp down on more than his predecessor is hydraulic fracturing. Known more popularly as fracking it is a method of oil and gas extraction in which large volumes of high pressure water are shot into the ground. Fracking has come under intense scrutiny in recent years amid widespread concerns over both the public health and environmental risks it poses. While Brown approved restrictions on the practice back in 2013 he was lambasted by green groups for not banning fracking outright amid his argument that it could provide economic opportunities to some Californians. On the campaign trail last year Newsom was adamantly opposed to fracking but has so far remained quiet about the practice along with the possibility of banning offshore drilling in the state when discussing his energy agenda. Newsom however told the Los Angeles Times that despite his commitment to renewable energies it would be impossible to completely stop Californias reliance on fossil fuels at the moment. One cannot just turn off the switch. One cannot just immediately abut against a century of practice and policy Newsom said. Still California is one of the nations leaders in pushing forth a green energy agenda. Despite the criticism leveled against him for waffling on clamping down on the fossil fuel industry Brown last year signed two pieces of legislation that effectively banned the construction of any new offshore oil and gas pipelines in the states waters and thwarted a Trump administration plan to open nearly 1.7 billion acres of coastal waters to drilling. While California cannot directly block oil and gas drilling off its coast the legislation that Brown signed aims to drive up the operating costs of these operations enough to make the effort unprofitable. Thelaw does this by blocking state land managers from permitting the construction of new pipelines piers wharves or other infrastructure projects necessary to bring oil and gas from offshore drilling sites to land. California has positioned itself as the center of the Trump resistance Jessica Levinson a clinical law professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles told Fox News. Its bloody combat. California banned offshore drilling in state waters out to three miles back in 1994 and there havent been any new platforms built in the last 30 years. But California is the nations third largest oil producing state behind Texas and North Dakota and there are still 32 offshore oil platforms and artificial islands in federal and state waters off the coasts of Santa Barbara Ventura Los Angeles and Orange Counties. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP California may be leading the nation in curbing its reliance on fossil fuels and many environmental activists believe Newsom will take even bolder steps than his predecessor energy industry insiders like Reheis Boyd question what the point is when other states and nations are not doing their part as well. I get the idea of taking a lead on this issue and I think many companies agree with this she said. But at what cost is this being done especially when nobody else is doing anything.	False	False	False	False	False
The Amazon is burning at an alarming rate in Brazil with 72843 fires detected so far this year by the countrys space research center INPE. That amounts to an 83 percent increase over the same period in 2018 and the highest number since the agency started recording fires in 2013 meaning it is likely the highest number of fires to date. The sudden spike has prompted renewed concern that the destruction of the Amazon basin is the result of right wing President Jair Bolsonaros environmental policies that dont give much thought to the environment at all. The smoke from the fires has been so bad that when carried by the wind it caused an hourlong blackout in nearby So Paulo. The right wing populist Bolsonaro who has shown disdain for protecting the Amazonhome to 3 million species of plants and animals and 1 million or so peoplecame to power in January. The Bolsonaro regime has reversed previous governments efforts to enforce environmental regulations and protect what is the largest rainforest in the world. Over the past decade previous governments had managed to reduce deforestation with action by federal agencies and a system of fines. But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes the BBC reports. Last monththe far right president accused Inpes director of lying about the scale of deforestationin the Amazon and trying to undermine the government. It came after Inpe published data showing an 88 percent increase in deforestation there in June compared to the same month a year ago. Conversely NASA has reported overall fire activity in the Amazon basin has been slightly below average. Since Thursday INPE said satellite images spotted 9507 new forest fires in the country mostly in the Amazon basin home to the worlds largest tropical forest seen as vital to countering global warming Reuters reports. Wildfires have increased in Mato Grosso and Para two states where Brazils agricultural frontier has pushed into the Amazon basin and spurred deforestation. Wildfires are common in the dry season but are also deliberately set by farmers illegally deforesting land for cattle ranching. Bolsonaro dismissed alarm over the latest data saying it was simply the season that farmers use open fires to clear farmland. I used to be called Captain Chainsaw. Now I am Nero setting the Amazon aflame he said.	False	False	False	False	False
Madrid AFP A UN climate summit in Madrid was on life support Saturday after marathon negotiations between countries left them more divided than ever over on how to fight global warming and pay for its ravages. Diplomats from rich nations emerging giants and the world's poorest countries each for their own reasons found fault with a draft agreement put forward by host Chile in a botched attempt to strike common ground. Faced with fire alarm warnings from science deadly extreme weather made worse by climate change and weekly strikes by millions of young people negotiations in Madrid were under pressure to send a clear signal that governments were willing to double down in tackling the crisis. But the 12 day talks more than 24 hours after their scheduled end had retreated even further from this goal on Saturday. Simon Stiell Grenada envoy told AFP that the lack of ambition in the initial agreement text was crazy. It isn't reflective of the kids who are demonstrating on the streets the world over communities being washed away by rising sea levels he said late Saturday. We wanted provisions that were in the Paris agreement to remain and what we see at every COP it just seems to be another opportunity to erode those. Veteran observers of UN climate talks were stunned by the state of play nearly 24 hours after the negotiations had been due to close. I have never seen such a disconnect between what the science requires and the people of the world demand versus what the climate negotiations are delivering Alden Meyer strategy and policy director at the Union of Concerned Scientists told AFP. Alexandria Villasenor a 14 year old climate activist said she was disappointed in the lack of action at COP 25. The difference between the youth on the streets and the negotiations is that the youth on the streets are acting with urgency she told AFP. COP 25 has failed us and it's another year of failure. Under the Paris accord countries agreed in 2015 to work to limit global temperature rises to well below two degrees Celsius through a series of voluntary action pledges that step up over time. The push for a strengthening of voluntary carbon cutting plans is led by small island and least developed states along with the European Union. Ministers from this high ambition coalition have called out countries they see as blocking a consensus call for all countries to step up notably the United States Australia and Saudi Arabia. China and India the world's No. 1 and No. 4 carbon emitters have made it clear they see no need to improve on their current emissions reduction plans which run to 2030. These emerging giants have chosen instead to emphasise the historical responsibility of rich nations to lead the way and provide financing to poor countries. Observers told AFP Saturday evening that a possible landing ground had emerged in which China agreed to yield a little over language surrounding ambition in return for a clear reiteration of historic polluters' obligation to do more. The COP 25 summit was also meant to finalise a chapter on carbon markets in the Paris rulebook which goes into effect next year. Some nations notably Brazil and Australia want to count carbon credits accumulated under a previous climate deal as part of their commitments under the Paris goals further stymying progress. The United States which is leaving the landmark Paris climate deal next year was accused of acting as a spoiler on a number of issues vital to climate vulnerable nations. This included so called loss and damage funding to help disaster hit countries repair and rebuild. The US has not come here in good faith said Harjeet Singh climate lead with charity ActionAid. They continue to block the world's efforts to help people whose lives have been turned upside down by climate change. Even if nations in Madrid snatch victory from the jaws of defeat and agree to implement their pledges Earth is on course to warm more than 3C by 2100. If there was one time in the history when I would say governments fucked up I would say today in Madrid governments fucked up said Mohamed Adow Director of Power Shift Africa. People across the world must rise to save the planet.	False	False	False	False	False
Perpetual presidential candidate Bernie Sanders continues his Gimme tour with more and more promises to steal from the poor to give to the rich. This week Bernie met Britta. Britta is concerned about climate change in particular you nasty vile carnivores out there. Britta used her one opportunity to quiz a presidential candidate to ask aboutmeat. Okay. Okay. One second while I get my question. Okay so as you probably know animal agriculture is to blame for the majority of climate change and is the leading cause of deforestation water and air pollution and biodiversity loss. With that being known what do you plan on doing to ensure that Americans limit their consumption of animal products? Climate change is the leading cause of every bad thing on the earth is one hell of a You probably already know Britta. Got any facts to back that up or are we just making assumptions? Because as the great Samuel L. Jackson once uttered on film Never make assumptions. They only end up making an ass out of u and mption'. But Britta doesnt stop there. She goes on to cite Germany as a shining example of who we should want to be like. You may be completely shocked to learn that Bernie Sanders responded by affirming that indeed America needs to be more like the nation that brought us Hitler the Holocaust and the VW Bug only one of those things is good by the way. In case you needed some clarity. Sanders did not say outright that a meat tax is an official policy of his platform but he did give it the old politician shine indicating that he would support such a notion and that also hes interested in helping farmers become more aggressive about combatting climate change. Yes Im sure farmers will be very excited for your help which will be tantamount to them giving up their land their livestock and their livelihood effectively causing a nationwide famine but heysocialists got to socialist. Thank you for the question and its a good question. All I can say is if we believe as I do and you do that climate change is real were going to have to tackle it in every single area including agriculture. Okay? And in fact one of the things we want to do with our farmers out there is help them become more aggressive and able to help us combat climate change rather than contribute to it. So we will certainly youre right weve got to look at agriculture weve got to look at every cause of the crisis that we face. No word yet on if Sanders will be getting equally aggressive with his own multiple vacation properties.	False	False	False	False	False
