The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed.	Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque amongst the buildings damaged.	The 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia.	There is a ship washed ashore she added.	Last month a series of earthquakes struck the Indonesian island of Lombok killing hundreds of people the biggest on 5 August killed more than 460.	True
ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The borderis an ecological theater where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays.	ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The bordersis an ecological theatre where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays.	One of its authors a leading professor from Stanford condemned the US border wall project branding it a 'crime against biodiversity'.	Analysis of the animals that reside in the region reveals the controversial wall could threaten the movement of 1500 animal and plant species that reside in the area.	The authors conclude that 'national security can and must be pursued with an approach that preserves our natural heritage.'	True
Like this story?	Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers.	he said.	Critics of the sale fear the expansion in offshore drilling could devastate marine life and lead to roll backs in environmental protections.	The Center for American Progress a left leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement saying in a statement that offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources.	False
introduced a formal resolution on it which stalled in the Senate but drewsupport from a number of 2020 hopefuls.	In a nod to the social justice part of the plan he says that the deal is an opportunity to uproot historical injustices and inequities to advance social racial and economic justice including redressing the exclusion of black brown Native Americanand other vulnerable communities from the programs that made up the original New Deal.	As president Bernie Sanders will launch the decade of the Green New Deal a ten year nationwide mobilization centered around justice and equity during which climate change will be factored into virtually every area of policy from immigration to trade to foreign policy and beyond his campaign said in a press release.	The plan also promises support for the climate justice movement to take on the fossil fuel industry and other polluters and lead the globe in solving the climate crisis.	He also promises justice for frontline communities via a 40 billion Climate Justice Resiliency Fund as well as an extra 200 billion to the Green Climate Fund.	True
Driven by an anti immigrant agenda the Trump administration is callously putting construction of an environmentally and culturally destructive border wall above water resources for communities on both sides of the border federally protected lands clean air and the lives of hundreds of endangered species all while turning a blind eye to the vital relationships of cross border communities and our longstanding values as a nation she said in a statement.	Trumps wall is a divisive symbol of fear and hatred and it does real harm to the landscape and communities.	Trump wants to scare people into letting him ignore the law and endanger wildlife and people Brian Segee an attorney with the Center for Biological Diversity said in a statement.	Despite sidestepping these laws DHS is committed to responsible environmental stewardship and will continue to assess potential impacts coordinate with relevant stakeholders and to the extent possible offset or mitigate potential impacts department spokesman Carlos Diaz said in an email to HuffPost.	It described the sector which includes some 60 miles of the U.S. Mexico border as an area of high illegal entry for which there is an immediate need to improve current infrastructure and construct additional border barriers and roads.	True
But this has nothing to do with the Paris climate accord.	Everything Schwarzenegger mentions in his short videofrom air pollution to clean water to asthma emphysema and canceris completely unrelated to the Presidents decision to withdraw from the Paris accord.	President Trump says hes pulling out of the Paris climate agreement.	My message to you Mr. President is that as a public servant and especially as a president your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people Schwarzenegger begins.	Meanwhile he should probably think about terminating that video.	False
So the question of whether the US should actually pull out of the agreement has reportedly been the subject of intense debate within the Trump administration.	The Associated Presss Jill Colvin and Julie Pace though report that Trumps decision may not be entirely clear cut and that aides continued to deliberate on caveats in the language.	The major Republican presidential candidates harshly criticized the Paris deal in particular and Trump promised to withdraw from it during the campaign.	Still withdrawing from such a recent agreement that the vast majority of countries across the world have signed on to has serious consequences for Americas role as a global leader.	Silicon Valley business leaders like Apple CEO Tim Cook and Tesla CEO Elon Musk have also been arguing that the US should stick to the agreement.	True
What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency.	It is very worrying.	Despite the declaration by President Trump that he intends to take the US out of the deal negotiators meeting in Germany will be aiming to advance and clarify the rulebook of the Paris agreement.	It may be a climate change feedback.	This was not expected in the Paris agreement.	True
Its bloody combat.	But there is perhaps no area where California has been more combative against the White House agenda than the environment.	California Gov.	Jerry Brown ramped up his criticism of President Trump in an interview that aired Monday calling the president a saboteur in the fight to combat climate change and saying that somethings got to happen to this guy.	Speaking to MSNBCs Andrea Mitchell at an environmentalsummitin San Francisco last week Brown tore into Trump for the presidents controversial tweets about the death toll in Puerto Rico from last years Hurricane Maria and urged voters to vote for Democrats in Novembers midterm elections in an effort to thwart Trumps agenda.	True
The environmental activist's recent images taken while touring Canada's east coast in Montreal and Quebec are in sharp contrast to images of the 16 year old speaking in an emotionally charged appearance last month at the Climate Action Summit 2019 in New York.	Last week Thunberg addressed on social media the negativity she's received for speaking out on climate change saying 'Here we go again... As you may have noticed the haters are as active as ever going after me my looks my clothes my behaviour and my differences.	You are failing us.	Right here right now is where we draw the line.	Greta Thunberg's fiery speech at the UN Climate Action Summit in New York This is all wrong.	True
Both lawmakers were responding to a question asked by Axios Amy Harder during the event.	Theres a resolution that has a dream but theres no bill theres no contents at all.	The top lawmakers on the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources were unified in their opposition to the Green New Deal and unreadiness to back taxes on carbon dioxide emissions.	Murkowski said the Green New Deal was distracting from bipartisan efforts to fight global warming.	Republicans on the other hand want to get Democrats on the record in support of a proposal they see as socialism.	True
And in a visit last week to East Chicago Indianawhich is grappling with a lead contamination crisis affecting both the water and soil Pruitt reportedly denied to a resident of the town that Region 5 was on the chopping block.	There are a lot of folks who simply wont do the move.	My question is Why us?	About a month ago the union got three press calls in the same day asking if it had heard there was announcement Region 5 might be closed.	Mikulka the EPA employees union president said shuttering Region 5 would be an effective way to hobble an agency whose mission is largely at odds with the Trump administrations deregulation orientedanti climate protection stance.	True
Brown who has made fighting climate change a core of his policy and political platform said the state's battles with Washington over climate are the most essential.	The world is not flat pollution is not free and the health and safety of our children is not for sale said Democratic state Attorney General Xavier Becerra standing alongside the governor.	They argue the plan violates the federal Clean Air Act and didn't follow the agency's own regulations.	At issue is a move by Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt to roll back 2012 rules aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions.	If we follow the Pruitt Trump path we follow our way off the cliff to disaster he said.	True
Fox who has clashed with Trump since last year's presidential campaign said the U.S. leader's decision condemns this generation and those to come and would leave a dark legacy just to satisfy your greediness.	In Mexico former President Vicente Fox criticized Trump's move saying on Twitter He's declaring war on the planet itself.	World leaders reacted with dismay Thursday to President Trump's announcement that he was pulling out of the Paris climate accord while three prominent European heads of state rejected his suggestion that the deal could be renegotiated.	He said I do respect this decision but I do think it is an actual mistake both for the U.S. and for our planet.	French President Emmanuel Macron German Chancellor Angela Merkel and and Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentilonisaid in a joint statement that they regretted the United States' decision to withdraw from the accord but affirmed our strongest commitment to implement its measures and encouraged all our partners to speed up their action to combat climate change.	True
This announcement drew fierce criticism from world leaders and activists with former UN secretary general Ban Ki moon accusing Trump of standing on the wrong side of history.	As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of carbon footprints and preaching renewable energy they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world.	In June President Donald Trump announced the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accord arguing that it was a deeply flawed document that put American workers at an economic disadvantage.	Most signatories Solomon notes in an essay in last Fridays Financial Post are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios.	Ms. Lagarde is no stranger to exaggerated predictions having proposed in 2016 that a Brexit victory would lead to 500000 job losses while suggesting that Brexit voters are narrow minded and calling for a united Europe.	True
On June 2 Nightly News correspondent Kristen Welker promoted an anti Trump protest over this decision hyping the backlash is only heating up.	The most consistent factor in all of this coverage was the criticism.	NBC Nightly News anchor Savannah Guthrie on June 1 criticized the move to withdraw from the climate treaty detractors say it is a stunning abandonment of the U.S.s leadership in the world and a grave threat to the planet itself.	Thus our analysts ignored soundbites which merely showcased the traditional party line Republicans supporting Trump Democrats criticizing him and instead tallied evaluative statements which imparted a clear positive or negative tone to the story such as statements from experts presented as non partisan voters or opinionated statements from the networks own reporters.	In their pursuit of this agenda the broadcast networks' have heavily criticized the Trump administration's policies on the environment.	True
The divergence shows how years of political squabbling over global warming including disputes over its existence have grown deep roots distorting the way Americans view the world around them.	The divide will play into the 2020 election as Democratic hopefuls seek to sell aggressive proposals to reduce or even end fossil fuel consumption by drawing links between climate change and recent floods storms and wildfires.	Last year the Yale program which carries out scientific research on public knowledge about climate change set out to map the partisan divide on how people perceive the effects of global warming across the United States.	Two years ago he announced the United States would withdraw from a global pact to reduce carbon emissions the Paris Climate Agreement a deal Trump said could damage the U.S. economy.	But they are worlds apart when it comes to their opinion of the weather.	True
These are the inextricable demands of a resistance as powerful as it is diverse and as strong as it is resilient.	Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people.	This spring throughout a week of powerful demonstrations from Earth Day to May Day this resistance will blossom.	Our policy developed in partnership with mainstream environmental groups labor unions public health organizations and other stakeholders represents some of the best of what a unified national resistance could create Comprehensive equitable action against the biggest existential threat of our generation climate change.	Some environmental leaders are responding by formulating a lowest common denominator strategy on climate like revenue neutral approaches hoping to magically create a middle ground by bowing to the altar of limited government.	True
This stance has ultimately led me to being systematically attacked any time I make a public statement about climate change in effect railroading me out of the climate debate as an unwelcome voice Pielke wrote.	Pielkes motivation in releasing an updated version of his book initially published in 2014 was he saw the issue of extreme weather become politicized.	Every time there is a disaster politicians journalists and scientists unfailingly spring to life to tell us that the disaster and the costs and suffering that accompanied it were associated with linked to or even caused by climate change Pielke wrote in his newly updated book.	While political spin doctors often find ways to parse language and statistics to say things that are plausibly defensible but which are ultimately misleading or just wrong for me such misrepresentations have gone too far in an area where I have some considerable expertise Pielke wrote.	The willingness of some in the media and the scientific community to offer false or misleading claims does not offer a route to scientific integrity Pielke wrote.	True
Energy Secretary Rick Perry offered little explanation when protesters pressed him to explain his position on climate change at an energy conference on Tuesday.	You are a climate denier said the first demonstrator as members of the audience booed and called for her to sit down and to get her out of here.	Undeterred the protester kept shouting questions at Perry who then told her If youll sit down young lady Ill finish my remarks.	In climate science unresolved questions remain issues that currently lack conclusive evidence.	During his EIA conference speech on Tuesday Perry was interrupted a second time by a protester who also called him a climate denier.	True
The administration argues he doesn't have jurisdiction.	On Friday he heard two and a half hours of arguments and saidthat he was leaning toward deciding he has jurisdiction in a lawsuit that alleges the Trump administration overreached in waiving laws that require environmental and other reviews.	Now Curiel will be hearing a case about the wall.	'It's time to stop Trump's hateful bombast and his executive overreach here in San Diego before it goes any further.	A lawsuit has been filed by the Center for Biological Diversityenvironmental groups and the State of California against theU.S.	True
Curry who spoke at length with Mass about the events wrote The attacks ramped up when a group of students complained to the Assistant Dean for Diversity Equity and Inclusion.	The matter didnt end there however and Atmospheric Sciences Department Chair Dale Durran sent a mass email to the Department faculty including the link to Lenfernas post and voicing concern about Mass behavior and racism' Curry noted.	Climate scientist Cliff Mass is speaking out against academic political bullying from University of Washington faculty and students stemming from Masss rejection of a carbon tax initiative favored by activists.	Climate scientist Judith Curry detailed in a blog postWednesday the actions UW and student activists have taken against Mass in recent months.	The assistant deans email claimed the blog had imagery and text that was racially insensitive and caused offense to a significant number of members in the departmental community.	True
The American Petroleum Institute a defendant in the case disagreed with the ruling.	U.S. District Court Judge Sharon Gleason in a decision late Friday threw out Mr. Trump's executive order that overturned the bans that comprised a key part of Obama's environmental legacy.	He said it is meant to be flexible and sensible and not intended to bind one president with decisions made by another when determining offshore stewardship as needs and realities change over time.	Acting Assistant U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Wood said during a hearing before Gleason in November that environmental groups were misinterpreting the intent of the law written in 1953.	Earthjustice represented numerous environmental groups that sued the Trump administration over the April 2017 executive order reversing the drilling bans.	True
Yet in public it vociferously fought regulations and policies that would have limited fossil fuel emissions while publicly questioning the science behind climate change.	Wassermanwrote an op edin January for the California paper fleshing out specifics about the probes into Exxons climate research.	It veered off and crashed into the Bligh Reef causing Exxon more than 3.4 billion through 2008 in cleanup costs and court settlements.	Floating chunks of ice forced the tanker out of its primary shipping lane the paper noted.	Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project the group that conducted the papers report was also involved in an investigation last November targeting Exxons climate change research.	True
Womens suffrage and womens rights.	The civil rights movement and the anti apartheid movement in South Africa.	The abolition of slavery.	The climate crisis is by far the most serious challenge we face.	Former VP Al Gore compares climate battle to fight against slavery and apartheid Fox Friends tweeted.	True
Critics of Trumps energy policies seized on the opportunity to criticize the president for his Earth Day message.	One of the biggest complaints from protesters is Trump has proposed cutting 54 billion from numerous federal government agencies including a cut to the Environmental Protection Agency that tops 30 percent.	According to a report by Fox News the order also chips away at other regulations including scrapping language on the social cost of greenhouse gases.	Public radio show host Al Letson wrote How will you preserve the natural beauty of the land if you dismantle the Nathan Bernard from Brooklyn New York replied on Twitter You say Happy as you prepare to literally blow up the entire earth.	Trumps Earth Day messages come as thousands of protesters across the country have taken to the streets to defend science against what they claim are anti science policies and proposals from the White House.	False
The proposals electrified a static debate that too often ranged from outright denialism of climate change by some to dubious market fixes offered by others.	But GOP opposition to a Green New Deal the grassroots effort to dramatically cut greenhouse gas emissions that has energized activists for months was on full display.	Despite years of partisan bickering over the realities of climate change the idea proved popular.	Impossible.	Glamour Rep. John Shimkus R Ill. long a climate change denier who in the past has relied on Bible verses to make his case argued against the Green New Deal at a House hearing on Wednesday.	True
In exchange for getting some of its national debt paid off the island nation has agreed to protect 210000 sq km 81000 sq miles of ocean.	This is a critical accomplishment in our mission to bring conservation to scale across the globe said Nature Conservancy CEO Mark Tercek.	This is understood to be the first debt swap designed to protect ocean areas in the world.	The Seychelles government agreed the debt swap with the Nature Conservancy a US charity and a number of investors back in 2016.	Seychelles President Danny Faure said Our large ocean brings development opportunities but also responsibility.	True
Im sure theres giant corruption going on.	So saysJames Lovelock 98 one of the worlds pre eminent environmentalists in a wide ranging interview on todays Delingpole podcast for Breitbart.	But this is nonsense says Lovelock.	There is global warming.	His change of heart was brought aboutpartly by being in Oslo when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.	False
Apparently Sloans arguments and those of like minded analysts prevailed on policy makers and the country rejected the CET with its taxpayer funded subsidizing of renewables.	The current state of affairs has not only undermined Germanys climate policy but also jeopardizes Germanys international reputation as a climate leader Solomon asserts.	The populist backlash a revulsion at top down governments laden with jet setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses has swept America with Trumps election Great Britain with Brexit much of Europe and Australia.	A second blow to disciples of the Paris Climate Accord was last weeks Austrian election Solomon argues which saw two conservative parties with no interest in climate change it wasnt even an election issue come in first and second making them likely to form a pro carbon coalition government.	Earlier this month the prominent Australian economist Judith Sloan wrote a scathing essay decrying renewable energy as the greatest scam being perpetrated against taxpayers and consumers greater even than Ponzi Madoffor Enron.	True
U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte of the Northern District of California said Interior had failed to give a reasoned explanation for the changes and had not offered details why an earlier analysis by the Obama administration was faulty.	In a way that cuts to the heart of everything this administration has done so far when it comes to environmental policy.	On Wednesday one federal judge reminded Donald Trump that hating Barack Obama is not a good enough reason to ignore key environmental protections.	The action followed an earlier effort by Interior to postpone part of the rule set to take effect next year.	While the previous administration let science and data drive its climate agenda the Trump administration has had one goal in mind destroying former President Obamas environmental legacy.	True
During a press conference Friday officials behind the report repeatedly declined to answer questions about the timing of its release and why it contradicts public statements from Trump.	He is a flawed character Stephen Lacey editor in chief of the magazine GreenTechMedia said on his podcast The Energy Gang last year.	Gore who since his time as vice president has become an outspoken advocate for the need to counteract the effects of global warming said in a statement that the White House was trying to bury this critical U.S. assessment of the climate crisis by releasing it the day after Thanksgiving.	Unbelievably deadly and tragic wildfires rage in the West hurricanes batter our coasts and the Trump administration chooses the Friday after Thanksgiving to try and bury this critical U.S. assessment of the climate crisis Gore said in a statement that he posted on Twitter Friday.The president may try to hide the truth but his own scientists and experts have made it as stark and clear as possible.	Former Vice President Al Gore accused the Trump administration of trying to bury a damning government report that linked global warming to the worsening of natural disasters by quietly releasing the study on the Friday after Thanksgiving.	True
While the price of carbon is central to prompt mitigation pathways compatible with 1.5 degree Celsius consistent pathways a complementary mix of stringent policies is required reads the IPCCs report.	The report calls for societal changes that are unprecedented in terms of scale in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius the stretch goal of the Paris accord.	The IPCCs report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December.	However the costs of meeting that goal are high based on the IPCCs own figures.	But that point only serves to undermine Curbelos bill which would put a moratorium on some environmental regulations and possibly eliminate some if emissions goals are reached.	True
No.	Were going to have that.	Asked on Saturday whether he thought climate change had a role in the fires he said you have a lot of factors.	Gusts of up to 50mph were threatening efforts to control the Camp blaze which is still only 55 contained 10 days after it brought devastation to northern California.	He said Managing the forest is part of it.	True
These communities need justiceand I will stand with them she added	However Warrens role in crafting a petition to the Supreme Court on behalf of LTV Steel which helped the companys fight against a congressional requirement that it pay millions of dollars into a fund for its retired coal miners health care calls her promise into question.	As Ive traveled this country Ive heard the human stories from frontline communities.	Ruined land and poisoned water Warren tweeted.	Ive fought for years to protect pensions and health benefits for retired coal workers and Ill continue fighting to maintain the solvency of multi employer pension plans she said.	True
Experts say that climate change in the region is exacerbating and sometimes causing a miasma of other problems including crop failures and povertyThe Guardian reported in October.	Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on climate change and the migrant caravan claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence climate change is also playing a part based on an interview with a farmer turned migrant whos crop failed.	Many experts who have seriously examined claims linking climate to violent conflict and mass migrations have found little evidence to support such claims but the media still applied the narrative by linking global warming to Central American migrations.	People from all over the world are being forced to migrate because the climate crisis is affecting their livelihood.	The migrant caravan from Central America is a recent startling example Gore tweeted Monday.	False
But I am concerned to encourage an honest and open debate so that particular interests or ideologies will not prejudice the common good.	On many concrete questions he wrote the Church has no reason to offer a definitive opinion she knows that honest debate must be encouraged among experts while respecting divergent views.	In his 2015 encyclical letter on the environment Francis urging nations and individuals to exercise more responsible stewardship of the created world but insisted that he wanted to encourage debate rather than pronounce on environmental issues.	It is a sin against future generations and is manifested in acts and habits of pollution and destruction of the harmony of the environment in transgressions against the principles of interdependence and in the breaking of networks of solidarity between creatures.	Ecocide is to be understood as the loss damage or destruction of the ecosystems of a given territory so that its utilization by inhabitants has been or can be seen as severely compromised he said adding that such a sin is a fifth category of crimes against peace which should be recognised as such by the international community.	True
But the public relations war over how to address it is heating up as both sides navigate an issue expected to be a top issue in the 2020 election.	As we careen toward irreversible environmental tipping points we have no time to waste debating alternative facts only to invest years more reestablishing trust in the real ones Kerry wrote.	This unaccountable working group appears set to deliberately cherry pick data and science with the sole purpose of pushing back against the widely accepted science around climate change he said at a hearing Tuesday thatfeatured government scientists testifying on the crisis.	Lets have conservatives have a discussion instead of being in denial that this is a problem former Ohio GOP Gov.	John Kasich who ran against Trump in 2016 is expected to say at a speech Tuesday at the University of British Columbia.	True
For Pruitt getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma.	The war on coal is over EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt declared in the coal mining state of Kentucky.	The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obamas legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants.	Appearing at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Pruitt said The EPA and no federal agency should ever use its authority to say to you we are going to declare war on any sector of our economy.	Closely tied to the oil and gas industry in his home state Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man man emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change.	True
When its not personal then you revert to what your team has been saying and the values your team has.	Zinke who declined to be interviewed for this story called the travel controversy a little BS in a public appearance.	As such the agency is often the arbiter between oil gas and mining companies seeking access to valuable resources embedded in public lands and environmentalists seeking to protect the same lands for biodiversity wildlife and recreation.	To make it cheaper for coal companies to strip mine in watersheds and make it more expensive for families to visit Yosemite is a perversion of American values said Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club.	Hes on the Trump team.	True
Communities that could once comfortably live off the land are forced out of the fields and forests and into urban areas where tensions run high and food supplies low.	As a just published report from the intelligence community details climate change is a major military issue acting as a threat multiplier which creates the conditions and food scarcity for example breed instability and conflict.	Extreme weather events made worse by climate change disrupt local communities and weaken the civic institutions that act as a bulwark against terrorists and extremism.	But with a problem as big as climate change and as multifaceted as national security every step is worthwhile.	So while some may say that Obamas environmental rules constituted a War on Coal in reality it was the cheap and plentiful supply of natural gas that put coal out of business.	True
We are left with no other alternatives.	Rural landowners complained about the government regulating how much pollution from chemical fertilizers and pesticides could seep into water on their property.	This is why Alexandria Ocasio Cortez occupied ocasio cortez sunrise activists nancy pelosi Nancy Pelosis office to force support for a Green New Deal.	The protection of our water they figure shouldnt interfere with business.	As climate change accelerates and the planet hurdles ever closer to an existential crisis Trump went to a United Nations conference to tout the benefits katowice climate talks cop24.html of fossil fuels.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	He also claimed that many scientists would debate the percentage of what is attributable to man versus normal fluctuations.	Its as simple as that.	No matter what the answer is most or all of it.	Rubio said that while scientists agree that human behavior is contributing to climate change Icant tell you what percentage of that is due to human activity.	True
Youth Climate Strike and 18 year old activist Jamie Margolin.	But the starkest contrast on the issue is between the two progressive contenders and their moderate rivals former Vice President Joe Biden and Buttigieg.	There is no dealing with climate change unless we deal with corruption Gunn Wright said in a video set to be released Thursday afternoon.	2 concern after health care for Iowa caucusgoers in a Monmouth University survey from April.	Climate was the No.	False
There is no other option than victory because without victory there is not survival Inslee said at a press conference Monday.	Washington Democratic Gov.	Now Inslees back with an even more urgent message Adopt policies to tackle global warming or there is not survival.	Washingtonians are ready to see their elected leaders step up to prevent further harm to our forests our air and our communities.	However Inslees critics point out that state green policies have raised energy prices including in Seattle where electricity prices have doubled since 2013.	True
The following excerpt of their interview has been edited for length and clarity.	We know thats going to continue.	And that has to be a key component of all strategies.	Should they just get out?	Radley Horton There are many components to these storms.	True
Plans to dump coal ash in Southern states have been particularly contentious.	It also caused the community to become infested with flies the complaint states.	In Parrish townspeople are considering rescheduling childrens softball games or playing at fields in other communities to escape the stink.	In South Carolina a plan to store radioactive nuclear waste in a rural area prompted complaints that the state was being turned into a nuclear dump.	Brookes Black Warrior Riverkeeper group last year opposed continued permits for the Big Sky landfill.	True
Spokesman Saviano Abreu added that the situation in the northern towns of Macomia and Quissanga was critical while there were also worries for the cut off island of Ibo.	It's raining again and the second flight couldn't go.	As a result flights have been grounded hindering the aid effort.	Thousands of people had already fled their homes to seek shelter from violence in camps for displaced people.	But attempts to reach those areas had not been entirely successful.	True
Here's the issue Pruitt told CNN in a phone interview.	... Those are things so important to citizens of Florida right now and to discuss the cause and effect of these storms there's the... place and time to do that it's not now.	To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced.	All I'm saying to you is to use time and effort to address it at this point is very very insensitive to this people in Florida.	And with all respect really that's where I have to focus on.	True
On windmills.	Im an environmentalist.	During the climate meeting leaders approved a 20 million aid package to help Brazil and other South American countries address fires engulfing the Amazon rainforest French President Emmanuel Macron Emmanuel Jean Michel MacronTrump says he's 'an environmentalist' after skipping G 7 climate meeting Trump says he'd meet with Iranians under 'right' circumstances Macron US France reached 'very good agreement' on digital tax MORE said.	At a closing press conference before departing the summit Trump was asked whether he still harbors skepticism about climate change.	And thats what were getting.	True
They submitted their concerns to theU.S.	However not every ecologically minded group is on board with Icebreaker the name of the project.	Conservation groups are protesting efforts to build a small offshore wind farm off the coast of Lake Erie arguing that the project poses a grave risk to the local bird population.	This is far from the first time bird advocates have lamented over wind turbines.	The Black Swamp Bird Observatory and the American Bird Conservancy two different bird conservation groups are opposed to the proposal claiming the turbines would harm the local bird population and that major errors were made during an environmental assessment.	True
Roxanne Quimby co founder of Burts Bees cosmetics and her foundation purchased tracts of land in the northern reaches of Maine with the purpose of creating a national park.	Environmental groups have vowed legal action to stymie any alterations to the protected areas.	A huge monument spanning nearly 500000 acres and proclaimed in May 2014.	When this plan was opposed by various state and federal politicians Obama stepped in to create a 87000 acre national monument dominated by mountains and lush forests.	The area was protected to safeguard an ecosystem of deep sea corals three species of whale and an endangered species of sea turtle the Kemps ridley.	True
Such research requires a faithful reproduction of events and predictions of the future constrained by subjective choices within computer models.	How to put these two hurricanes into proper context?	By focusing on whether climate change caused a hurricane journalists fail to appreciate the complexity of extreme weather events.	Even as we worked to divine exactly where the hurricanes would land a media narrative began to form linking the devastating storms to climate change.	As soon as Hurricanes Harvey and Irma made landfall in the U.S. scientists politicians and journalists began to discuss the role of climate change in natural disasters.	True
Republicans and farmers have complained about management of the smelt population for years because precious water was being pumped out to sea instead of going towards other uses including agriculture.	California Gov.	Hes likely referring to the diverting of water from the Sacramento San Joaquin River Delta into the ocean to protect the delta smelt an endangered fish.	Trump also lambasted policies forcing river water to be diverted during the 2016 campaign.	RELATED NYT Claims Global Greening From CO2 Is Terrible Gets Owned State officials said the Carr Fire was sparked in late July by a flat tire on a trailer scraping against the asphalt on a road near Redding California.	False
Though similar to last weeks March for Science the march on Saturday will focus on Trumps efforts to remove regulations intended to protect the environment and curb climate change rather than scientific integrity.	As expected the response to Trumps executive order from the environmental community was swift and harsh.	Trumps signing of the America First Offshore Energy Strategy comes a day before the Peoples Climate March an international protest against Trumps energy and environmental policies.	The people have been heard and will continue to be heard Brune said.	This deprives our country of potentially thousands and thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in wealth.	True
Theyve said the same thing before Sen. Marco Rubio R Fla. said adding that his responsibility was to balance those interests raised in that report with his states broader economic and security interests.	Theres not enough money in the world to pay for that Kennedy said.	Thats the main thing about getting to the emmissions goal is just how aggressively we have to act in every different sector of our society.	Thats the problem with the U.N. that they come up with these policy ideas that are just La La Land.	How is that new?	True
And the activity of this range could have worrying consequences they have warned.	It is something we will have to watch closely Bingham said.	However he pointed to one alarming trend The most volcanism that is going in the world at present is in regions that have only recently lost their glacier covering after the end of the last ice age.	Essentially we were looking for evidence of volcanic cones sticking up into the ice Bingham said.	But how many lie below the ice?	True
The greatest threat we face which will test our country our democracy every single one of us is climate change ORourke said in a statement.	ORourke the former Texas congressman made climate change the focus of his first major policy announcement unveiling the plan ahead of a campaign stop meeting with scientists at the iconic Yosemite National Park in California.	Beto claims to support the Green New Deal but his plan is out of line with the timeline it lays out and the scale of action that scientists say is necessary to take here in the United States to give our generation a livable future said Sunrise founder Varshini Prakash.	Still the upstart Sunrise Movement the youth led group that has pushed the Green New Deal into the spotlight said ORourkes plan fell short of what they said scientists said was necessary to fend off the worst impacts of climate change.	ORourkes measures include U.S. re entry into the Paris Climate Agreement ordering a reduction in methane emissions from oil and gas operations halting new drilling leases on federal land and restoring pollution standards for power plants.	True
This summer in the midst of unprecedented chaos and dysfunction in Washington California lawmakers stepped up with a bipartisan solution to one of the most pressing challenges facing our state this nation and the world.	In fact the challenge before us is a case study in market failures to suggest that market based policies on their own will solve this existential challenge is nave at best.	Cap and trade is an important tool in Californias climate policy portfolio.	It sends a price signal to industries to reduce their carbon pollution while generating billions of dollars in revenue for investments in clean transportation and direct pollution reduction.	However its hardly the only weapon in our climate arsenal and California simply cannot meet our world leading greenhouse gas reduction goals with cap and trade alone.	True
Bill Nye took on Republican Rep. Thomas Massey who claims to be an electrical engineer but he doesnt understand climate change.	For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	This would be dT dt where capital T is temperature and and the lower case is time or congressmans staff if out there thats the problem.	The temperature is rising quickly.	I presume you dont watch MSNBCA member of his staff might.	False
With Congress deadlocked and President Donald Trump pulling the United States out of the Paris climate agreement Virginias election also highlights how the biggest opportunities to curb greenhouse gases are occurring at the state level.	Ralph Northam to fulfill his long thwarted ambition of bringing Virginia into the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative RGGI a compact among nine East Coast states to cap and trade greenhouse gas emissions credits.	Its part of a national campaign from environmental activists to push public officials to say no to money from the coal oil and natural gas industries.	Young Virginia voters said climate change was a top tier concern.	So climate change is likely to remain a key campaign issue for Democrats in the coming elections.	True
Why the push abroad?	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	It provides Chinese firms and investors with opportunities to make money off coal projects at a time when thats less politically popular in China.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	The country reaffirmed its commitment to its Paris commitments after U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order rolling back global warming regulations in late March.	False
In his Spanish language address to the U.N. agency Francis denounced negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet and the greed for profit.	Ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the prerequisites for dealing with world food security Francis also said.	At the time a Vatican official said the move was a slap in the face for the pope and the Vatican.	Thanks to scientific knowledge we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods such as the Paris Accord which sadly some have abandoned he said.	Many world leaders have criticized Trump for deciding to pull out.	True
Climate change was the biggest issue at the biennial meeting of the Arctic Council in Fairbanks which was overshadowed by the uncertainties over Mr Trump's policy.	They signed an agreement which stated there was a need for urgent global action.	We're going to work to make the right decision for the United States.	The thrust of the text argues Prof John Walsh chief scientist at the University of Alaska's International Arctic Research Center actually echoes the approach of the Obama administration.	We are appreciative that each of you has an important point of view and you should know that we are taking the time to understand your concerns he said.	False
The decision prompted sharp criticism from former EPA administrators.	Undoing the rule threatens to upend that uniformity.	Carol Browner who served as the agencys chief from 1993 to 2001 said Pruitt was wrong to cast California as wielding outsize influence over the regulations.	Cooperative federalism doesnt mean that one state can dictate standards for the rest of the country Pruitt said.	The decision to rewrite the rule puts the EPA at loggerheads with California regulators who agreed in 2011 as part of the rule to align their tailpipe emissions standards with the national levels.	True
The intrigue comes amid growing bad blood between the two sides.	A dispute arose between Pawa and Sher in 2012 relating to the division of attorneys fees between them under a contract with New Hampshire which retained both to represent the state in the Exxon contamination case.	Two of the attorneys representing various cities in climate litigation against oil companies have a history of suing and counter suing each other over personal squabbles according to documents obtained by The Daily Caller News Foundation.	The rivalry between the two attorneys heated up Nov. 26 after San Francisco and Oaklandfired Hagens Bermanand hired Sher Edling to represent the cities as they appeal a courts decision to dismiss their lawsuits against Exxon.	Environmental attorneys Vic Sher and Matt Pawa got intoa multi million dollar legal dispute in 2014 stemming from a lawsuit they both worked on against ExxonMobil.	True
I would not call it the greatest crisis no he said.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Gaetzsaid at the press conference that he doesn't think the EPA has done a good job of combating climate change and said he wants to shift the debate among Republicans from focusing on theexistence of climate change to how to combat it.	In an indication of likely conservative opposition to Gaetz'splan advocacy group FreedomWorks issued a statement calling it a sad example of Republicans thinking theyre conservatives by being slightly to the right of far left.	he said.	The proposalincludes a host of costly and controversial big government programs including a push for net zero greenhouse gas emissions universal health care andjob guarantee programs.	False
However there are still many obstacles facing the team.	Children are powerful drivers of change because they go home and talk to their parents about it says Zana Kontamanoli.	Another sticking point has been convincing bakeries and pharmacies to stop using plastic bags.	Paros was chosen because its changes in population give it complexity and because she found out when she visited the island that people were already working on the issue.	And while many residents are enthusiastic about the project there are still some that need convincing.	True
The leading candidates are rising atmospheric CO2 levels a result of emissions from human activities longer growing seasons a result of climate change caused by CO2 emissions and nitrogen pollution another result of fossil fuel combustion and agriculture the article also claims.	He says despite the researchers findings which clearly show global warming helps plantsand thus also helping humans and animalsglobal warming has many negative effects too such as causing climate change which will increase flooding of coastal cities extreme weather and ocean acidification.	Campbell said the evidence shows a fundamental shift in the Earths plants and that global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race.	However dont too excited Campbell warns.	Photosynthesis is the process of converting carbon dioxide into carbohydrates which power plants using sunlight.	True
Your daily wrap up for the day in news.	This story is part of a group of stories called Vox Sentences is your daily digest for whats happening in the world.	YouTube Christina Thornell and Mac Schneider How a denial of tenure at Harvard became a national controversy Healthcare.gov glitches almost ruined the end of open enrollment.	Financial Times Were in a very politically difficult time right now where weve got one key world leader denying climate change so its very hard to get other countries to move forward when youve got such a critical country playing a spoiling role said Ian Fry a delegate from Tuvalu.	AP News Frank Jordans and Aritz Parra While the negotiations were meant to shore up the Paris agreement and define the terms on which the signatory countries would reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.	True
Well this is the end result of that decision.	They were afraid that it would end up hurting whichever candidate goes into the general election next year.	We told you last week that the DNC refused to allow their 2020 Democratic candidates to debate the issue of Climate Change.	CNN has announced one massive town hall on Climate Change not massive in crowd size but massive in the amount of time it will take CNN on Tuesday announced the candidate lineup for its unprecedented prime time event focused on the climate crisis.	Here are the details of this marathon non debate town hall Id rather fall into a 40000 foot deep man made hole in Russia than watch Democrats tell us how were all going to die in 12 years if we dont get rid of fossil fuels.	True
His decision follows a ruling the judge made in June dismissing both cases on the grounds that Congress not the court system is responsible for addressing the emission of greenhouse gasses.	Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants alleged California activities to plaintiffs harm.	They argue that Exxon and others should pony up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change.	From all that appears in the amended complaints howeverthis worldwide chain of events Exxons oil production does not depend on a particular defendants contacts with California he said.	Whatever sales or events occurred in California werecausally insignificantin the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming.	True
And it flagged the way climate change will create new security challenges in the Arctic where melting ice means greater access but also greater international competition for the waterways.	Lawmakers pointing to President Donald Trump's skepticism about climate change and his administration's steady rollback of measures meant to mitigate the impacts of global warming were scathing.	Pentagon spokesman Lt. Col. Mike Andrews said the effects of a changing climate are a national security issue with potential impacts to DOD missions operational plans and installations.	The report also raised very briefly the logistical challenge weather conditions can create for intelligence collection surveillance and reconnaissance as well as recovery and casualty evacuation.	The Pentagon did not answer multiple questions from CNN including why it failed to meet Congress' request to list the 10 most vulnerable installations why it mentioned no military installations outside the US or why the climate factors it considered did not include extreme weather and why Camp Lejeune isn't listed among the 79 installations.	True
The 2015 order led environmentalists to complain that the state which leads the nation in production of fruits and vegetables did too little to force farmers to conserve water.	Conservation must remain a way of life.	Brown also said the need for conservation continued.	For their part farmers said they received far less water than promised by state and federal authorities.	The drought cost the agricultural economy billions killed an estimated 100 million trees led a half million acres of farmland to be fallowed and deprived some communities of reliable sources of drinking water.	True
The report is not without its controversies.	We think that this is the most extreme version and its not based on facts she said.	University of Colorado Prof. Roger Pielke Jr. for instance criticized the researchers in a series of tweets Saturday for basing their modeling on a data that are likely to change dramatically over the course of the next 80 years.	He has criticized the medias handling of similar reports.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	True
This is just one more foolhardy move by a misguided administration that will be judged harshly by future generations said David Doniger senior strategic director of the Climate Clean Energy program at the Natural Resources Defense Council.	Today's proposal is nothing more than another thoughtless attempt by the Trump Administration to prop up their backwards and false narrative about reviving coal at the expense of science public safety and reality said Mary Anne Hitt senior director of Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign.	They blasted the EPA's announcement.	Environmental groups argue that in order to reduce climate change risks the world will have to stop burning coal.	This is the latest in a series of efforts the Trump administration has taken to help the coal business.	True
And now of course it's coal's inability to compete with natural gas on price for power generation.	The meeting was postponed indefinitely and with key Trump advisers divided over the issue it is still uncertain what Trump will finally do about the accord.	This week President Donald Trump was to meet with senior administration officials to discuss the deal and whether the United States should withdraw from it.	But advocates of greater federal regulations to address climate change are already expressing dismay about the administration's stance.	Adam Koniuszewski project leader of the Gorbachev Climate Change Task Force a think tank that focuses on global challenges posed by climate change agreed with Whitman.	True
He has been outspoken in favor of gun control and after the shooting in Parkland Fla. last year he confronted President Trump on live television denouncing Mr. Trumps suggestion to arm schoolteachers.	His advocacy on the issue goes back many years he lost his seat in Congress after voting for the 1994 assault weapons ban.	Mr. Inslee also tried unsuccessfully last year to get the Washington Legislature to vote on a carbon tax which would have been the first in the nation voters rejected the proposal in November.	While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels Washington had the highest G.D.P.	growth in the nation in 2018 according to the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis.	True
The fact that societies practising 'pastoralism' persisted in this region for so long and invested both economically and ideologically in the local landscape does not support the scenario of over exploitation.	We contest the common narrative that past human environment interactions must always be one of over exploitation and degradation.	Previous studies have put the blame for the collapse of the 'Green Sahara' onto these nomads who have often been marginalised in history but this latest studies dispels that myth.	Dr. Chris Brierley UCL Geography lead author said The possibility that humans could have had a stabilising influence on the environment has significant implications.	The spread of domestic animals across the Sahara occurred at a time of increasing climatic instability and yet these pastoralist populations thrived.	True
When pie in the sky thinking meets end of times conspiracy theories we get something like this.	A scenario where were all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed.	Still Ocasio Cortez believes that if this plan gets put into action itll solve every problem under the sun including racism and bigotry.	The cost of this ten year plan?7 trillion.	All we have to do is give up our common sense.	True
Kalmus who has written a book on his experiences said meeting critical goals to avert disaster will require a rapid cultural transformation and acts of individual defiance help achieve that.	Eventually it dawned on me that I should maybe bring my actions into alignment with my beliefs.	Some people like Tarek Maassarani take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes.	I was shaking people by the lapels posting screeds on Facebook not really getting anywhere he told AFP in an interview from his home in a Los Angeles suburb.	But how impactful can individual action be in the absence of systemic changes from the top?	False
Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a not for profit group promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency especially when it comes to climate changing carbon emissions.	The Washington Post reported in September that Konkus had been scrutinising grant applications for mentions of climate change which he reportedly calls the double C word.	Its not clear from the email however who initiated the attempt to rally conservatives for the public hearing.	Lakely the Heartland spokesman responded that he had shared the article with colleagues asking them to jump to your aide sic and defend this position.	True
We have been held hostage by these environmental terrorist groups that have not allowed public access that have refused to allow the harvest of timber Zinke told Breitbart Monday.	I've heard the climate change argument back and forth.	However Zinke also reiterated an argument that he made earlier this week blaming environmental groups for preventing dead trees from being cleared due to their opposition to the logging industry.	Earlier this week Zinke blamed environmental terrorist groups for California's destructive wildfires in an interview with Breitbart Radio.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	False
At this time while we do not believe there is any imminent danger the potential for a chemical reaction leading to a fire andor explosion within the site confines is real Arkema said in a statement.	The unit was stabilized.	Excess emissions occurred during an upset on the Sulfur Plant Thermal Oxidizer Exxon said in the report.	In this case it caused product to spill to the ground.	It added it was taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment.	True
I select my piece.	I ask.	There's a Caribbean delegation of fishers researchers and marine biologists here to pool ideas on how to fight their worst invasive species the lionfish.	No salt?	The sea is full of them and it's a big problem for biodiversity says Silvio Greco describing jellyfish as rampant opportunistic species that immediately take over any empty space in the water.	True
Lets be clear about what is at issue here.	History provides precedents of how the boundless zealotry of new wrecking crews ultimately leads to self inflicted wounds and scandals.	He is also hostile to the precautionary principle which shifts the burden of proof to the progenitors of new chemical or particulate or gas into the environment.	This fulminating vendetta widely reported has led to millions of taxpayers waiting on the phone with the IRS to get served or not be served at all.	Mr. Pruitt makes himself vulnerable with all the ex parte contacts and corporate advisors to many serious offenses including a violation of the procedures of the Federal Advisory Committee Act b conflict of interest rules c violation of both criminal and civil laws by the overreaching industry lobbyists who constitute Pruitts tight cadre of clenched jawed political appointees.	True
So whats the problem?	The comparison reveals two fundamental issues with the suits.	Presumably this will soon be a cause clbre.	Second a key allegation against cigarette companies was that they hid and denied the harms of smoking but the parallel allegations against the energy companies are contradictory.	Local lawsuits also struggle to address the global scope of the climate change problem.	True
Another problem which compounds the first is that they get greedy.	The reasons this is a political problem for climate change warriors should be obvious.	First they are their own worst enemy when it comes to maintaining credibility.	Instead they harangued McConnell for pulling a stunt.	They might also think they missed a crucial plot point if the protagonists proposed a sweeping government effort to stop the meteor and then when given the opportunity to vote for it voted present in protest.	True
However Morris argued that the department had not given areasoned explanation for how it came to this conclusion.	In a 54 page decision Judge Brian Morris of the U.S. District Court in Montana granted an injunction to the Indigenous Environmental Network and Northern Plains Resource Council against the U.S. State Department the TransCanada Keystone Pipeline and the TransCanada Corporation.	Morris had ruled in August that the State Department had to reach a conclusion on the environmental impacts of the pipeline but determined Thursday that the departments analysis had left out information he considered to be crucial.He also accused the State Department of usingoutdated information about potential environmental impacts instead ofthe best scientific and commercial data available.	In November 2015 former President Barack Obamas administration blocked the pipelines construction citing potential environmental impact.	TransCanada is blocked from engaging in any activity in furtherance of the construction or operation of Keystone and associated facilities until the State Department can confirm that doing so would not violate the Administrative Procedure Act or the National Environmental Policy Act.	True
Climate Change.'	It also claims it has soured the atmosphere and damaged goodwill in the international arena.	'Our greatest threat in thousands of years.	A statement from the former chiefs came a day before the summit was scheduled to begin and is a highly unusual move.	Antonio Guterres UN Secretary General said this period of time is'a matter of life and death' for countries around the world.	True
Ignore distort or censor.	Unacceptable and immoral.	The reports lead researcher had earlier accused the Trump administration of attempting to censor the study by removing all mentions of human caused climate change.	We need a vision and a plan to not willful ignorance.	Those are the options the Trump White House is considering to deal with the overwhelming consensus on climate change.	True
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	SteveGorehamis a speaker on the environment business and public policy and author of thebookOutside the Green Box Rethinking Sustainable Development.	In January he blocked Trump Administration efforts to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals DACA program.	But John F. Keenan District Court judge for the Southern District of New York disagreed and dismissed the complaint.	Judge Keenanruledthat it would thus be illogical to allow the City to bring state law claims when courts have found that these matters are areas of federal concern that have been delegated to the Executive Branch as they require a uniform national solutionGlobal warming and solutions thereto must be addressed by the other two branches of government.	True
The US and the three other nations sided against welcoming the measure.	Zinke's position involves the dual and sometimes competing roles of overseeing leases to develop resources such as oil natural gas and minerals and preserving federal lands for wildlife and human recreational uses.	Sides with Russia Saudi Arabia and Kuwait at climate conference Considering Trump announced the US would walk away from the Paris climate agreement which brought together the rest of the world it's no surprise the US continues to be an outlier on the international stage.	Washington CNN Since the Trump administration released its blockbuster report on the day after Thanksgiving outlining the dire environmental and economic impacts of climate change it has made a series of policy and diplomatic decisions or statements that appear to run counter to all of the warnings in the report.	A clause in a communique signed by the member nations says the US reiterates its decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and affirms its strong commitment to economic growth and energy access and security utilizing all energy sources and technologies while protecting the environment.	True
Environmentalist groups have reacted with outrage and the Center for Biological Diversity said these proposals would slam a wrecking ball into the most crucial protections for our most endangered wildlife.	Environmentalists fear the new language will make it possible for government biologists to disregard the long term effects of climate change on the environment.	Wolves which were re introduced in the lower 48 states have faced criticism from ranchers and farmers who argue that they have impacted their livelihood by killing their livestock.	The US government says they want the language clarified to make it clear that it extends only as far as wildlife officials can reasonably determine that both the future threats and the species' response to those threats are probable.	If we made those decisions you can see under different administrations we would end up protecting nothing.	True
Another wrote 'Interesting how a leader that acts like a child is yelling at a child who acts like a leader'.	during the UN General Assembly this year.	Her angry accusations that world leaders are failing the younger generation have made headlines including her shouts of 'How dare you?'	'Greta must work on her Anger Management problem then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend!	The 16 year old who was named Time magazine's 'Person of The Year' updated her Twitter bio on Thursday to read 'A teenager working on her anger management problem.	False
The Trump administration has been picking fights with California over environmental regulations recently.	The Trump administration has escalated its fight with California over environmental regulations.	Gavin Newsom has been critical of President Trump's environmental record and challenged the administration in court.	Gov.	This letter is a threat of pure retaliation Newsom says.	True
RELATED Keep It In The Ground Activists Stormed Trump Administrations Event At UN Meeting Activists will instead focus on other causes near and dear to the environmental movement such as pushing energy standards that mandate a total transition to clean and renewable energy.	The price hikes however triggered a wave of intense riots.	The protests which have lasted for weeks have even become deadly.	One man was caught on video over the weekend losing his hand to a grenade explosion.	While many have expressed dissolution over the prospect of a carbon tax future other green activists plan to keep charging forward with their own proposals.	True
It will without doubt have come to your Lordships knowledge that a considerable change of climate inexplicable at present to us must have taken place in the Circumpolar Regions by which the severity of the cold that has for centuries past enclosed the seas in the high northern latitudes in an impenetrable barrier of ice has been during the last two years greatly abated.	Proponents of the theory humans are primarily responsible for rising global temperatures long claimed wildlife are harmed significantly by global warming and that unless mankind stops producing significant amounts of carbon dioxide emissions the worlds animals will not be able to thrive.	USA Today recently declared the loss of sea ice terrifying but global warming skeptics have long suggested these claims are overblown when put into perspective.	Climate change is accompanies by more storms and more precipitation and we must expect that more nutrients will be released from the surroundings into the melt ponds said Professor Ronnie Glud of the Department of Biology at SDU.	This is the conclusion of researchers in the periodical Polar Biology the press release said.	True
It's an adventure.	The damage it's causing to monuments and the people is worrying she said wondering if climate change was to blame.	A massive infrastructure project called MOSE has been under way since 2003 to protect the city but it has been plagued by cost overruns corruption scandals and delays.	But for the people who live here it's a real problem Litschauer said cradling her white Chihuahua Pablo.	We need to be resilient and adapt.	True
And to me the answer is innovation.	Sometimes the pot calls the kettle black.	But to scientists Koch remains a climate pariah who has learned how to temper his message for audiences who dont buy into the view that industry players are somehow more credible than impartial researchers.	So the forces of denial the special interests the polluting interests have instead turned to a new talking point that they think they might be able to get away with.	But the question is What do we do about it about whatever risk there is?	True
Climate change is our reality and youth activists like Greta are doing everything within their power to work against it and demand a change Gonzlez wrote.	Erosion of fertile topsoil deforestation of the rainforest toxic air pollution loss of insects and wildlife acidification of our oceans these are all disastrous trends said Thunberg barely able to keep her tears back.	Thousands of students in Europe and the U.S. ditched school to demand government action on climate change in February.	Thunberg who says she has Asperger syndrome gained prominence for ditching school every Friday to protest outside Swedish parliament.	American student activists led by the daughter of Democratic Minnesota Rep. Ilhan Omar demanded a Green New Deal the legislation sponsored by New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez.	True
It's a move that sounds like an attitude of deference and separation of power Buzbee said.	Writing for a divided panel he found that this good neighbor rule overstepped the EPA's authority.	The Supreme Court overruled Kavanaugh.	The Cuyahoga River Love Canal when there was no environmental protection.	Environmental groups were not going to be happy with anyone President Donald Trump picked for the Supreme Court.	False
Pielke pointed out this inconvenient data.	The New York Times highlighted the IPCCs warning of a world of worsening food shortages and wildfires and a mass die off of coral reefs as soon as 2040.	For example The Washington Posts write up of the IPCCs report focused on the mainline findings namely that the world is woefully off target to keep future global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel On Climate Changes IPCC newly released climate report once again found little to no evidence global warming caused many types of extreme weather events to increase.	RELATED Its The Final Chance We Have To Stop Global Warming Until The Next Chance When it comes to droughts for example the IPCC admits there is low confidence in the sign of drought trends since 1950 at global scale.	True
Climate change population growth and growing demand for food energy and fresh water will incite violent conflict over diminishing resources by the year 2030 the document also forecasts with remarkable confidence.	Climate change has been linked to the Syrian War the rise of Boko Haram in Nigeria as well as the famines water shortages and resulting conflict in Yemen Somalia and South Sudan the document pronounces.	Not content with prescribing a drastic cutback in global emissions however the Council members forge onward to make a more insidious proposal population control.	Despite the Councils dire warnings however it turns out that scientists themselves are far less certain that Berkeleys elite council members.	The City of Berkeley calls on the United States of America to initiate a just national mobilization emergency effort to reverse global warming which ends national greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible and immediately initiates an effort to safely draw down carbon from the atmosphere the text boldly proposes.	True
Words do not suffice in a tragedy like this.	Instead the Republican strategy has consisted of aggressive denial of the facts coupled with staunch obstruction of any serious action to address the problem.	But they disregard some of its most important teachings when formulating policy.	This is a time for action action to care for our fellow citizens in the face of disaster and action to prevent a systemic worsening of the climate crisis by heeding the warning and doing what is right.	As I write Hurricane Irma a terrifying superstorm with the highest wind speeds ever recorded in the Atlantic is cutting a destructive path through the Caribbean.	True
Even those politicians who might nurture doubts in private almost never express them in public.	When the wind doesnt blow and the sun doesnt shine the power doesnt flow.	Abbotts speech which is causing Australias notoriously left wing media to explode like ripe watermelons struck by hollow point bullets ought to serve as a painful reminder to Australias Liberal party of the talent they lost when they decided to knife this Jesuit trained Oxford educated rock solid family man conservative in the back and replace him with the slippery Davos style globalist Turnbull.	Here are some of the highlights Climate change is a product of ignorance and an anti Christian society If science was all about consensus wed still be living in caves Greens want to make life nasty brutish and short Wheres the evidence for climate catastrophe?	Abbott is one of only a handful of world leaders to have spoken out against the global warming consensus.	True
The church leaders slammed Daines for having the audacity to challenge the overwhelming scientific consensus that emissions from farms and burning fossil fuels are trapping heat in the atmosphere and causing the planet to warm.	inan op edpublished by the Missoulian Thursday for failing to understand climate changes role in a widespread fish kill in Yellowstone National Park last summer.	We cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment said the church leaders the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co Cathedral.	The one Catholic priest and three Protestant clergy criticized Sen. Steve Daines R Mont.	The simple moral truth is that United States is by far the worlds largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it they added.	False
I was fighting back against corporate greed and this constant disregard for public health.	That promise falls short of what Ocasio Cortez Tlaib and the Sunrise Movement protesters seeknamely the creation of a so called Green New Dealbut the attention has started a conversation between the new members and their partys longtime leader.	The night before Tlaib and Representative elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez N.Y.who made headlines today by joining the protesters at Pelosis officehad stopped by St. Stephens church to meet with the activists on the eve of the demonstration.	I wanted to come and help.	Climate change has been a key issue for both Tlaib and Ocasio Cortez.	True
Like this story?	The candidate complained the fuss over his plagiarism was much ado about nothing and blamed rival campaigns for blowing the issue out of proportion.	Biden's campaign waited the better part of a day to address the charges as the news spread buoyed by anger at the candidate over news he'd lied about marching in the civil rights movement finally telling Business Insider that while they had inadvertently left out several citations from the final version of the document posted to the website it had been updated to include references.	Caught in a pile of lies the campaign responded with a strikingly similar excuse To the degree it wasn't attributed it was an oversight or inadvertent Biden's 1988 campaign aide told the New York Times.	Compounding the gaffe the Carbon Capture Coalition's membership includes the country's largest fossil fuel companies not such strange bedfellows for Biden who received a D grade from Greenpeace last week largely due to his lack of environmental policy but less than ideal for a candidate trying to reinvent himself as green.	False
The Trump administration has yet to realize that the war on coal was never led by Washingtonand Washington cannot end it Bloomberg said in the press release.	Together we have worked with local grassroots activists and partners in the nations most vulnerable communities to secure the retirement of 259 dirty power plants and the promise of a brighter future putting at the center of our work a transition that leaves no one behind and that demands good paying family sustaining jobs for workers who depended on the fossil fuel economy Brune said.	All of this and were just getting started.	Our movement is growing and our momentum is unstoppable.	It was started and continues to be led by communities in both red and blue states who are tired of having their air and water poisoned when there are cleaner and cheaper alternatives available cities and states that are determined to clean their air and reduce their costs and businesses seeking to lower their energy bills while also doing their part for the climate.	True
Its not based on facts.	He moved to lay blame on forest management policies during the visit instead even suggesting that raking would help stop the scourge of wildfires claims he appeared to repeat in his interview with the Post on Tuesday.	The fire in California where I was if you looked at the floor the floor of the fire they have trees that were fallen they did no forest management no forest maintenance and you can light you can take a match like this and light a tree trunk when that thing is laying there for more than 14 or 15 months Trump said.	White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Tuesday that the recent National Climate Assessment was not based on facts.	The president has stayed firm on his anti climate rhetoric in recent days even after the devastating Camp fire in Northern California left at least 88 people dead.	False
It was a basic question asking if the lines followed each other.	Wehrum tried to sleazily worm his way out of answering the simple question.	With what basically amounts to a humanitarian crisis going on in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria it cannot be ignored any longer.	You can watch a video of the hearing below.	They refuse to see it accept being ignorant and continue their refusal to acknowledge that climate change is real and it will have and already has had devastating effects on the planet.	True
Claim 4 When I first met you you were running for president the Department of Energy was one of the federal agencies that you thought was maybe extraneous said Cannon.	Here are four checks on claims from the interview.	Energy Secretary Rick Perry attended a March 29 event about the state of U.S. energy where he discussed his thoughts on energy policy with Carl Cannon the Washington bureau chief of RealClearPolitics.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	During one presidential debate he said that he would abolish three federal agencies if elected naming the Commerce and Education Departments but infamously forgetting the third.	True
I think something's happening.	Something's changing and it'll change back again he said.	Speaking at a Red Cross center in Georgia where he was touring areas devastated by last weeks Hurricane Michael Trump said there is something there in response to a question on climate change from a reporter.	I think there's probably a difference.	I will say this I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars.	True
Progressives across the country and around the world expressed outrage this week over Trumps decision to withdraw from the agreement.	Leonardo DiCaprio says Trumps move threatens the livability of our planet and yet DiCaprio flew a private jet 4000 miles from Cannes France to New York to accept a climate award and then flew back privately Carlson went on to explain.	You can tell by the outraged looks on their faces and the purple rhetoric Carlson said.	They examined the lives of billionaire businessmen Richard Branson Elon Musk and Bill Gates in addition to Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Hillary Clinton.	Elon Musk meanwhile is mad about global warming too.	True
The conclusion?	And it found that these are only sustainable options if you use them very frequently.	Not necessarily.	Making a cotton shopping bag is hardly cost free.	And on that score paper bags fare worse.	True
The unusual arrangement has attracted attention in Washington where Pruitt has been under increasing scrutiny for this frequent taxpayer funded travel which has included first class airline tickets.	Ill only pay for nights I use it but need it held vacant all other nights wrote Shaub who has become a frequent critic of what he sees as ethical lapses in the Trump administration.	Also left unanswered was how Pruitt came to rent a property tied to a lobbyist with business interests involving his agency.	Walter Shaub who ran the U.S. Office of Government Ethics until last year rated EPAs legal justification of Pruitts living arrangements as Total Baloney.	Copies of Pruitts daily calendar obtained by the AP through a public records request show that Pruitt meet in his EPA office with two top OGE executives and a registered lobbyist from Harts firm in March 2017 when he was living at the condo.	True
What's the latest on the ground?	RFS founder and former commissioner Phil Koperberg told the Sydney Morning Herald People are nervous and they have a right to be... the worst is yet to come.	The severity of the blazes so early in the fire season has caused alarm and prompted calls for greater action to tackle climate change.	What could be wiped out by temperature rise Hundreds of bushfire survivors and farmers converged on the nation's capital Canberra this week in protest.	A mega blaze raging across a 60km 37 mile front north of the Australian city of Sydney cannot currently be put out fire officials have warned.	True
It is a violation of the stewardship mandate motivated only by politics.	This story was originally published bytheGuardian.	There was enormous political pressure to reopen the parks culminating in a Republican House joint hearing where I as the NPS director was grilled for five hours over the decision to close the parks during the shutdown.	While the majority of the public will be respectful there will always be a few who take advantage of the opportunity to do lasting damage.	This time surely to avoid the public outcry theTrump administration decided to keep the national parks open while still furloughing the majority of the NPS staff.	False
No bloom no harvest.	Both trends increase the chances that from time to time farmers will face catastrophic shortages of water.	5 Major Crops In The Crosshairs Of Climate Change Climate change is coming like a freight train or a rising tide.	If they don't experience enough chill during wintertime they get confused and don't bloom properly.	They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes most of them bad for growing corn.	True
What risks do protesters take?	Lecuyer stresses that non violence is part of our action consensus it is forbidden to harm the security forces site employees or to damage the equipment.	Lecuyer says that some activists experience a form of trauma ... due to the high emotions from stress and excitement and the physical effort because you have to walk for miles in groups to the target pass police roadblocks sometimes under water cannon or pepper spray and then hold the blockade.	Azna Lecuyer of the French branch of Ende Gelaende agrees that we feel a passion for actions of civil disobedience especially among young people.	Tadzio Mueller a German organiser of the movement argues that massively breaking the rules ... is the only thing that works to prevent the status quo in the face of climate chaos.	True
Published with permission of The American Independent.	Now those officials are preparing to discard sound scientific methods to pretend that their actions will be less deadly than they really are.	Trump wants to toss out the Obama era rules with ones that allow older coal plants to stay in business longer and continue risking lives by spewing particulates into the air.	Trump's ultimate goal is to roll back improvements President Obama made that limit the pollution coal plants produce.	Using an approach described by experts as not scientifically sound the Trump administration will soon change the way it evaluates the harm from coal plants spewing more pollution into the air according to a Monday New York Times report.	True
This was part ofa wider war on the Green Blob which has also involved withdrawing from the UNs Paris climate accord.	But some industry groups want a replacement to give utilities regulatory certainty and avoid possible lawsuits by environmental groups.	Even within his own cabinet there are numerous siren voices Javanka Secretary of State Tillerson Economics advisor Gary Cohn urging Trump to maintain his predecessors disastrous green policies.	Hence Trumps election trail promise and executive orderin March this yearrequesting EPA chief Scott Pruitt to rescind the CPP.	But it also lays the groundwork for new presumably weaker regulations by asking for the public and industry to offer ideas for a replacement.	False
The bad news came fromthe American Lung Association's annual State of the Air report which covers the years 2015 2017.	The bad news about air pollutionspread nationwide in thereport Smog and soot choked air is worsening amid heat waves and bigger wildfires as environmental protections are rolled back.	The boom in people brings an increase in cars and trucks on the roads and many of those people live in valleys and basins right where pollution tends to settle.	Soot pollution is deadlier and more of a health hazard than smog causingmore premature deaths and lung cancer the lung association said.	The state would be much worse off without its strict laws on tailpipe pollution and eliminating coal fired power plants.	False
Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward.	Tim Donnellyis a former California State Assemblyman and Author currently on a book tour for his new bookPatriot Not Politician Win or Go Homeless.	Brown one of the most outspoken elected official in the U.S. about the need for policies to combat climate change would be replicating similar moves by China France and the U.K. Ive gotten messages from the governor asking Why havent we done something already?	Governor Jerry Brown has expressed an interest in barring the sale of vehicles powered by internal combustion engines Mary Nichols chairman of theCalifornia Air Resources Board said in an interview Friday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.The earliest such a ban is at least a decade away she said.	The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California.	False
The youths held signs that read Greed Kills Help My Home is on Fire and 527 Years of Indigenous Resistance and chanted in between speeches phrases such as What do we want?	The publicist for the New York City protest refused to speak with Breitbart News when an inquiry was made about Thunbergs appearance and about Alexandria Villaseor a 14 year old who claims she has been protesting every Friday at the United Nations for 38 weeks.	Climate Justice.	A speaker said that the protest was not the goal of the movement by a catalyst for action including a planned global climate strike on September 20 just three days ahead of a U.N. climate summit that is expected to draw leaders from around the world and where Thunberg will be a special guest and speaker.	We cannot live in a world that is burning one young woman said that is melting.	True
Its a matter of survival former Kiribati President Anote Tong said after meeting with former U.S. President Barack Obama that year.	Also the removal and the clearing of the native vegetation respectively caused marked changes in island configuration and shoreline destabilization on some islands Duvat wrote.	The study findings may seem counter intuitive given that sea level has been rising in the region over the past half century but the dominant mode of change over that time on Tuvalu has been expansion not erosionKench said in February.	When the United Nations met in 2015 to hash out the Paris climate accord Kiribati joined other island nations in calling for an international agreement to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	That may come as a shock in light of reports that Pacific Islanders in places like Kiribati are becoming climate refugees because of rising sea levels which many scientists blame on greenhouse gas emissions.	True
The problem is the age old tragedy of the commons.	The shift in government policy likely will force Musk and his investors to revamp his sprawling business empire which relies on government subsidies and on preferencesfor solar energy over natural fuels.	This results in an error in market signals and far more CO2 is generated than should be.	However those financial gains for Musk depend on higher energy taxes for the nations established manufacturing sectors especially in Midweststates.Breitbart described the economic impact of the climate agreement Unsurprisingly Musk is a strong advocate for growing carbon taxes on natural fuels.	The common good being consumed is atmospheric and oceanic carbon capacity which currently has a price of zero.	True
The climate crisis is the existential crisis for our world she said.	It was a different story this time around.	The relatively brief segment devoted to climate change Tuesday is unlikely to satisfy environmental activists.	They have pressed for an official DNC climate change debate because they argue its needed to finally allot candidates the time to debate their plans in depthand to highlight the fact that President Donald Trump has no answers himself.	The Democratic candidates sounded the alarm on climate change in the first presidential debates but the discussion in June was so limited that they never really got into the details of how theyd solve the crisis.	False
Want climate news in your inbox?	The rules created potentially unduly burdensome requirements for oil and natural gas production operators on the Outer Continental Shelf without meaningfully increasing safety of the workers or protection of the environment says the new 176 page rule which is scheduled in the coming days to be published in the Federal Register before becoming the administrations final policy.	Sign up here for Climate Fwd our email newsletter.	This rule supports the administrations objective of facilitating energy dominance by encouraging increased domestic oil and gas production and reducing unnecessary burdens on stakeholders while ensuring safety and environmental protection the new rule says.	WASHINGTON The Trump administration has completed its plan to roll back major offshore drilling safety regulations that were put in place after the Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster in 2010 that killed 11 people and caused the worst oil spill in American history.	False
President Trump Donald John TrumpSunday shows preview Shutdown negotiations continue after White House immigration proposal Rove warns Senate GOP Don't put only focus on base Ann Coulter blasts Trump shutdown compromise We voted for Trump and got Jeb!	Trump dismissedthe report saying he did not believe its findings and disputing that climate change is man made.	The president who hasrepeatedly cast doubt on the existence and effects of climate change has regularly cited significant winter storms to mock the concept of global warming.	The current winter storm prompted the governor of Kansas to declare a state of emergency canceled thousands of flights and dumped more than a foot of snow across most of upstate New York.	Large parts of the Country are suffering from tremendous amounts of snow and near record setting cold.	True
But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	But that is where reality tempers the possibilities.	There are other challenges too.	In April 2017 Tamil Nadu farmers camped out in India's capital Delhi staging dramatic protests stuffing dead rats in their mouths stripping themselves naked in front of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home and drinking their own urine to underscore the intensity of the drought back home.	In June 2017 villagers in Tamil Nadu's parched Ramanathapuram district were protesting against a solar power plant they alleged that more than 200000 litres of scarce water was being extracted illegally from bore wells to clean the 250000 solar modules daily.	True
Like this story?	Elections have consequences.	It's the damage we are doing to the planet one Twitter user noted in response to the Now This video.	Scott's strategy for dealing with it is denial.	The motive behind Scott's alleged science denial has also received media attention.	True
That fight is over 1500 acres of forest in Louisiana that the FWS designated as critical habitat for the survival of the species even though the frogs dont live on it.	Further down the road experts expect a fight over which of the nations waterways are actually protected under the Clean Water Act to return to the Supreme Court which sent lawsuits on this issue to district courts in January.	So there was no majority opinion.	One area legal experts are split on is whether the 2007 decision that greenhouse gases are pollutants will be reconsidered.	The owners of the forest are challenging the government agencys ability to declare property as critical habitat when a species doesnt live on it as well as the government not taking economic costs into account in making such designations.	True
Egoism and self interest have turned creation a place of encounter and sharing into an arena of competition and conflict he said.	Of six different options global warming and climate change performed the worst beaten handily by climate crisis environmental destruction weather destabilization and environmental collapse.	Recent studies have shown that the language of climate change and global warming do not stir up an emotional reaction in people and so climate alarmists have issued an appeal for the use of more powerful expressions to provoke people to action.	The expression climate crisis for instance got a 60 percent greater emotional response from listeners than climate change the study found.	Last April a team of advertising consultants from SPARK Neuro released the results of astudysuggesting that worn out expressions such as climate change do not frighten people enough whereas stronger vocabulary such as climate crisis and environmental collapse produced a significantly stronger emotional response.	True
For natural gas companies its a threat to their existence.	Thats exactly the wrong direction Nilles said.	Its the only thing that people ever ask about Bruce Nilles who directs the building electrification program of the Rocky Mountain Institute a Colorado based think tank that focuses on energy and resource efficiency said in the USA Today report.	And for some cooks who love to prepare food with flame its an unthinkable loss.	The idea that denying access to natural gas in new homes is necessary to meet emissions reduction goals is false American Gas Association President and CEO Karen Harbert.	False
Those who point to discrepancies in the global warming narrative have also noted that many of the solutions offered by climate change advocates do very little to actually stop carbon emissions and turn back the clock.	Daniel Rothman told the publication that we are approaching a threshold of catastrophe in the carbon cycle similar to that of the five previous periods of mass extinction over the last 540 million years.	Rothman goes on to explain that the tipping point of unknown territory wont take that long he predicts it will come as soon as 2100 or sooner.	According to Digital Trends a mass extinction eventis an event in which a large number of species become extinct at once as was the case with the death of thedinosaurs65 million years ago.	One is a critical rate of change corresponding to the rate at which CO2 is added to the oceanatmosphere system.	True
In 2015 Greenpeace activists duped Happer into agreeing to write a report on the benefits of carbon dioxide for a fictional oil company.	To avert climate chaos we need to challenge the free market fundamentalism that has conquered the world since the 1980s.	The answer doesnt really matter.	As Naomi Klein argues even the rights fervent conspiracy theorists tend to understand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are for business as usual which has distributed its profits among elites of both parties.	Members of Trumps cabinet Klein has written donald trump tax cuts climate change republican ideology capitalism with their desperate need to deny the reality of global warming or belittle its implications nonetheless understand something that is fundamentally true.	False
When it comes to advice the agency receives the core concern over the need to avoid conflicts of interest is this Is advice tainted because the entity employing and paying the advisor stands to gain or lose financially from the agency decision that is under advisement?	At a Tuesday afternoon event rolling out the new policy Administrator Scott Pruitt invoked a biblical tale from the book of Joshua in which the pagans are instructed to choose this day whom you will serve either God or the gods of your fathers.	Scott Pruitt doesnt want to listen to a word from anyone who isnt in the pocket of corporate polluters Sierra Club Executive Director Michael Brune said in a statement.	As it relates to grants from this agency youre going to have to choose said Pruitt who described the new rule as a way of ensuring theres integrity in the process and that the scientists that are advising us are doing so without any kind of appearance of conflict.	Wholly unaddressed by the directive is any counterpart prohibition on scientists funded by industries with conflicts of interest from serving as EPA advisors Richard Denison a lead senior scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund wrote in a blog post.	True
Thosematters need to be resolved before the Legislative session ends at the end of the week.	Critics say it would hurt the business community and exacerbate a divide between liberalurban areas and conservative rural parts of the state.	The cap and trade program intended to rein in industrial carbon emissions lost traction even with the state's Democratic senators according to Courtney sparking protesters who were initially demanding that Republicans return to the floor for a vote to begin chantingPeter Courtney's got to go.	Kate Brown also a Democratauthorized the state police to round up the 12 Republicans who walked out of the Statehousein protest of the bill Thursday and bring them back to the Senate floor for a vote but to no avail.	And the only way we could do that and stop this vote is by not providing a quorum for Democrats to roll over us.. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Protesters in support of the climate bill were disappointed Tuesday after Courtney's announcement despite assurances by Democratic lawmakers who insisted they would find a path forward for the bill.	True
The White House official said Trump resented the corporate critics who ride in fossil fuel guzzling planes and SUVs then act holier than thou according to Axios.	Trump said the deal transferred wealth from the U.S. to economic rivals like China and India.	This is religion for the political left and our supporters are constantly being asked to change their behavior a top White House official told Axios who added that snarky comments from European leaders also encouraged Trump to withdraw.	Now a new report sheds some more light into why President Trump rejected the globalist scam and its incrediblespecifically he wanted to stick it to holier than thou elites in America specifically leftists who flyaround in private jets drive SUVs and live in massive mansions yet lecture Americans about their environmental impact.	President Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal is a giant middle finger to elitists all around the world who want America to suffer simply to promote their global warming alarmism.	True
Responding to challenges in the energy sphere one issue at a time results in many conservatives missing the forest for the trees and not talking enough about what pro market energy policy looks like.	Unwittingly in conservatives quest for equal treatment of different energy sources they have adopted policies that reinforce governments role in dictating energy outcomes.	Conservatives sorely need to define an energy narrative rooted in market principles.	Conservatives have an opportunity to retake the energy narrative with a platform that favors competition and choice.	While the Left is happy to use regulation to promote specific forms of energy they find ideologically appealing the response from conservatives all too often has been to weakly offer the all of the above catchphrase as a counterweight.	True
Governor Brown has pushed two contradictory agendas for months.	Mandating conservation however is drastically different from incentivizing it.	John Woodling of the Sacramento Regional Water Authority told the Sacramento Bee that Browns assertion of state power in this area will give it permanent unchecked control over local water management decisions.	But water conservation can only go so far.	In January Californias Jerry Brown became the first governor in the states history to declare a state of emergency for a drought and a flood simultaneously.	False
It could lead to a carbon tariff trade war.	But withdrawing from the landmark accord that committed nearly every nation to take action against planet warming emissions could create diplomatic blowback while weakening American leadership in arenas far afield from energy and the environment.	Harold G. Hamm the chief executive of Continental Resources and a Trump campaign adviser has also condemned the pact.	Bob Murray the chief executive of the coal company Murray Energy who is personally close with the president has also strongly criticized the deal.	Mr. Book the analyst noted that the risks of withdrawing from the Paris deal include not only diplomatic ill will but also the possibility of trade reprisals.	True
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	There are several dangers that would face the colonists.	But what should happen after that first step?	Imagine an opportunity of building an entirely new world from scratch!	It will be essential that we map and evaluate all possible resources that could be useful.	False
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	And were recycling recycling recycling.	They referred to the irreversible agreement as a vital instrument for our planet societies and economies.	Its the height of irony given Europes virtue signaling last year.	There is nothing more vital for environmental protection than our freedom to protect the environment as individuals without Big Government and its endless red tape.	True
Speaking at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow slammed the progressive proposal that was recently introduced by Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez of New York and Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts.	The resolution co sponsored by several Democrats running for President in 2020 has been heavily criticized by those on the right.	Ocasio Cortez fired back on Twitter and said A living wage isn't a gift it's a right.	Kudlow said the deal will knock out energy transportation airlines jobs businesses.	Kudlow said universal health care and ending private insurance were also crazy ideas citing high costs.	False
The facts of climate science and the urgency of the climate threat to the US are a nuisance to an administration that has consistently prioritized the demands of the fossil fuel industry to roll back federal policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions.	Asked Do you believe in climate change?	Well I think that both sides have you know their own results from their studies and I appreciate and respect both sides of the science Craft said.	Though several members of the Trump administration including President Trump himself continue to cast doubt on humans role in the changing climate without providing any evidence its simply not a matter on which scientists disagree at all.	A Global News report from 2017 provides some details about him While the Crafts have a personal financial stake in pushing climate denialism other prominent Republicans have tried to tamp down on the conclusions of the Climate Assessment by citing concerns about the impact curbing greenhouse gas emissions would have on industry and jobs.	True
Republican lawmakers worried the Obama era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers.	The resolution calls for aWorld War II style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Certainly environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of peoples diets in the name of the climate but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health.	True
He criticized Trumps sudden announcement of a potential withdrawal as not the way it should be done.	Trade Renegotiate NAFTA.	He vigorously opposed a Texas law Davis Juli n Castro rally abortion rights 4660994.php to ban abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy and limit facilities and access to abortions in general.	Social issues Abortion should remain legal after 20 weeks.	Immigration ICE and the border Allow a path to citizenship house committee spars with san antonio mayor.html for most undocumented immigrants.	True
We are watching with bated breath the teamwrote.	The growth spurt between May 25 and May 31 was the largest they have observed since January Project MIDAS says and the inevitable splintering of Ice Shelf C will drastically alter the landscape of the continent and will make the ice that remains less stable.	The group states that although this specific crack was not likely caused by climate change the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves contributes to rising sea levels that threaten coastal cities.	Concern about rising sea levels was one of many factors that inspired the Paris Agreements goal of limiting the rise of global temperatures.	The group is unsure exactly when the rapidly growing crack will cause Ice Shelf C to break free from Antarctica but believes that the rift has now reached a region of soft ice and that there is very little holding the ice shelf together.	True
Among the list of the biggest threats to food and water security were pollution climate change and deforestation.	Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have.	Scientists say governments businesses and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming fishing forestry mining or infrastructure development.	The report conducted by 550 experts from around the world said reduced biodiversity could affect people's quality of life.	The actions of mankind could lead to the extinction of half of African birds and mammals by the end of 2100 a UN backed study has said.	False
She said the effects of invasive species such as kudzu lionfish and Australian pines have already caused chaos in the southern states where they lack predators and displace native plants and animals and already cost the states millions of dollars in losses and eradication.	She points to the massive wildlife that hit Portugal last month that left 60 people dead and one that happened in Chile in January.	Activists from the South Pacific Islands Southern Asia and North and South America weighed in rejecting all genetically engineered trees including field trials.	Petermann said another red flag is wildfires.	She said it was clear that the planet once had rivers and great amounts of water and possibly an atmosphere similar to ours but a global catastrophe had happened.	True
In this episode the big problem really seems to have been the agricultural burning assistant professor Thomas Smith of the London School of Economics told the BBC.	It's thought to have resulted in thousands of deaths.	But it's not always been like that.	The fight against air pollution in three global cities Why is India worse off than China?	What differentiates China from India is that in the latter there is still a lot of burning of agricultural stubble when farmers want to clear their fields.	True
They're a matter of life or death.	At this year's State of the Union address Trump talked about ending the war on beautiful clean coal.	A fifth generation coal miner from Virginia has spoken out against President Donald Trump's rhetoric surrounding the coal mining industry saying the President is making false promises that are only going to line the pockets of coal executives.	In a New York Times op ed video published Tuesday Nick Mullins a ninth generation Appalachian from Virginia said that if Trump wants to help the Appalachian mining communities that support him lowering emission standards is not the way to do it.	We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue he said.	True
The new order could put the administration at loggerheads with California regulators again.	It marks the latest assault on clean air rules putting poor people and communities of color particularly at risk.	In what could be the most controversial part the order requires the EPAs science advisers to consider the downside of cleaner air rulessomething for which industry groups have clamored for years.	This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters its nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science gut our clean air protections and put polluter profits ahead of our health Sara Jordan a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters said in a statement.	That directive is likely to prompt watchdog groups to sue.	True
Social media users were quick to criticize Bidens response with some mocking him for saying he had started climate change and others pointing out that his 1987 effort didnt really work out so well.	Biden interrupted the girl before she was finished asking By the way did you know Im the guy who did all this?	Biden has been criticized for reportedly planning a middle ground approach to climate policy that is accused of lacking urgency and not going far enough.	Joe Biden has been roundly mocked on Twitter after making the unlikely claim to a young activist appealing for a presidential debate on climate change that he kicked off the whole global warming movement back in the late 1980s.	A young activist from US Youth Climate Strike asked Biden if he would support a presidential climate policy forum organized by the group.	True
In her impassioned address yesterday she said 'This is all wrong.	People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	She skipped school for the first three weeks after term began and then took Fridays off to spend the day outside Sweden's parliament with a sign labelled 'School strike for climate'.	The 16 year old is taking a year out of school to lobby for climate action after starting the school strike movement in Sweden last August.	'You have stolen my dreams my childhood with your empty words.	True
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The new rule is really a dereliction of duty moral ethical but also legal Andres Restrepo a lawyer with the Sierra Club's Environmental Law Program told the Post.	While Trump has been in office the air has gotten dirtier.	To make matters worse on Wednesday the EPA finalized what will be its biggest climate policy rollback according to the Washington Post.	That's the exact opposite of what Trump regularly claims.	True
Peter Robbins an FPL spokesman said Mayor Stoddard is wrong.	At Fukushima in Japan an earthquake and tsunami disrupted power supplies and caused the fuel in some units to meltdown.	Repairs cost about 90 million.	Things are better today than in March 2011.	He said he was more worried about the nuclear waste than the reactors.	True
Rising temperatures Montana is warming nearly twice as quickly as the global average and changes in precipitation patterns are eroding away glaciers in the state and elsewhere along the Rocky mountains.	Its inevitable that we will lose them all over the next few decades Farge said.	Some have lost as much as 85 of their expanse over the past 50 years with Glacier national park site of 37 of the surveyed glaciers set to lose all of its eponymous ice formations within the next few decades.	Andrew Fountain a geologist at Portland State added While the shrinkage in Montana is more severe than some other places in the US it is in line with trends that have been happening on a global scale.	wikimedia commons Its now inevitable that the contiguous United States will lose all of its glaciers within a matter of decades according to scientists who have revealed the precipitous shrinkage of dozens of glaciers in Montana.	True
The battle of Initiative 1631 has become the most expensive in state history so far drawing 45 million from both sides of the policy.	The political battle heated up that month when gas tax opponents threatened to recall Attorney General Xavier Becerra a Democrat for allegedly trying to mislead voters about the proposal.	Opponents have attacked the ballot measure for its odd pairing of issues smoking and offshore drilling.	The Daily Caller News Foundation lays out everything one needs to know about the six most important energy battles this election.	While our editorial board opposes offshore drilling in state waters we also are philosophically opposed to the Constitution Revision Commissions bundling of these unrelated issues into a single amendment the editorial board of Treasure Coast Newspapers wrote in October.	True
Sometimes you do fight fire with fire.	You have to deploy your resources on each side of the fire and continue to construct lines.	This fire moved so fast I don't think anybody did anything wrong Ms Schori says when asked whether those forced to abandon vehicles and escape on foot could have acted differently.	If you don't evacuate and it becomes a rescue situation then our firefighters are taken away from the firefight and moved to the rescue.	And straying away from natural burning cycles has also contributed to the lethality of recent fires Prof Peterson says.	True
This story was originally published byHuffPostand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	The loss came as Coloradans voted down Proposition 112 a measure that would have put about 85 percent of non federal land in the Centennial State off limits to oil and gas drilling.	Yet fears over rising gas prices proved more convincing to Evergreen State voters.	But Initiative 1631 took a different approach imposing the carbon price in the form of a fee.	The Evergreen States third and latest attempt to put a price on climate pollution failed Tuesday as voters rejected the historic ballot measure notching yet another win for the oil and gas industry.	True
Gov.	But at the state level politicians are fighting back and nowhere more so than in California.	Heoutraged the world by exiting the Paris climate agreement.	He is trying to undo the Clean Power Plan fuel economy standards for carsoffshore drilling restrictions and solar tax credits.	Republicans cast the deciding votes amid the endorsement of prominent California GOP politicians like former Gov.	False
I believe theres climate change Walberg said according to a video of the exchange obtained first published by the Huffington Post.	No.	he continued.	Walberg was speaking to constituents in Coldwater Mich. last week when he was asked about climate change.	Do I think man has some impact?	True
People are unhappy and that means they may make irrational decisions.	The research was published in the journal Nature Human Behaviour.	It suggests that people were four points unhappier than they would have been without polluted levels.	They found a significantly negative correlation between pollution and happiness levels with every increase in pollution above a healthy level bringing happiness down by 0.04 points out of 100.	Air pollution is not just bad for health also makes people unhappy a new study has shown.	True
The report delivers a strikingly different message than the one being pushed by Trump and his Cabinet members who continue to downplay the urgency of the threat as they work toward energy dominance.	Meanwhile his Cabinet members have refused to say whether Trump believes climate change is real and continue to question how much the scientific community understands about the threat and the role humans play in observed changes.	Is man having an effect on it?	In a post to Twitter Gavin Schmidt a climate scientist and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies said that nothing in the report is surprising for people working in the field but that it may be shocking to those that think climate change is just a future problem.	In June he announced plans topull the U.S. out of the historic Paris Agreement on climate change the international accord in which nearly 200 countries committed to slashing carbon emissions in an effort to prevent global temperatures fromincreasing 2 degrees Celsiusabove pre industrial levelsthe line scientists say the world must stay below to stave off the very worst effects of climate change.	True
This is the first of perhaps more events like that to come Tina Neal the scientist in charge of the USGS Hawaiian Volcano Observatory said on a conference call of Wednesdays blast which shot projectiles from the crater.	He tried to reach his house on Tuesday but he and his neighbors were blocked by a 20 foot tall 6 meter tall wall of lava.	Evacuee David Nail was anxious to learn if his house had been destroyed.	The 57 year old who recently retired to the area from Orange County California said he had seen drone footage showing lava flowing up his driveway causing two propane tanks to explode.	PAHOA Hawaii Reuters A large explosion in Hawaiis Kilauea volcano on Wednesday may mark the beginning of more violent explosive eruptions that could spray rocks for miles kilometers and dust nearby towns in volcanic ash and smog the U.S. Geological Survey said.	False
he said.	Here's why it matters We now have to monitor this glacier carefully.	A massive waterfall formed on Greenland's ice sheet.	Morlighem says climate change could impact this region.	And because of the size of the area they were trying to map the process was very time consuming.	True
Concern about climate has heightened in recent weeks amid fires in the Arctic and the Amazon rainforest and melting of ice in Greenland.	Environmentalists vowed to sue the administration over the proposal.	We simply cannot protect our children and grandchildren from climate catastrophe if EPA lets this industry off scot free said David Doniger a climate and clean energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council.	If EPA moves forward with this reckless and sinister proposal we will see them in court.	The plan will undergo a period of public comment before being finalized and environmental groups pledged court action to try to block repeal of the limits.	False
Leckie said there was something of a vicious circle when it came to medical prescriptions and climate related disease.	There are growing fears that the unchecked use of antibiotics in both medicine and agriculture will have adverse effects on the environment and on human health.	And the situation is set to get even more acute as climate change increases the spread and frequency of infectious diseases such as malaria and dengue.	Human activity such as population growth and transport combined with climate change increases antibacterial resistance... and therefore the need for more pharmaceuticals.	The Organisation for Economic Co operation and Development OECD compared data on concentrations of pharmaceutical residue in water samples worldwide as well as prescribing trends and water purification regulations in various countries.	True
A number of Pruitt policies are thought to be shoddily constructed and have faced significant legal challenges.	As the New York Times points out however there is one crucial way that Wheeler differs from his departing boss.	Inhofe was among Pruitts biggest fans although the barrage of scandals ultimately began to dim his enthusiasm.	Inhofe is known for denying that climate change is affected by human activity once throwing a snowball onto the Senate floor to counter arguments about climate change and prove that it was very very cold outside.	Pruitt was Oklahomas attorney general before being named to Trumps Cabinet and an outsider who recklessly took advantage of the privileges he obtained.	True
The courts ruling is yet another reminder now in the context of environmental protection that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the presidents desire to order immediate change Richard Lazarus environmental law professor at Harvard Law School said in an email as reported by the Post.	At the time Pruitt was the Attorney General of Oklahoma and he and others sued the EPA to overturn the legislation.	There will be a separate administration public hearing on the same extension next Monday according to the Washington Post.	Lazarus continued the DC Circuits ruling today makes clear that neither the president nor his EPA administrator Scott Pruitt can by fiat unilaterally and instantaneously repeal or otherwise stay the effectiveness of the environmental protection rules put into place during the Obama administration.	Pruitt has also begun to move on suspending or revoking many other measures which were implemented during the Obama years.	True
Even though we're the ones who have been pointing to these potential scenarios for problems with other countries we seem to be the biggest problem Light says.	The U.S. even helped spearhead language that would hold countries accountable for the promises they made in part to help guard against regime changes and other global political turmoil.	This isn't the first time the U.S. has reneged on an international climate agreement.	In this case the U.S. became a signatory to the agreement but almost immediately signaled that it didn't intend to pursue its responsibilities.	We're a big country with a lot of power and a lot of influence around the world.	True
This sets in motion a welcome correction to a deeply problematic regulation that ignored the careful balance that Congress struck between federal and state water regulation and constitutional limits on federal authority said Hal Quinn NMA president and chief executive.	But while the rule was applauded by environmentalists for improving drinking water protections and aiding wildlife that relies on wetlands it was attacked by some farmers and golf course operators who claimed it hindered their ability to manage their land.	Trump has called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation and a massive power grab.	Once again the Trump administration has agreed to do the bidding of the worst polluters in our country and once again its putting the health of American families and communities at risk said Michael Brune executive director of Sierra Club.	Signing his order the president said thousands of jobs were at risk because the EPA decided that navigable waters can mean nearly every puddle or every ditch on a farmers land or anyplace else that they decide.	False
The sale comes amid an ongoing debate over drilling in states like Colorado Arizona and New Mexico where a coalition of tribes are calling for a halt on energy development near land that Native Americans consider sacred.	Hovenweep is in all of our stories and to threaten the integrity of these structures jeopardizes everything weve carried forward as resilient people.	But the new energy dominated era she said were in has made public input on these processes harder.	When this oil and gas leasing happens on or near sacred lands it risks de stabilizing the bedrock of the structures said Ahjani Yepa a member of Utah Din Bikyah a Navajo grass roots organization.	You wouldnt like it if I went into your home your land and started digging.	False
University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. pointed out problems with the study on Twitter Saturday including the fact it was funded by groups connected with Bloomberg and Steyer.	But even the United Nations worst case scenario called RCP8.5 is being called into question by experts.	The oft repeated claim also stemmed from a global warming projection thats come under increased scrutiny from experts including one who called it outlandish.	Andrew Light a distinguished senior fellow at the World Resources Institute and reviewer of the chapter highlighting the Bloomberg Steyer funded study did not respond to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for comment.	Global Change Research Program USGCRP which is responsible for producing the NCA.	True
What are we looking for?	Wall asked.	Many survivors at Monday's forum and in fire zones where people are returning say they are confused about what authorities will allow them to do at their blackened properties before the massive waste removal.	Laney Wall who lost her home in the Sonoma County community of Fountaingrove asked why homeowners had to go through the expense trouble and wait of the clean up at all.	I just have more questions now Danny Thom another Fountaingrove resident said after the meeting.	False
President Donald Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement has been portrayed in some press coverage as a decision driven by either his personal idiosyncrasies or the policy agenda of White House chief strategist Steve Bannon.	Which makes it the crucial context for Trumps move Thursday.	The reality is that one of the USs two major political parties is institutionally committed at nearly every level to the same basic agenda of environmental deregulation and inaction on carbon emissions.	Though Trumps withdrawal from the Paris agreement has been received by some as a shocking move it was hardly a fringe position in the Republican Party he was being outright pressured to do it.	The occasional notable Republican politician who does conclude that the scientific consensus is accurate and tries to work with Democrats on the issue gets slammed by these passionate and well organized groups and can face serious pressure from the right as happened to Lindsey Graham when he was working on a cap and trade bill in 2010 and got attacked by Fox News.	True
Circuit decides on the merits of the GOP industry lawsuit against it.	Since that time the rule has been mired in court challenges and it produced the first instance in history where the Supreme Court presumed a rule was unreasonable before a lower court ruled on the issue The Supreme Court dealt a blow to President Obamas signature climate change initiative Tuesday by halting the administrations effort to reduce pollution from coal fired power plants while a legal battle rages on.	The sum total of this is to take this issue out of the courts and then give the environmental nazis a new chew toy to play with for several years.	That likely would push the battle into 2017 or beyond.	Oral arguments are set for early June.	True
Merkel called the conversation controversial.	On the other side President Trump.	And up for debate the peril of climate change and the urgency of the U.S. commitment to the Paris accord to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.	And then there was the chat between the G 7 leaders.	Still to be determined whether it was persuasive or consequential.	True
Photo GettyEyeEm The evidence behind global climate change continues to mount and scientists keep speaking out.	Now they hope the world will listen.	Its intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that youre talking about.	Were scientists and were providing objective information Jessica Blunden a climate scientist at NOAAs National Climatic Data Center in Asheville N.C. told Yahoo News.	There are about four different independent data sets we looked at to come to this conclusion Blunden told Yahoo News.	True
However the study finds that no single solution will avert the dangers so a combined approach is needed.	Fast on the heels of the landmark report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC comes this new study on how food production and consumption impact major threats to the planet.	So when it comes to climate change the authors looked at what they called a flexitarian diet.	The key element is that these three solutions must be implemented together.	Tackling food loss and waste will require measures across the entire food chain from storage and transport over food packaging and labelling to changes in legislation and business behaviour that promote zero waste supply chains said Fabrice de Clerck director of science at EAT who funded the study.	True
Now whats the negotiating process?	The official insisted his own views were irrelevant while a White House staff member interjected Can we stay on topic please?	The official echoed Can we stay on topic please?	There was a chorus of condemnation from world leaders former president Barack Obama and Trumps defeated election opponent Hillary Clinton who branded it a historic mistake.	one said.	True
On Tuesday some of the Republicans in hiding were not sure what to make of Courtneys statement about the votes.	Republicans had used the moment as an opportunity to appear defiant with one Republican state senator Brian Boquist even threatening police.	The concession from Democrats may have been motivated by a time constraint.	They also said they were being bullied by Senate Democrats.	Democratic Gov.	True
Ironically she failed because of left wing communist protesters in Chile Henderson was forced to make the flight last second because protests in Chile caused the U.N.s Cop25 climate summit to be moved to Madrid Spain.	From the Hill Greta Thunbergs plan for carbon free travel was contradicted when her sailboat captain flew across the Atlantic Ocean to pick her up.	No wonder celebs opt to be complete and utter hypocrites instead of actually trying to get carbon neutral.	The plan for zero emissions travel was subverted when Thunbergs yacht captain Nikki Henderson 26 flew to the United States from England burning roughly two or three tons of carbon CO2 in the process.	Greta Thunberg tried really hard to keep her zero emissions promise but it has collapsed like all hypocritical left wing plans because it was just too difficult.	True
The offshore drilling announcement drew immediate outrage from both Democrats and Republicans who expressed concern about possible environmental damage and negative effects on tourism.	The language also points to broader reform efforts that occurred after the Gulf spill including thedivision of the Minerals Management Service the scandal plagued agency faced with the conflicting tasks of issuing leases and policing offshore drilling operations into three new agencies.	He also expressed concern about merging the two agencies but said the administration has in effect already done that by putting the safety bureau in the hands of Angelle a big proponent of offshore fossil fuel development.	Rick Scott a staunch Trump supporter he was removing the states coastal waters from consideration.	She said it references the Well Control Rule and the Production Safety Systems Rule two regulations that were under development back in early 2015 and are now on Trumps chopping block.	True
Firstly he called me a liar.	He wrote Do not humiliate the guy ha ha.	The two presidents hold sharply different political views with Mr Bolsonaro hailing from the far right in Brazil and Mr Macron elected in a run off against the far right in France.	Every year it is the same these fires are disturbing the region a lot.	It's a risky situation we have lots of crops here and everything is burning such as the cashew trees he told the BBC.	True
This weeks conference drew attention to the huge risks involved.	That would break the slow moving agreement among many environmental groups that sound research in this field makes sense Keith said on the sidelines of the Climate Engineering Conference CEC in Berlin.	Keith also dismissed the view that climate engineers like himself were on a mission to prove that climate engineering worked at all costs or else see the importance of decades of their lifes work evaporate.	David Keith a solar geoengineering GE expert at Harvard University has said there is a real danger that his work could be exploited by those who oppose action on emissions at the same time as he defended himself and colleagues from the claims GE strengthens the argument for abandoning the targets set by the Paris climate agreement.	But scientists such as Keith and Mark Lawrence scientific director of the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies IASS in Potsdam argue that with the Paris agreement goals to limit temperature rise to two degrees or less almost impossible to achieve the world has little choice than to thoroughly explore technical intervention and the potential it has to avoid global disaster.	True
What they are saying in their different ways is that global warming as in the big scare story that the planet is heating up at a catastrophic unprecedented rate because of man made CO2 emissions is bunk or that the methods being used to combat the problem are bunk.	Greenhouse Effect Not the Main Driver of Climate Together with these 400 new papers that makes 900 science papers in the last two years casting doubt on global warming.	Detecting a clear anthropogenic forcing signal amidst the noise of unforced natural variability may therefore be difficult.	In other words nobody is denying that climate changes nobody is denying that the planet has warmed by 0.8 degrees C in the last 150 yearswhile only a handfuldeny that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases has the power to influence temperatures.	a greener planet and enhanced crop yields.	True
The lawsuit contended that the companies sought to refute scientific findings regarding how greenhouse gas pollution was causing climate change and failed to prevent the harm that would result from consumers using fossil fuel products.	The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products.	Kilmartin is seeking to force the companies to pay for damages associated with climate change citing the costs taxpayers were incurring to repair roads and bridges and rebuild coastal structures.	The lawsuit announced by Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Kilmartin was the first by a state seeking to hold oil companies responsible for costs associated with climate change and followed similar cases by several local governments nationally.	Shell in a statement said lawsuits that masquerade as climate action and impede the collaboration needed for meaningful change were not the answer to climate change.	True
Trudeau and Trump exchanged words over the phone on Thursday night when the prime minister expressed his disappointment with the presidents decision according to a news release from the Prime Ministers Office.	Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his climate change minister Catherine McKenna are both disappointed over President Donald Trumps decision to break with the Paris climate accord.	We want to be there we want to be providing solutions for the world.	This is about an ambitious and unshakable desire to leave a cleaner healthier and more sustainable planet for our kids and for generations to come.	Despite the lofty objectives when Trudeau signed the Paris accord he was widely criticized in Canada by environmentalists for selling out to an agreement that they said was far too lenient on greenhouse gas producers.	True
The E.P.A.	Want climate news in your inbox?	The proposed shift is the latest example of the Trump administration downgrading the estimates of environmental harm from pollution in regulations.	had originally forecast that eliminating the Obama era rule the Clean Power Plan and replacing it with a new measure would have resulted in an additional 1400 premature deaths per year.	Sign up here for Climate Fwd our email newsletter.	True
Thats the environmentalinjustice and racism that were dealing with and my plan would equip Americans with the tools tofight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what isright now a tremendous injustice he said.	Theyre often communities of color.	Theyre the ones who can least afford to deal with the climate crisis he said during the CNN town hall.	We know that this climate crisis is going to affect all Americans and all folks around the world but we also know that its going to hit some people particularly hard people that are the first people to get affected he said.	You all know that oftentimes the first folks that get flooded out are the poorest communities.	True
Its not sustainable for Republicans through the leadership to say We just dont want to talk about this' Lott said.	The key here is the dividend back to the people former Sen. Trent Lott R MS who supports the young group told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.	We claim to be the party that cares about the future that our children will inherit and we need climate policy that reflects that said Kiera OBrien 21 a senior at Harvard University who co founded the group.	We are offering up what we see as the common sense solution and the way forward for the party OBrien said in the Reuters article.	The Thomson Reuters Foundation reported on the campaign which runs counter to the stance of the Republican Party and President Donald Trump that the issue is more about globalization than saving the planet Drawn from Republican groups on more than two dozen university campuses the Young Conservatives for Carbon Dividends called for laws to tax oil natural gas and coal producers of planet warming greenhouse gases.	False
The pledge is a significant change in position for van Beurden who had previously opposed such proposals citing concerns about potential lawsuits.	The lack of transparency and competition in the proxy advisory firm industry gives a small number of businesses significant influence over how corporations deal with environmental issues.	His concerns about potential waves of lawsuits are not unfounded.	The company has also pledged to review its connections to industry lobbying groups that oppose the Paris agreement a non binding deal crafted in 2015 with the goal of dramatically reducing global carbon emissions over the next 15 years.	The process especially disadvantages small companies in favor of larger companies that have the resources to comply with investor dictates the American Council for Capital Formation noted in May.	True
No harm no foul.	The rollbacks an international signal that were not taking carbon capture and sequestration and reducing impacts from coal seriously said Jay Duffy an associate attorney at the Clean Air Task Force.	Its nothing burger he said.	But its not regulations that are hurting the US coal industry its competition.	But the coal industry argued in court that these technologies are too expensive and immature to deploy at scale so the new standard is too difficult to meet.	True
Theres peace time and theres global nuclear combat.	The media focused on global nuclear combat.	And in order to understand it quite frankly we have to work with you he said.	Its a job that comes with the sometimes conflicting tasks of preserving and protecting public lands and waters for future generations while also setting the policies that govern extracting natural resources from them.	The facts of the matter is observable data climate change is more toward the peace time he added comparing the document to international relations.	True
It is incredibly frustrating he says.	This poses problems for the seeds of the wax palm.	With the area now safer and more accessible following the 2016 peace deal with the Farc rebels farmers are moving back and the scientists fear for the future of the national tree.	The government has the authority to buy this land and protect the trees but refuses to do so.	I'm so disappointed Mr Bernal says.	True
The presidential candidate was running more than 45 minutes late and was just beginning to lose his audienceIm starting not to love Pete so much someone remarkedwhen he took the stage.	This story was originally published byGristand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	As well as the fact that we as a country need a project and climate change is as good a one as well ever have.	But where does Buttigieg stand when it comes to implementing an economy wide plan?	First A carbon tax and dividend.	True
You have this disconnect.	He is hurting them.	In an interview on MSNBC on Thursday former Secretary of State John Kerry said President Donald Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris Climate Accord puts America last is shameful and will hurt kids by worsening their asthma.	It is a shameful moment for the United States to have unilaterally walked away from an agreement which did not have one other country requiring us to do something Kerry told Andrea Mitchell.	Kerrys primary arguments that Trumps decision will hurt kids with asthma and damage the economy were incredibly misleading.	True
Beykpour offered his boss two long shot options to push back against the public outcry.	With pro corporate protesters likely to raise some eyebrows he outlined a more radical approach sue locals in the area for past damages to the local water system to bring them to the table.	Locals did come out in force against the plant with concerned citizens flooding council meetings since the plans were announced last month.	The Chronicle rubbished the threat quoting a media law expert who stated that the companys email screw up was its own fault and not the newspapers.	Option one involved hiring a PR firm to manufacture fake grassroots support for the facility and change the conversation.	True
The change has drawn criticism by park advocates and some trail enthusiasts who say the administration did not do enough to seek public input on a policy that could damagethe park experience for many.	But this announcement disregards well established policies for how visitors can enjoyably and safely experience the backcountry in national parks said Kristen Brengel senior vice president at the National Parks Conservation Association.	Park visitors posting in June before the policy was announced on the independent National Parks Traveler web siteexpressed mixed opinions on the expanded use of the electronic bikes.	For generations weve agreed that there are some places so special that they should be protected for visitors to enjoy away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life.	WASHINGTON A Trump administration plan to provide older and disabled citizens greater access to national parks by expandingthe use of electric bikes is revving upcriticism from nature advocates who say the policy threatens to disturb pristine trails and poses a safety hazard.	False
When we look into the ocean we find that it's too warm and the ice sheet can't withstand the temperatures that are surrounding it in the sea he says.	But that has changed.	That could be a big deal he says for anybody who lives works and governs a coastal region.	Some of the estimates covered different proportions of the ice sheets some of them covered different time periods and all of them used different methods and so it became difficult for people who are not specialists to try to pick them apart says Shepherd.	This new data creates a much starker picture of the future than previous estimates.	True
Its simple the more diverse the group discussing the problem is the more comprehensive sustainable and creative the solutions are.	Its urgent that we bring more voices into the conversation.	The time has come for radical thinking for inclusive problem solving for crowd sourced innovation.	Forests are shifting and the first climate refugees have lost their homes.	AP PhotoNam Y. HuhAP It seems like every week theres a new story about some completely unprecedented unpredictable environmental event.	False
Participating in the deal the president argued puts us at a permanent disadvantage.	PARIS AGREEMENT ON CLIMATE CHANGE WASHINGTON REACTS TO US PULLOUT The Paris accord will undermine our economy Trump said during the announcement in the White House Rose Garden.	Former Vice President Al Gore blasted the decision of President Donald Trump to remove the U.S. from the Paris Climate Agreement on Thursday calling it reckless and indefensible.	It undermines Americas standing in the world and threatens to damage humanitys ability to solve the climate crisis in time.	Civic leaders mayors governors CEOs investors and the majority of the business community will take up this challenge Gore said.	True
Environmental issues have been a strong point for Newsom who last year said hewould use specific environmental laws in California to stop President Donald Trumps border wall from being built.	In an interview with the Flash Report this week Cox said water housing affordability and the gas tax are the three main issues he wants to tackle.	According to the poll which has a 3.4 margin of error 67 of Democrats 54 of independents and 33 of Republicans believe that Democrat Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom and Republican businessman John Coxs views on environmental issues will impact how they vote.	Meanwhile the PPIC poll also found that likely voters see drought and water supply as the top environmental issue facing the state followed by air pollution a majority 58 support a water bond on the November ballot and noted that astrong majority of likely voters 69 say that the effects of global warming have already begun.	Chris Hayes of MSNBC recentlysaid networks mostly try to avoid discussing environmental issues related to the topic of climate change because almost without exception.	True
Inspired by the young people leading on todays and committed to standing alongside them in the battle against climate change The global strike follows Thunbergs appearance before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and Select Committee on the Climate Crisis.	Videos are surfacing from protests across the globe showing sizable crowds in places like Ireland Germany Australia Uganda and more Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn participated in the climate strikes in London and condemned President Trump for pulling out of the Paris Climate Agreement.	The global strike set just days before September 23s U.N.	There is nothing more powerful than our nations youth marching together demanding action be taken to protect our planet and their future Sen. Kamala Harris D CA wrote.	he added Our planet is in crisisbut we arent powerless to combat it Sen. Cory Booker D NJ declared.	True
We face a direct existential threat.	Delegations from both countries will attend today's U.N. summit but their positions have diverged.	I am appealing for leadership from politicians from businesses and scientists and from the public everywhere U.N. Secretary General Antnio Guterres said when he announced the summit.	In the U.S. President Trump has threatened to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and his administration has moved to allow greater emissions from power plants vehicles and oil and gas operations.	The summit acts as a kickoff to international climate negotiations in 2020 which is the next deadline for countries to make dramatic emissions reduction promises under the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change.	True
Opposition to border adjustment a House GOP provision designed to raise revenue and help to offset major tax cuts threatens to delay or trip up efforts to pass reform.	Watch White House says no to VAT carbon tax	As we have said many times the President's team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the President's plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986.	The carbon tax would appear to clash with the priorities Trump has sought so far in his administration.	The White House did not immediately respond to CNBC's request to comment.	True
We are faced not with two separate crises one environmental and the other social but rather with one complex crisis which is both social and environmental he said.	The pontiff tied together social and ecological problems insisting that the two are intimately intertwined.	He also denounced a failure to recycle paper and other resources while calling climate change a global problem with grave implications and one of the principal challenges facing humanity in our day.	The deterioration of that biodiversity compromises the future of the country and of the earth our common home he warned.	In a word there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earths goods not only of present generations but also of those yet to come he said.	True
The article detailed aU.N.	An Associated Press headline from 1989 read Rising seas could obliterate nations U.N. officials.	Before the end of the month 2020 candidates are expected to have another climate forum at Georgetown University.	Earlier this month leading Democratic presidential candidates held a town hall on the issue and warned about the existential threat posed by a changing climate.	Climate Action Summit on Sept. 23an event that promises to spark the transformation that is urgently needed and propel action that will benefit everyone.	True
The mayor said he had challenged the citys Department of Water and Power to come up with an answer Instead of saying all the reasons why not get to a reason as to why.	He made the decision despite the fact that top staffers have argued in recent months that the gas plants are critical to keeping the lights on in the city theTimes noted.	Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor at Large at Breitbart News.	It is not clear how the state will achieve that goal.	Environmentalists are also opposed to using one of those renewable sources hydroelectric power because of concerns about environmental damage caused by dams.	True
Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oils exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012 which led to a series of problems mistakes and violations of environmental laws.	On its way back from the Beaufort Sea it lost control of its drilling vessel the Kulluk which ran aground in the Gulf of Alaska in severe weather and had to be towed to Seattle Washington and then scrapped.	The Center for Biological Diversity Greenpeace and REDOIL a coalition of Alaska native groups sued the Trump administration on May 3 citing the risk of offshore oil and gas exploration development to local communities and wildlife.	The area is remote and foreboding the complaint said.	The lawsuit also argued that Trumps reversal of the ban exceeded his constitutional authority and was thus unlawful.	True
Young people and Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma.	I wouldnt even call it compromises.	The Democratic Party has long been dogged by tensions between environmentalists clamoring for action on climate change and labor leaders warning against policies that ostracize the fossil fuel industry which provides high paid construction jobs.	In the meantime the administration has worked hard to further undercut the talks.	That mirrors the Trump administrations aggressive efforts to unwind the few relatively weak climate regulations that exist and to upend fragile negotiations at the 24th Conference of the Parties in Katowice Poland where diplomats this week are struggling to garner support for basic resolutions recognizing the scientific consensus on global warming.	True
He admitted in a media environment that rewards sensationalism and factual manipulation the approach may seem a bit bland.	The question isnt why now its why havent we all agreed to do this sooner Sandberg added.	Were not going to win the internet by going out and saying everybody is doing it wrong its just a pricing story.	There is a difference between Trump the politician and Trump the investor Jared Sandberg senior executive editor in Bloombergs digital division told HuffPost.	The Rupert Murdoch owned newspapers hard line conservativismappears to have bled over from the opinion pages to the news section.	True
But we were busy.	The problem is when people think a resource is free and so plentiful that it can never run out that you get situations where it does run out.	A tragedy is unfolding in Maharashtra and a money spinning racket for Tanker owners.	The public no tests no international treaties that will stop it.	Regarding the price of water.	True
In 2012 a heat kink caused a 32 car long freight train to derail and fly off an overpass a similar derailment happened in 2017.	Asphalt warps and melts.	Concrete if water is involved can sometimes explode or break open.	Kinks can form on train rails when the metal expands.	When temperatures get too high planes get grounded.	True
And while some might disagree with him on a policy approach to an issue which is what happened at the Montgomery County Town Hall he will continue to hold similar events for the remainder of the campaign.	shes heard shouting on video.	The 18 year old activist made a name for herself beyond the Keystone State last month when she questioned Republican gubernatorial nominee Scott Wagner at a town hall on what she said was his lack of action on climate change and donations he received from the fossil fuel industry.	Strauss said Sunrise Movement Downingtown has twice reached out to Joseph Hill Wolfs deputy campaign manager and political director to request a meeting but has yet to receive a response the Daily Record reported.	And why did Strauss win the internet that day?	True
has been asked to join her storyteller parents in telling a story of her own for a crowd.	However she's more into data than storytelling so the kids take a trip to a glacier allowing her to tell the story of you guessed it climate change which is met with a standing ovation by the audience.	This is what kids are getting excited about?	There is a pretty predictable take on climate change propaganda for little kids but that wasn't the worst.	Episode 12 Monster Power teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources.Albert one of the students has seen a movie in which the evil monster loves pollution and is coming for us next for what we've done to this planet!	False
The other from 2007 discussed how to survive global warming.	But there was one glaring problem The 1970s cover was a hoax.	This climate denier for example	One published by Newsweek is a favorite of climate deniers.	McFarland recently tried to get Trump riled up about climate change with a bit of fake news.	True
Christine Shearer is an analyst with the group CoalSwarm which tracks coal developments and she is scathing about the implications.	With Chinese workers and Serbian workers at the beginning we had some cultural problems but we have overcome them and there is now very good cooperation.	There is also a lot of noise.	Pera Markovic a lawyer with Cekor an environmental group is critical of the company's failure to limit pollution in the local area.	You cannot be a world leader in curbing air pollution and at the same time the world's biggest financier of overseas coal power plants the group's energy coordinator Ioana Ciuta told the BBC.	True
These are decisions that impact the presidents ability to make foreign policy decisions Brouillette told TheDCNF.	Brouillette also stressed the geopolitical implications of LNG exports and the role energy could play in President Donald Trumps foreign policy.	Menezes said breaking FERCs deadlock was also an important step in helping DOE improve its own LNG terminal approval process including making sure theres no duplicative reviews.	Republican FERC commissioners Neil Chatterjee the chairman and Bernard McNamee worked with Democrat Cheryl LaFleur to hash out an agreement to get her support.	FERCs other Democratic commissioner Richard Glick opposed the terminalarguinghis colleagues were deliberately ignoring the consequences that its actions have for climate change.	False
These conversations come at a particularly fraught time because Trump who does not share his predecessor Barack Obamas commitment to clean energy has been reviewing the United States environmental policies.	Amid talk of combating terrorism and the global economy they also discussed international efforts to fight climate change.	It seems our attempt failed.	Trump goes after negative press covfefe in botched midnight tweet Duck!	European Commission President Jean Claude Juncker said President Trump doesnt seem to understand that he cant immediately yank the United States out of the Paris Agreement on climate change.	True
I'll let people debate on who's the bigger problem here.	During the first round of the second Democratic presidential debate on Tuesday evening the 2020 hopefuls on the stage all agreed on the need to urgently address climate change but clashed over how to do it.	Are we part of the reason?	The climate is changing.	Perry said in a Squawk Box interview when pressed on what causes climate change.	True
The protest marked one of the most confrontational demands for a Green New Deal in months as local groups took up the mantle from national climate campaigners which have shifted their efforts to focus on demanding a climate only Democratic primary debate.	The Frontline Detroit Coalition the alliance of a dozen local environmental groups and unions who organized Tuesdays march struck a markedly different tone.	But because the events were held in a city threatened by rising sea levels debate questions focused on the magnitude of the global warming crisis and the risks posed by runaway emissions.	We are being robbed and pillaged by industry Landrum said her voice rising to a preachers righteous crescendo.	The three word slogan surged into Americas political lexicon last November when activists with the youth led Sunrise Movement occupied then incoming House Speaker Nancy Pelosis office demanding Democrats champion climate policy that actually matches the scope of the crisis.	True
Environmental advocacy groups quickly blasted Pruitt's decision with many vowing to fight the measure in court.	When you think about what that rule meant it was about picking winners and losers.	Regulatory power should not be used by any regulatory body to pick winners and losers he said at the event.	And Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club said Trump and Pruitt are launching one of the most egregious attacks on public health and climate safety.	When asked earlier this year on Fox News about the health consequences of doing away with the Clean Power Plan Pruitt ducked the question and focused on how the plan would cost jobs.	True
This is our issue Beverly said.	This is about social disruption Shepard said.	By fighting for the actual justice and livelihood of working people you are going to create the political energy to actually address climate change she said.	Were hit first and hit worst.	People of color have always been on the front line of this movement Alaina Beverly a former Obama White House urban affairs official who is now vice president for urban affairs at the University of Chicagos Office of Federal Relations in Washington said at the event.	False
His run ins with climate science were repeatedly highlighted in responses to the retweet by thefirst daughter and senior White House adviser.	That is hypocrisy.	Robert Johnson February 21 2019 When you continue to deny climate science you cant make the claim that you are a driver of science policy.	Dawn Amos meh my dogs are the boss of me February 21 2019 You can't believe science in a selective manner and claim to be pro science.	On Wednesday The Washington Post reported that Trump was convening a panel the Presidential Committee on Climate Security to question the findings of federal scientists and experts on climate change andcounter red alert warningsfrom the scientific community.	False
The RFS has proven to be controversial with oil producers deriding the mandate as costly and unneeded.	RELATED New EPA Chief Will Continue Scott Pruitts War With The Corn Lobby During his time leading the EPA Scott Pruitt became an adversary of ethanol proponents after granting more RFS waivers and pushing for a rollback of the law altogether.	Its not immediately clear how the Trump administration will handle the RFS debate moving forward.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True
This meeting in Madrid signals the start of a frantic 12 months of negotiations that will culminate in Glasgow with COP26 in November next year.	This conference of the parties or COP25 was due to be held in Chile but was cancelled by the government due to weeks of civil disturbances.	She added It's a fight to the death for anyone not prepared to flee.	The president of an island nation on the frontline of climate change says it is in a fight to the death after freak waves inundated the capital.	The situation has been made worse because the two strongest cyclones ever to hit the African continent affected the same region just weeks apart.	True
Another pro hunting group says what they are seeing within Interior is a fight between access and conservation.	And the big thing that the secretary hears over and over again is that people just don't have access to land.	Access to our own public lands is a lot harder today than it ever has been and that is in part introduced with the decline in hunting numbers we've seen said Whit Fosburgh president and CEO of the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership a non profit coalition of conservation organizations and outdoor related businesses.	Fosberg's criticism is similar to what environmental groups said following the secretarial order last week.	On the conservation side however I think it's a much less rosy picture Fosburgh said.	False
For opponents of the president the prospect is a daunting one.	Scott Pruitt was the most scandal plagued cabinet member in an administration rife with corruption said Christy Goldfuss an environment advisor to Obama who is now at the Center for American Progress.	I wasnt interested in that.	I am still not interested in that.	Pruitt went about it enthusiastically but ran into legal action launched by states such as New York and California as well as environmental groups.	True
Ten minutes into Griffiths opening speech he was interrupted by a sudden sustained loud volley of laughter by several dozen protesters that was then followed by a single shout of Its not funny and then a series of chants of Keep it in the ground and Shame on you.	After the protesters were led away by security guards Griffiths said In the US our policy is not to keep it in the ground but to use it as cleanly and efficiently as possible.	None of the panelists would be drawn on the study but Griffith spoke out against alarmism that he claimed displaced pragmatic solutions to address environmental concerns with prescriptive regulations that put jobs at risk and raised costs for consumers.	This was the second consecutive year that the Trump team was heckled after promoting fossil fuels and nuclear power at the climate talks underscoring how the US position has shifted since the president took power in 2017.	Made up of city and state level governments business executives and religious leaders the Were still in group is staging dozens of events in a bid to show action is still possible without White House support.	False
Mother Jonesasked an expert to decipher this nonsense and you can read his analysis here.	But the Department of the Interior disputes this in an email to Mother Jones saying The Secretary addressed the correlation between climate and fires dozens of times over the 48 hours he was in California and all week in interviews since returning.	Additionally in his op ed the Secretary directly addressed longer hotter drier seasons in the opening paragraphs.Its true that Zinke changed his tuneafter his earlier comments Zinke told reportersThursday that climate change has played a role in the fires and that global temperatures are rising.	In itthe service writes Of particular concern are longer fire seasons and the rising size and severity of wildfires along with the growing risk to lives homes natural resources and other values.	Its a breath of fresh air to see science instead of politics inserted into forest and fire management saidKirin Kennedy associatelegislative director for lands and wildlife at the Sierra Club in a statement.	False
Im perfectly willing to take on giant corporations.	Its highly explosive.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	Its a danger to the air we breathe.	Jay Inslee D ahead of CNNs town hall.	True
Vivian Stockman of the Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition was protesting outside Trumps rally.	Meanwhile our people are being poisoned she said.	Our state is beholden to coal.	At his public announcement Trump said Im getting rid of some of these ridiculous rules and regulations which are killing our companies and our jobs.	Our politicians are beholden to coal.	False
The drilling issue has created strange political bedfellows along the East Coast with Democrats and Republicans in some areas united over the issue.	Voters said they had been turned off by what they saw as Arrington's flip flop on the issue and they turned instead to Cunningham's consistency.	The government doesn't get to pick winners and losers in this thing Mace said.	The governor and Attorney General Alan Wilson have resolved to continue working together to determine the best path forward Symmes said.	South Carolina Gov.	True
Conflicts exacerbated by drought heat and storms are a major concern for defense planners.	However Lengyel waffled on humanitys role in shaping the climate behind these storms.	Whatever the reason we have to be ready to deal with them.	I dont know why he said.	Either there was a plan in place to deal with an unprecedented storm at Tyndall and it wasnt followed or there wasnt one and were already seeing the consequences.	True
Speaking at an eventcommemoratingMartin Luther King Day that monthOcasio Cortez asserted thatclimate change constituted our World War II and added Millennials and people you know Gen Z and all these folks that will come after us are looking up and were like The world is gonna end in 12 years if we dont address climate change and your biggest issue is how are we gonna pay for it?'	On Twitter Monday Ocasio Cortez reposted a claim from one of her advisersRobert Hockett arguing that in this case size matters and that the problems the Green New Deal addresses require solutions where bigger is better imperative and paraodixcally more affordable.	And Paul Bledsoe a strategic adviser at the Progressive Policy Institute said progressives were overcompensating.	In January White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders derided Ocasio Cortez'srecent claim that theworld will end in 12 yearsdue to climate change andsuggested the Trump administration has little need for the progressive firebrand'sthoughts in general.	Several other Democrats announced guests apparently intended to highlight their opposition to various Trump administration policies while Trump himself extended invites to the family of a couple allegedly murdered by an illegal immigrantand a child bullied at school for having the last name Trump.	True
Published with permission of The American Independent.	And in the House Rep. Thomas Massie R KY made a viral fool of himself by attacking former Secretary of State John Kerry after he tried to raise concerns about how climate change would harm national security.	Trumps recently installed EPA chief dismissed a study from his own department's scientists about the dangers of climate change and then admitted he never even read the study in the first place.	The administration and its officials regularly disregard the scientific consensus about the harms of climate change in order to justify rolling back regulations and trashing initiatives designed to make the world cleaner and safer.	It is a threat to America and to all of humanity.	True
After the fighting ended a stalemate remained as international mediation efforts were made to resolve their dispute.	The enmity between the two countries that occupy the Horn of Africa came after a border war fought between 1998 and 2000.	The two countries disputed their border in the scrubby and desolate plains of Badime.	But head activism has led to criticism from from world leaders and others who allege she is being manipulated.	She raged People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing we are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and the fairy tale of endless economic growth.	True
The administration moves to rescind California's authority are likely to prompt legal battles.	That's a false choice and it's one that you've talked about Mr. President.	The purpose of this letter is to put California on notice that this framework agreement appears to be inconsistent with federal law the letter said.	When President George W. Bush challenged California's greenhouse gas emissions and mileage setting ability California fought it in the courts.	The Trump administration is challenging California over the state's new automotive emissions and fuel economy framework agreement with automakers insisting setting such standards is the federal government's role.	True
Bolling Williams who was invited to Pruitt's meeting said Pruitt listened to all of our concerns but he did not offer any solutions.	One week ago the local chapter of the NAACP said it invited Pruitt to a roundtable discussion on environmental justice which happened Wednesday morning.	The NAACP presented Pruitt with a list of demands including a call for an executive order that would include a greater commitment to communities like East Chicago.	Administrator Pruitt was working for environmental justice by meeting with the real residents affected by lead contamination and by committing to get results.	Pruitt skipped that event and instead invited a group to a meeting of his own at a local school that was shut down as a result of the lead contamination in the community.	True
It can be summed up in one word confusion.	Sometimes it appears to be a result of ineptitude other times it appears to be tactical.	It was the latest example of the bewilderment Trump has created about whether or not the worlds second biggest source of climate altering pollution plans to do anything about it.	Other history contradicts the idea that the United States signed onto an out of balance deal.	He announced an extreme position but hinted he was willing to negotiate.	False
Instead there is an administration wide reluctance to avoid the topic altogether.	I think that measuring with precision human activity on the climate is something very challenging to do and there's tremendous disagreement about the degree of impact Pruitt said in a CNBC interview in March .	Washington CNN President Donald Trump spent an hour Thursday talking about his commitment to economic growth and national stability as he announced the decision to back out of the Paris Climate Accord.	They are complaining about uncertainty but at the same time increasing uncertainty by cutting back on ways to measure climate change.	For many the administration's reluctance to deal with the idea of climate change comes down to one thought that economic growth and climate awareness cannot go hand in hand.	True
Over lunch at a conference last week Flint staked out his opposition to the Obama administrations use of executive authority to regulate carbon dioxide emissions.	Asked where the line is between what critics said was the previous administrations federal overreach and attempting to stave off the worst of what the IPCC predicted Flint went quiet for a while.	In a surprise move Gov.	Last yearSens.	A former Trump transition team official he described himself as a sherpa for Interior Secretary Ryan Zinkes confirmation process.	True
One hardly knows where to begin in taking apart an argument that is literally filled with errors fallacies inconsistencies and non sequiturs.	The essay by Nathan Schneider appearing in the May 31 issue of America titled Trumps war on the environment is a war on the young and the unborn makes the incredible case that withdrawing from the Paris agreement constitutes a war on future generations tantamount to genocide.	Perhaps Mr. Schneider should consider what a war on the environment would actually look like.	Pouring toxic waste into rivers filling the air with noxious fumes polluting forests and open countrysidethese are signs of a war on the environment and sadly they can still be found in certain nations.	To judge a particular accord as contrary to the nations interests on the other hand is hardly a war on the environment.	True
My action today will cut through the destructive permitting and denials Trump said during the signing of the executive orders at the International Union of Operating Engineers International Training and Education Center a union run facility in Crosby Texas.	While the move was greeted warmly by members of the countrys oil and gas industries it is likely to rankle some more traditional conservative lawmakers including several Republican governors worried about the federal government impinging on individual state rights and governance.	The White House has sought to stave off any discord by arguing that the order is not meant to take power away from the states but to ensure that state actions follow the intent of the Clean Water Act.	Environmental groups described Trump's order as an effort to short circuit a state's ability to review complicated projects putting at risk a state's ability to protect drinking water supplies and wildlife.	The groups said in an April 5 letter that individual states shouldn't be able to use provisions of the Clear Air Act to dictate national policy thereby harming other states and the national interest and damaging cooperative federalism.	False
As for the water it's Trump vs. the Delta smelt an endangered fish scientists argue can only be saved if the dammed waters are allowed to flow into the ocean instead of being used to irrigate the farms and homes of California residents.	It's hard not to think there's an element of spite in this rhetoric as wealthy and influential Californians led talk of secession following Trump's 2016 election victory.	While she has worked for the department since 2013 environmentalists accuse her of gutting protections for migratory birds and endangered species.	It's not a good week for the Delta smelt.	US President Donald Trump is taking California to task for the management of its forests and dams blaming red tape for the devastating forest fires and drought plaguing the bluest of blue states and threatening to withhold aid.	False
One of the biggest legal battles over climate change is now in limbo pending a decision from the Supreme Courts chief justice who last week took the odd step of halting the lawsuit to consider a stay.	Now the case is back at the Supreme Court and what happens next is unclear including whether the other justices on the bench will weigh in.	But last week the defendant the US government asked for a stay of the case arguing the costs of litigation would put an undue burden on it.	The local governments are citing nuisance statutes and seeking money from oil companies to pay for damages caused by climate change whereas the childrens case is trying to force the government to enact policies to curb greenhouse gas emissions.	The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate.	False
WildEarth Guardians Physicians for Social Responsibility and the Western Environmental Law Center sued the BLM in 2016 for failing to calculate and limit the amount of greenhouse gas emissions from future oil and gas projects.	The Western Energy Alliance one of the defendants in the case also did not respond to a request.	The decision stems from an environmental lawsuit.	The decision is the first significant check on the climate impact of the Trump administrations energy first agenda that has opened up vast swaths of public land for mining and drilling.	The judge is basically asking BLM to take a wild guess on how many wells will be developed on leases prematurely.	False
The question is what are we going to do about it and at what cost?	pic.twitter.comixO6VhRhrO Rep. Ted Deutch April 10 2017 Thune told Fox News anchor Chris Wallace in a 2014 interview for example Well look climate change is occurring it's always occurring Chris.	What won't solve the problem is putting our heads in the Florida sand while streets and basements flood around us she said in a statement.	Thanks for this hearing.	Not that surprising except this was a Senate committee field hearing challenging the position shared by President Donald Trump and many Republicans in Congress that climate change isn't real.	False
Todays decision is a disappointing continuation of a historic pattern Other people get all the profits and the tribes get all the risk and harm said Jan Hasselman an Earthjustice attorney representing the tribe in an ongoing federal lawsuit through which Standing Rock and three other tribes still hope to shut down the pipeline.	Boasberg said he will hear arguments on the matter.	The tribe is among four that have challenged the pipeline in court over environmental fears that ETP says are unfounded.	The judge said the Corps also didnt adequately study how the pipeline might disproportionately affect the tribal community a concept known as environmental justice.	The Corps must simply connect the dots he said.	False
Activists freshly galvanized by the hellscape images of Californias deadliest wildfire seem primed for action and the partys progressive wing has signaled a new willingness to force a more serious debate over an issue thats remained stagnant in the House for much of the past decade.	Last week youth activists with the grassroots climate group Sunrise Movement staged sit ins in the offices of House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi D Calif. and Rep. Frank Pallone D N.J. the likely next chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee who opposed the creation of a select committee on a Green New Deal.	Seventy one percent of major televised debates in the 2018 midterm elections ignored the issue completely.	We need millions of people all over this country to stand up and demand fundamental changes in our energy policy in order to protect our kids and our grandchildren and the planet Sanders told HuffPost by phone.	If you think of Bernie youd think hed be talking about inequality or civil rights.	False
The Air Force denied Rio Linda Elvertas claim in a May 9 letter before the district sued in federal court on June 30.	Plaintiffs argued that as far back as 1984 McClellan had burn and burial pits trenches and unlined ponds and ditches contaminated with chemicals.	They knew or should have known that this harmful compound would reach groundwater pollute drinking supplies render drinking water unusuable and unsafe and threaten the public health and welfare stated the complaint which claims an underground storage tank likely held the chemical.	At contention is whether the cancer causing chemical hexavalent chromium or chromium 6 came from the base which was designated a federal Superfund site in 1987 for 326 contaminated sites identified for cleanup.	Plaintiffs argue that the chemicals have been found in groundwater under the base as high as 840 parts per billion six times higher than levels that decrease away from the air base.	False
Environmentalists were obviously outraged by Pruitts decision.	Environmentalists fought to keep the rule in place and Pruitt can expect legal challenges if EPA tries to repeal the ELG rule.	UWAG and others argued the rule violated the Clean Water Act and Administrative Procedures Act.	Pruitt was responding to a petition sent by the Utility Water Action Group UWAG urging the Trump administration to rescind its Effluent Limitations Guidelines for coal fired power plants.	To an unprecedented extent the Agency withheld fundamental information purporting to justify the Rule UWAG argued adding that included pages of the record that demonstrably were not entitled to confidential treatment.	False
Once again Pruitt took the question as an opportunity to criticize the Obama administration saying that in the past there has been a lack of commitment to state partnership.	Watch the interview below via YouTube.	Pruitt was pretty steadfast in his position then however on Sunday he was forced to entertain the possibility that he might be wrong during an interview with Fox Newss Chris Wallace.	And the question I have is what if youre wrong?	Realizing that he wasnt going to get anywhere with Pruitt on that particular issue Wallace switched gears slightly to ask a final question about the Trump administrations proposed cuts to the EPA.	False
Democratic Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon the amendments author said on Twitter on Thursday Despite dangerous decision unwillingness to act we can will fight back to combat The amendment passed 16 14.	In a diplomatic cable that Reuters obtained last month Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said U.S. diplomats should sidestep questions from foreign governments on how the United States plans re engage in the global Paris climate agreement.	L1N1KU0UP	The amendment passed even though the 2018 budget proposal that Trump a Republican introduced earlier this year eliminated support of any mechanism to finance climate change projects in developing countries and organizations.	The cable also said diplomats should make clear that the United States wants to help other countries use fossil fuels which have been linked to global warming.	False
Combined with drought insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality the op ed continues.	But theres been a change in fire behavior over the last century as the state and federal government began dousing the blazes.	Jerry Brown partnered with state lawmakers to introduce changes to the states policies.	California Democratic Gov.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	False
Whether those claims should be handled in court presents substantial grounds for difference of opinion the court said then.	The Justice Departmentobjected to the time and expense claiming that the issue was one for Congress not the courts to resolve.	Its objections were first raised during the Obama administration.	This suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions Solicitor General Noel Francisco argued in court papers.	The justices had expressedmisgivings about the lawsuitin July when they refused to stop the legal process but said the breadthof theclaims was striking.	False
This is a challenge of epochal proportions he said Saturday.	Energy experts and those who advocate fighting climate change expressed doubts before the conference that it would amount to anything other than a PR opportunity for the companies to burnish their image without making meaningful changes.	The pope said meeting the energy needs of everyone on the planet must be done in ways that avoid creating environmental imbalances resulting in deterioration and pollution that is gravely harmful to our human family both now and in the future.	Francis said that modern society with its massive movement of information persons and things requires an immense supply of energy.	He said it was disturbing and a cause for real concern that the levels of carbon dioxide emissions and the concentrations of greenhouse gases remain high despite commitments taken in the 2015 Paris accord to fight global warming.	False
It's a problem you get with these very social animals that tend to for reasons we have never been clear on end up following either a sick leader onto the beach or end up getting lost as a group Dr Brownlow says.	We think that was because one of the females was having trouble giving birth and was in a lot distress he explains.	While the exact reasons remain unclear experts say many different factors could play a part.	It means that if one pilot whale encounters a problem then it can have an impact on the entire group.	This particular species seems to be very prone to that herd behaviour.	False
Republican lawmakers worried the Obama era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers.	The resolution calls for aWorld War II style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Certainly environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of peoples diets in the name of the climate but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health.	False
Lately he has been tussling with New York Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio Cortez over the Green New Deal an ambitious piece of environmental legislation that seeks to dramatically overhaul Americas energy sector and economy in a bid to slash carbon output.	Greenpeace founder turned climate change skeptic Patrick Moore has reignited his feud with Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio Cortez calling her a pompous little twit and garden variety hypocrite in a barrage of tweets.	Moore began picking the Green New Deal apart in February ridiculing its promise to remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere.	The legislation has been ridiculed from all sides for its proposed abolition of air travel and fossil fuel powered vehicles as well as its estimated cost of over 50 trillion over twice the worth of the entire US economy.	After referring to AOC as a raving lunatic President Donald Trump said on Saturday that the deal is the new Democrat platform and I dont want to talk them out of it...I want them to embrace this plan.	False
But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Like this story?	Viewers called him out for rambling incoherent answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry.	But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding commented another.	False
ETC has focused its activism on the Paris climate agreement which President Obama signed onto without Senate approval.	The chief avenue the group advocates to cut global warming is to force governments around the world to place an ever growing tax on carbon emissions as a means to force change in energy policy.	Trump has also begun considering whether or not to completely pull out of the agreement.	Trumps Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt has urged the president to exit the agreement and at least one climate scientist Dr. Duane Thresher has warned Trump not to cave in to his daughters climate change madness.	According to the ETC website the groups goal is to accelerate change towards low carbon energy systems that enable robust economic development and limit the rise in global temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius.	False
Though ultimately unsuccessful those efforts illustrated a push to establish stability amid unsettling crisis a goal Marshall shared.	The socialist sobriquet stokes ideological fires but douses historical understanding.	When massive problems develop cross jurisdictional lines and are associated with market failures big government responses can seem like the only possible solution.	TheGreen New Dealand its proponents aim to tackle the intertwined issues of social and environmental justice in our age of anthropogenic climate change.	One prominent exampleBob Marshalls argument for nationalizing forests during the 1930sreveals how socialist solutions emerge from specific contexts and problems not ideological bunkers.	False
This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you me and the whole world.	Meet the trees get to know their superpowers and learn how scientists are trying to protect them.	And so what happens to these forests truly affects all life on Earth.	We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster not just locally but globally.	False
At that point coal was becoming an unprofitable investment and banks faced mounting pressure from environmentalists to stop supporting the dirtiest fuels in the lead up the Paris climate agreement.	Even though were going to have this policy in place doesnt mean at the same time well right away cut all the clients that dont fall under it Mylene Benmoussa a BNP Paribas spokeswoman told HuffPost by phone on Wednesday.	In June three human rights groups accused BNP Paribas of complicity in the 1994 Rwandan genocide that killed more than 800000 people.	The trio includes the San Francisco based Rainforest Action Network the French chapter of Friends of Earth and Save the Rio Grande Valley from Liquefied Natural Gas a local Texas group protesting the construction of a liquefied natural gas terminal in the states southern region.	In 2015 the company was ordered to pay 8.9 billion to the U.S. for violating sanctions against Sudan Cuba and Iran.	False
Though not as controversial or ethically compromised as PruittWheeler is opposed by a number of environmental groups who sharply criticize the president's aggressive efforts to undo Obama era rules they say are designed to protect the environment and address climate change.	While calling Wheeler certainly qualified for this position Collins said some of the policies he has proposed as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	It's a sad day for public health and the EPA but missionaccomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries Ken Cook president of the Environmental Working Group said in a statement following the vote.	As you can see we're continuing the president's agenda post haste.	And his agency finalizedrevisions to a 2015 Obama era rule regulating thedisposal of coal ashthat gives states and utilities what he called much needed flexibility to manage their waste.	False
He says times are tough for dairy farmers so this gives him a new stream of revenue.	So here's one solution to the problem Dairy farmers in Massachusetts are using food waste to create electricity.	It's an industrial strength grinder that gobbles up all the scraps of food the store can't sell explains Karen Franczyk who is the sustainability program manager for Whole Foods' North Atlantic region.	This turns a big generator which is creating one megawatt of electricity continuously Melnik says enough to power more than just his farm.	which has installed a Grind2Energy system.	False
Put together Pruitt's moves some of which have been challenged in court represent an attempt to fundamentally restructure the EPA's role in Washington and are a sharp rebuke of the environmental legacy of former President Barack Obama.	Pushing to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord Pruitt pushed the White House to leave the Paris climate deal stood beside the President in the Rose Garden when he announced the decision and after the President spoke offered his own remarks.	The move was condemned by global leaders and was seen by many as a setback to efforts to address global warming.	The weakening of automobile standards which is a win for car manufacturers and a blow to environmentalists also sets up a fight between the Trump administration and the state of California which says it plans to stick with the stricter rules.	Here are some of Pruitt's key changes Like others in the Trump administration Pruitt has repeatedly highlighted uncertainty about the role that humans have played in global warming a view that is at odds with the vast majority of scientific evidence.	False
The controversy reemerged after the first round of Democratic debates last week.	I cannot rule out any other debate that would highlight both the necessity of defeating the climate crisis and calling for the candidates to step up to the plate Inslee said in an interview with Mother Jones.	In April climate activistslaunched a grassroots campaign demanding that one of the debates be dedicated to climate they noted that presidential debate moderators had a long history of giving short shrift to the issue.	Climate received 15 minutes of discussion over two nights but the largely superficial discussion of the issue only seemed to strengthen the activists case as key policy proposals such as the Green New Deal and 100 percent renewable energy mandates were virtually ignored.	ORourkes campaign did not respond to a request for comment in time for publication to confirm Youth Climate Strikes tweet Booker supports more climate change discussion but the campaign toldMother Jones that the decision is in the hands of the DNC.	False
Every Earth Day we are treated to theatrical images of marches featuring unhinged activists demanding action on a range of environmental issues.	Only the sacrifices made by others will make a difference.	That gap between the Lefts loud talk and their unwillingness to make personal sacrifices is not an accident.	In a video that was shared widely including by celebrities such as James Corden the British writer argues that the only way to help the environment is to change the big structural political economic stuff.	Why progressives refuse to live by their own Earth Day bluster George Monbiot recently expressed a carefully calibrated environmental message that allows people on the environmental left to feel self righteous without making any real sacrifice.	False
In 2016 Mr. Schneiderman and the Securities and Exchange Commission announced a 154 million settlement with Barclays and Credit Suisse to resolve allegations that the banks had permitted traders to misuse their dark pool platforms.	Mr. Schneiderman over the past year has positioned himself at the vanguard of legal challenges by state attorneys general to the Trump administrations efforts to roll back regulation especially environmental rules.	for failing to properly control methane pollution a greenhouse gas.	His legal team was one of the first in the nation to target banks for sponsoring nontransparent trading platforms called dark pools which allowed high speed trading firms to take advantage of investors.	Last month he and more than a dozen states sued the E.P.A.	False
Since they lost seats in the Senate Democrats emphasized key state level disputes like the fight between California and the EPA over fuel economy standards.	At a few points the hearing was interrupted by protesters and chants of shut down Wheeler not the EPA.	I would not call it the greatest crisis no sir Wheeler responded.	I consider it to be an issue that has to be addressed globally.	Some Republicans raised concerns about climate change as well.	False
Strike organizers have a list of demands that includes respect of indigenous land sustainable agriculture protecting biodiversity environmental justice and a just transition away from fossil fuels and towards renewable energy said 17 year old Baltimore resident and organizer Nadia Nazar.	But his idea of what that means is very different than the activists' vision.	Graves got immediate push back from the young activists including 17 year old Jamie Margolin from Seattle who asked how Graves will respond to questions from his children and grandchildren about whether he did enough to address climate change.	There have been similar student events in the past year.	I'm bothered by the lack of movement to make meaningful advances to solve the climate crisis says Lufrano Jardine.	False
Or so it has been for thousands of years.	another clear sign that the biology of the planet is changing as a result of warming temperatures said Professor Dan Charman of the University of Exeter who led the research project.	Dr. Matt Amesbury also of the University of Exeter said there were two main findings to take from their new study scale and temperature sensitivity Before now studies have been from single sites but using a transect of sites weve been able to show that this significant response to climate change is pervasive across the whole of the Antarctic Peninsula.	surprised us was just how rapid the changes have been and the fact that they are very unusual when compared with growth rates in the late 19th and early 20th century.	A Green Island moss bank with icebergs.Credit Matt Amesbury Antarctica is a cold white continent at the bottom of the world.	False
One found that avoiding meat and dairy products was the single biggest way to reduce an individuals environmental impact on the planet.	This joint experiment marks a significant first step toward achieving our vision to ensure food security for generations to come while preserving our natural resources.	The development marks a further step forward for a nascent industry that aims to provide people with real meat without the environmental impact and welfare problems of intensive livestock production.	We can potentially provide a powerful solution to produce the food closer to the population needing it at the exact and right time it is needed.	The Israeli food technology startup Aleph Farms grew the meat on the International Space Station 248 miles 399 km away from any natural resources.	False
The meeting was just the latest in a series of public moves the pope has made against traditional forms of electricity production.	Energy and investment executives who met with Pope Francis earlier in June stood mostly in agreement that a tax on carbon emissions is the best path forward to combating climate change.	That is more than 21000 in income loss per family a portion of the letter read.	Ernest Moniz who served as an energy secretary under the Obama administration took part in the summit and said one of the areas of focus was carbon pricing to create market incentives for the transition to a low carbon system.	Pope Francishosted a two day summit at the Vatican on June 8 and 9 inviting key players in the oil and gas industry for a back and forth discussion on climate change.	False
Theyre trying to dictate to the world how much coal is used.	Youre right there could very well be a new generation coming up saying thats the only environmental issue and its not he said.	Yes climate is an issue and we are working to address it but I think water is a bigger issue he said.	He also said that California is playing politics in its fight with the EPA to preserve its more stringent vehicle emission standards as the national standard.	Wheeler said he believes climate change is a problem but that it had been overblown by former President Barack Obamas administration at the expense of other bigger issues like water quality.	False
I think some kind of major flood happened all over the world and it left an indelible imprint on the collective memory of mankind that got preserved in these stories.	In the Epic of Gilgamesh waters so overwhelm the mortals that the gods grow frightened too Gillis wrote In Indias version Lord Vishnu warns a man to take refuge in a boat carrying seeds.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Models can be useful tools to test complex climate interactions but they are still projections not facts.	I dont think the biblical deluge is just a fairy tale Terence Hughes a retired glaciologist told Gillis.	False
She appeared to contradict herself a few sentences later telling the audience that the intent is really to eliminate the oil industrys license to operate.	Amrons admission will likely create challenges forthe citys appeal which is slated to begin in front of the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals soon.	Manufacturers and conservative groups worry trial attorneys are behind the spat of climate litigation.	Neither Amron nor New York Citys Law Department have responded to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for an explanation about the lawsuit is designed to hammer the oil industry or for mitigation purposes.	Andreally what were trying to do is affect the bottom line the financial equation for the use of fossil fuels she said.	False
What does this all mean for humanity?	Our blog often features stories about efforts to improve life for this planet's 7 billion inhabitants How to make sure everyone has access to clean water and power medical care to stay healthy enough income to feed their kids education for the children so they can fulfill their potential.	But he cautions against concluding that there's simply no way for everyone to enjoy a decent life without destroying the planet.	The hope was to find at least a few examples of countries that were simultaneously delivering the good life to their citizens while staying within their per capita boundaries for environmental damage in other words using natural resources at a rate that would be sustainable even if every person on the planet matched it.	Unfortunately we really didn't find that says O'Neill.	False
It was only about past events.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	It likely stems from an asteroid impact that rocked the Northern Hemisphere and led to the Younger Dryas climate event.	Theres no shortage of ideas about how this happens but its not quite clear how they all fit together.	False
They've got to get an answer to us by Feb. 26 or face the consequences warns Ornstein.	Environmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi this past December.	J. Scott ApplewhiteAP hide caption toggle caption J. Scott ApplewhiteAP Environmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi this past December.	J. Scott ApplewhiteAP For a nonbinding resolution with an uncertain future the Green New Deal Green New Deal FINAL is getting a lot of attention along with a decidedly mixed reaction.	They need to do a whole lot more homework and much more research and analysis before we can ever even really engage in this discussion says Colin Woodall senior vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association.	False
Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget told CNN that climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media.	Trump pulled out of the Paris Climate accords earlier this year and had previously had called climate change a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese.	Trump's comments Thursday go against the hyperbolic language he used in the lead up and aftermath of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma.	Top Trump administration officials have repeatedly dodged questions about how climate change affected the damage done by hurricanes Harvey and Irma saying the issue should be discussed at a later date.	And both FEMA administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering when asked Tuesday whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of the storms.	False
That never materialized.	Asked about the global warming meeting during a photo op with Merkel the president said 'Were having it in a little while.'	Trump started the morning behind schedule.	His meeting with Merkel was delayed about two hours.	He had no reply to a journalist who informed him that it was already underway.	False
Do you know what?	But before you ring up your grandchildren and warnthem to cancel the marquee theyve booked for their 100th birthday celebrations perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothmans cheery prediction.	Even you.	However he says that by 2100 the world may have tipped into unknown territory.	Second Rothman appears to have given himself so much margin for error as to render his doomsday projection meaningless.	False
Each individual has values good and bad and they often remain in tension with one another.	What makes radical environmentalism and its private jet flying propagators so toxic a cultural beast is how high on its adherents totem pole they are willing to place environmental concerns often over some of the most elemental human needs and desires.	What is most remarkable is the pieces bizarre stance on this debate Petersons primary concern appears to be getting rid of Grandma with as small of a carbon footprint as possible rather than reverence intergenerational remembrance or even concern for the grieving.	When Mary Magdalene anoints Christ with perfumes and oil as a pre burial ritual on a night leading up to His execution a livid Judas berates her gesture protesting that the money used to buy the perfume could have been spent on the poor.	That statement not only describes Judass moral disorder but also reminds the audience that any concern holy as it may be poverty reduction environmental protection or any other earthly mission that does not give a preferential deference to God His creation and acts of beauty such as that of Mary Magdalene are sure signs of misaligned priorities.	False
We can debate the issues we can have different viewpointsbut we should all be able to objectively examine the data and look at the evidence ... Now is not the time to turn a blind eye to what science is telling us that climate change and other factors are influencing the health of this estuary ...	Analysis Is the war on coal really over?	It informs decision makers.	Scientific evidenceand input iscrucial to policy efforts.	So there is no reason for it to have to be this way.	False
Then he said decide and history will judge the decisions.	Weeks later Mr. Trump pulled out of the agreement.	First up the paper featured more odd respect for religion from its colorful left wing reporter Jason Horowitz in Pope in the Air Puts Foot Down on Climate Change Denial and DACA Reversal.	But in Washington where science is increasingly political the fact that oceans and atmosphere are warming and that the heat is propelling storms into superstorms has become as sensitive as talking about gun control in the wake of a mass shooting.	When the Times doesnt challenge a pro life message better read closely.	False
To Janet this is a moral issue.	Lets take a closer look at this.	So from that July day in 2008 Jordan waged his own war on the environment Voting to bar greenhouse gasses from Clean Air Act rules voting against enforcing limits on carbon dioxide global warming pollution against tax incentives for renewable electricity and energy conservation against curtailing subsidies for oil and gas company exploration but voting in favor of opening the Outer Continental Shelf to oil drilling.	I then reflected upon Anderson Coopers infamous April 17 2018 CNN interview of Jim Jordan.	These were matters that we have historically agreed on if for no other reason than the sake of our children and grandchildrens future.	False
Its pure unadulterated selfishness.	Trump and Pruitt and others of their ilk might have greed and corruption as motives.	And there you have it.	Get real.	The equation that is most dangerous according to Jeffrey Kluger of Time is n1 otherwise stated as If it matters to me it counts.	False
We would work it out.	No.	They make surrounding communities less healthy and less safe.	Its highly explosive.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	False
The right wing populist Bolsonaro who has shown disdain for protecting the Amazonhome to 3 million species of plants and animals and 1 million or so peoplecame to power in January.	Last monththe far right president accused Inpes director of lying about the scale of deforestationin the Amazon and trying to undermine the government.	The sudden spike has prompted renewed concern that the destruction of the Amazon basin is the result of right wing President Jair Bolsonaros environmental policies that dont give much thought to the environment at all.	The Amazon is burning at an alarming rate in Brazil with 72843 fires detected so far this year by the countrys space research center INPE.	Now I am Nero setting the Amazon aflame he said.	False
Diplomats from rich nations emerging giants and the world's poorest countries each for their own reasons found fault with a draft agreement put forward by host Chile in a botched attempt to strike common ground.	I have never seen such a disconnect between what the science requires and the people of the world demand versus what the climate negotiations are delivering Alden Meyer strategy and policy director at the Union of Concerned Scientists told AFP.	The difference between the youth on the streets and the negotiations is that the youth on the streets are acting with urgency she told AFP.	Faced with fire alarm warnings from science deadly extreme weather made worse by climate change and weekly strikes by millions of young people negotiations in Madrid were under pressure to send a clear signal that governments were willing to double down in tackling the crisis.	Veteran observers of UN climate talks were stunned by the state of play nearly 24 hours after the negotiations had been due to close.	False
The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed.	If Paris streets burned over a proposed25 cents per gallon climate change tax imagine the global conflagration over a 49 per gallon tax.	Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of deniers.	Why?	Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	False
