This followed an article published byNewsweek in which two psychologists mused on the human taboo against cannibalism noting thatphilosophers have argued that burying the dead could be wasteful in the context of the fight against world hunger.	Cannibalism for the climate thats how far theyve gone!	Population control is another solution embraced by geniuses on the left.	Absent from Bernies argument in favor of curbing the population was an acknowledgment of what itll do to the economy and public services two things that the socialist senator allegedly cares about.	This dystopian idea attracted attention recently after Bernie Sanders brought it up at the last Democrat presidential debate saying people need to be need to curb population growth.	True
The authors conclude that 'national security can and must be pursued with an approach that preserves our natural heritage.'	One of its authors a leading professor from Stanford condemned the US border wall project branding it a 'crime against biodiversity'.	ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The bordersis an ecological theatre where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays.	ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The borderis an ecological theater where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays.	Some of the recommendations include Following existing environmental laws taking action to mitigate ecological harm and forgoing physical barriers in particularly sensitive areas.	False
Like this story?	Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers.	Trump is selling off our oceans and selling out coastal communities and marine life to the oil industry said Kristen Monsell oceans program legal director at the Center for Biological Diversity.	The Center for American Progress a left leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement saying in a statement that offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources.	he said.	False
Thats why we need a to fundamentally transform our society Markey added.	The world must wake up.	Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and Sen. Ed Markey retweeted links to a report signed by more than 11000 scientists who argue that the population must be stabilizedand ideally gradually reducedwithin a framework that ensures social integrity.	So must the solution.	Citizens generally are more concerned about getting a good education obtaining better healthcare and achieving political freedoms than they are tackling climate change according to a 2015 survey from the United Nations.	False
Driven by an anti immigrant agenda the Trump administration is callously putting construction of an environmentally and culturally destructive border wall above water resources for communities on both sides of the border federally protected lands clean air and the lives of hundreds of endangered species all while turning a blind eye to the vital relationships of cross border communities and our longstanding values as a nation she said in a statement.	Trump wants to scare people into letting him ignore the law and endanger wildlife and people Brian Segee an attorney with the Center for Biological Diversity said in a statement.	Trumps wall is a divisive symbol of fear and hatred and it does real harm to the landscape and communities.	Despite sidestepping these laws DHS is committed to responsible environmental stewardship and will continue to assess potential impacts coordinate with relevant stakeholders and to the extent possible offset or mitigate potential impacts department spokesman Carlos Diaz said in an email to HuffPost.	Between 2005 and 2008 the department invoked that authority five times according to the agency.	False
We cant sit back and just do nothing while people are getting sick and dying especially when you know theres another way.	My message to you Mr. President is that as a public servant and especially as a president your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people Schwarzenegger begins.	The trouble is President Trump would heartily agree with Schwarzeneggers point while perhaps debating the exact statistics.	But this has nothing to do with the Paris climate accord.	Meanwhile he should probably think about terminating that video.	False
Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality.	It declares climate change a national emergency envisions building new solar wind and geothermal power sources across the country and commits 200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	He is bestowing that same name upon his new plan which calls for the United States to eliminate fossil fuel use by 2050.	Mr. Sanders unveiled his proposal one day after Gov.	WASHINGTON Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a 16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet warming greenhouse gases.	False
The numbers don't lie.	What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency.	It is very worrying.	We are still emitting far too much and this needs to be reversed said Erik Solheim head of UN Environment.	Despite the declaration by President Trump that he intends to take the US out of the deal negotiators meeting in Germany will be aiming to advance and clarify the rulebook of the Paris agreement.	False
California Gov.	We're for clean air and water but at the same time we're for reasonable regulations Deputy Interior Secretary David Bernhardt told reporters.	Its bloody combat.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Its bad and how we counteract it is with a climate summit with normal people respecting the truth and communicating that with other normal people and combating the President of the United States in what are lies distortions and quite frankly bizarre behavior.	False
Formerly owned by Hollywood legend Marlon Brando who was keen that it should become an ecological haven it has now developed in to a hideaway for the rich and famous seeking conscience soothing holidays that do less harm to the planet.	Technology could help here too.	But you'd be surprised.	It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market but The Brando proves it is possible says Prof Graham Miller who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey.	Led by Dr Herv Bossin of the Institut Louis Malard the programme breeds and releases non biting male mosquitoes infected with a Wolbachia virus that makes wild females who do bite sterile.	False
Theres a resolution that has a dream but theres no bill theres no contents at all.	Both lawmakers were responding to a question asked by Axios Amy Harder during the event.	Republicans on the other hand want to get Democrats on the record in support of a proposal they see as socialism.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	RELATED John Kasich Praises The Green New Deal However Senate Democrats are trying to avoid having to vote on the Green New Deal resolution.	False
My question is Why us?	How are they going to get there?	There are a lot of folks who simply wont do the move.	If we have the most industry and we do the most enforcement and get the greatest results what better way to disembowel the EPA than going after Region 5?	And in a visit last week to East Chicago Indianawhich is grappling with a lead contamination crisis affecting both the water and soil Pruitt reportedly denied to a resident of the town that Region 5 was on the chopping block.	False
Permitting 16 year old children to obtain abortions without parental consent is also on the docket for Virginian Democrats.	21 states that A minor shall be deemed an adult for the purpose of consenting to Medical or health services related to abortion birth control pregnancy or family planning except for the purposes of sexual sterilization.	HB 145 mandates that the Virginia Department of Education come up with school board model policies concerning the treatment of transgender students in public elementary and secondary schools that address common issues regarding transgender students in accordance with evidence based best practices.	Some of the proposed specifics are harmless such as section 3 which says that the developed policies should prevent and respond to bullying and harassment.	Prior to this bill Virginia Code 16.1 241 required minors to have the permission of a guardian before having an abortion.	False
Fox who has clashed with Trump since last year's presidential campaign said the U.S. leader's decision condemns this generation and those to come and would leave a dark legacy just to satisfy your greediness.	Wherever we live whoever we are we all share the same responsibility make our planet great again Macron added.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	The European Union's top climate change official Miguel Arias Canente said in a statement that Trump's decision to leave the Paris accord made it a sad day for the global community adding that the bloc deeply regrets the unilateral decision.	He said I do respect this decision but I do think it is an actual mistake both for the U.S. and for our planet.	True
As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of carbon footprints and preaching renewable energy they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world.	If the human race wants a future that looks like utopia and not dystopia it needs to address such concerns Lagarde said predicting that in 50 years time oil will be a secondary commodity since green energy will have moved into prominence.	Whereas the Paris Climate Accord prates about greenhouse gas emissions it never once mentions the word pollution in the entire 27 pagedocument.	Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today the study found but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwide three times more deaths than from AIDS tuberculosis and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence.	Most signatories Solomon notes in an essay in last Fridays Financial Post are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios.	False
It isnt just a coincidence that this is no longer the reality in our country.	The Obama administration claimed it was in the interest of water quality but it was really about power power in the hands of the federal government over landowners Wheeler said.	The issue has often come down to the definition of navigable waters under the Clean Water Act.	Polluters were allowed to dump toxic waste into our waterways without consequence.	In a Roosevelt Room ceremony with farmers and lawmakers at the time Trump called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation.	False
The ReutersIpsos poll was conducted online in English between June 11 and 14 and gathered responses from 3281 people.	The divergence shows how years of political squabbling over global warming including disputes over its existence have grown deep roots distorting the way Americans view the world around them.	It found that 22 of Republicans reported personally experiencing climate change compared to 60 of Democrats.	For more conservative Americans the link between weather and climate change is not a typical conversation Marlon said.	It has a credibility interval a measure of precision of 2 percentage points up or down.	False
We demand climate action that addresses historic injustices by pricing pollution and investing in solutions that improve economic and environmental conditions in front line communities.	These are the inextricable demands of a resistance as powerful as it is diverse and as strong as it is resilient.	Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people.	Our hope rests not in convincing the willfully ignorant to change their ways but in the coming together of broad based peoples movements prepared to act to take back the initiative moving from resistance to power.	Our policy developed in partnership with mainstream environmental groups labor unions public health organizations and other stakeholders represents some of the best of what a unified national resistance could create Comprehensive equitable action against the biggest existential threat of our generation climate change.	True
Each of these is an outrageous moral failure.	Assuring that all have life liberty and the pursuit of happiness is a fundamental moral commitment that we share as citizens working together for the common good of all people and the whole creation.	The following post written by The Rev.	And still repugnant Republicans put profits over people and stupid over scientific data.	Without a habitable environment that is safe from toxic waste harmful chemicals and dangerous carbon dioxide emissions leading to an ever warming planet how can anyone be assured of life liberty and the pursuit of happiness?	False
Skepticism that fails to account for evidence is no virtue.	However there are also very solid conclusions that are based on decades of research and multiple lines of evidence.	Skepticism and debate are always welcome and are critically important to the advancement of science the letter said.	I think its OK for us to ask questions and be skeptical about information Perry said in response according to a EE News report of the event.	Instead he opted to tell oneyoung lady to sit down and said its OK to be skeptical about information.	False
The law and the Constitution are firmly on our side and we think the judge will agree.'	Department of Homeland Security.	Curiel came to national attention in 2016 when he was presiding over one of the cases against Trump University.	On Friday he heard two and a half hours of arguments and saidthat he was leaning toward deciding he has jurisdiction in a lawsuit that alleges the Trump administration overreached in waiving laws that require environmental and other reviews.	A lawsuit has been filed by the Center for Biological Diversityenvironmental groups and the State of California against theU.S.	False
But were not being given the option of deciding how to do it ourselves.	Theres an issue with that.	Andrew Cuomos support.	It is like 87 percent opposed.	Certainly.	False
Acting Assistant U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Wood said during a hearing before Gleason in November that environmental groups were misinterpreting the intent of the law written in 1953.	U.S. District Court Judge Sharon Gleason in a decision late Friday threw out Mr. Trump's executive order that overturned the bans that comprised a key part of Obama's environmental legacy.	Erik Grafe an attorney with Earthjustice welcomed the ruling saying it shows that the president cannot just trample on the Constitution to do the bidding of his cronies in the fossil fuel industry at the expense of our oceans wildlife and climate.	The American Petroleum Institute a defendant in the case disagreed with the ruling.	In the Atlantic Mr. Obama banned exploration in 5937 square miles of underwater canyon complexes citing their importance for marine mammals deep water corals valuable fish populations and migratory whales.	False
Soros is the director and founder of Open Society and has financed climate crusades in the past.	Several wealthy philanthropic groups such as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund RBF Rockefeller Family Fund RFF and the Open Society Foundations bankrolled large portions of the LA Times report.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Yet in public it vociferously fought regulations and policies that would have limited fossil fuel emissions while publicly questioning the science behind climate change.	The LA Times for its part has failed in the past to disclose itsties with RFF.	False
Most of us would be excited with any life said Mary Voytek an astrobiology senior scientist for NASA.	While questions remain Thursdays news represents an important advance in assessing the habitability of Enceladus Woods Hole Oceanographic Institutions Jeffrey Seewald wrote in a companion article.	Voytek said her money is still on Europa for potential life versus Enceladus since Europa is much older and any potential life there has had more time to emerge.	A press conference viewer asking questions of the scientists via Twitter asked if NASA was talking about bacteria or algae or giant squids.	The findings were reported Thursday in the journal Science by a team from Southwest Research Institute in San Antonio.	False
You have no love or admiration for nature.	Jobs matter!	We stand committed to preserving the natural beauty of our nation.	Public radio show host Al Letson wrote How will you preserve the natural beauty of the land if you dismantle the Nathan Bernard from Brooklyn New York replied on Twitter You say Happy as you prepare to literally blow up the entire earth.	Were going to have safety were going to have clean water were going to have clean air but so many regulations are unnecessary so many are job killing Trump said in March.	False
We should be open to the fact that wealth transfer schemes suggested in the radical policies like the Green New Deal may not be the best path said Shimkus who less than a decade ago deployed Bible verses to dismiss the realities of climate science.	That included 64 percent of Republicans and 57 percent of self described conservative Republicans.	Glamour Rep. John Shimkus R Ill. long a climate change denier who in the past has relied on Bible verses to make his case argued against the Green New Deal at a House hearing on Wednesday.	I guess I can understand if someone has not had a lot of life experience and theyre proposing something thats extremely unrealistic well impossible.	The proposals electrified a static debate that too often ranged from outright denialism of climate change by some to dubious market fixes offered by others.	False
Bahram Fazeli director of research and policy for Communities for a Better Environment a California focused environmental justice group said Harris record on the environment was decent.	Previously as Californias attorney general Harris was charged with protecting the states progressive environmental laws in the courts.	At the same time it is intended to assuage environmental activists worried that she has downplayed climate change on the campaign trail.	Last week for example she came under fire from the Sunrise Movement and other climate change activists when she initially declined to participate in the televised Sept. 4 climate change town hall to attend a fundraiser.	Her biggest environmental victory according to green groups came in 2016 when a grand jury indicted Plains All American Pipeline on criminal charges related to a 2015 oil spill off the coast of Santa Barbara.	False
Im sure theres giant corruption going on.	But Lovelock has since renounced this view.	So saysJames Lovelock 98 one of the worlds pre eminent environmentalists in a wide ranging interview on todays Delingpole podcast for Breitbart.	There is global warming.	Its as stupid as saying you should never go out of your home because if you do theres a chance youll be killed by something or other.	True
This quiet revolution may simply be a welcome return to common sense and realism.	With very few exceptions governments all over the world have fallen into the trap of paying renewable energy scammers on the basis that it is necessary at least politically to be seen to be doing something about climate change Sloan writes before providing readers with an avalanche of economic data to back up her assertion.	The current state of affairs has not only undermined Germanys climate policy but also jeopardizes Germanys international reputation as a climate leader Solomon asserts.	Trudeau now stands almost alone in sincere support of Paris Solomon writes.	Earlier this month the prominent Australian economist Judith Sloan wrote a scathing essay decrying renewable energy as the greatest scam being perpetrated against taxpayers and consumers greater even than Ponzi Madoffor Enron.	False
So Im not sure what he was recommending' he told the San Francisco Chronicle.	He didn't thank the armies of firefighters who are battling the blazes or the nine people who have died in the infernos.	And most engaged in the effort are using chemical flame retardants.	President Donald Trump tweeted Sunday that a series of deadly wildfires hitting California are 'being magnified made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized.'	Two White House spokespersons did not respond to a question Monday about what Trump's tweet meant.	False
He is a flawed character Stephen Lacey editor in chief of the magazine GreenTechMedia said on his podcast The Energy Gang last year.	While Gore has become one of the most prominent advocates for reducing carbon emissions and fighting to reduce the effect of climate change the former vice president has not been immune from claims that his work is not as altruistic as it appears.	Releasing the report on Black Friday is a transparent attempt by the Trump administration to bury this report and continue the campaign of not only denying but suppressingthe best of climate science said study co author Andrew Light an international policy expert at the World Resources Institute.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Gore left the vice presidents residence with a relatively modest net worth of 1.7 million mostly from family farm assets but since the release of his 2006 documentary An Inconvenient Truth and his continuing global tour to preach his message he has amassed a fortune valued at upward of 200 million.	True
The IPCCs report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December.	The report calls for societal changes that are unprecedented in terms of scale in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius the stretch goal of the Paris accord.	Thats less onerous than limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius but still no walk in the park.	In the U.S. Republican lawmakers overwhelmingly passed a resolution opposed to carbon taxes in July.	However its what the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes report released Sunday night sees as a policy option for reducing emissions enough to keep projected warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	True
But there werent human beings that was a different world folks Kerry said.	the former secretary of state asked.	the congressman asked.	Are you serious?	Massie asked.	False
Families where many people have cancer.	These communities need justiceand I will stand with them she added	As Ive traveled this country Ive heard the human stories from frontline communities.	Warren argues that justice plays a massive role in properly addressing the climate change crisis citing studies that suggest that black and Hispanic families are disproportionately affected by air pollution caused by white people Warren calls this phenomenon environmental racism and concludes that environmental injustice is the result of decades of discrimination and environmental racism compounding in communities that have been overlooked for too long.	In this instance it is the Superfund Waste Tax.	False
The migrant caravan from Central America is a recent startling example Gore tweeted Monday.	Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on climate change and the migrant caravan claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence climate change is also playing a part based on an interview with a farmer turned migrant whos crop failed.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Migrants are fleeing violent corrupt countries with poor economies but some environmentalists and journalists claim global warming is also to blame.	Many experts who have seriously examined claims linking climate to violent conflict and mass migrations have found little evidence to support such claims but the media still applied the narrative by linking global warming to Central American migrations.	False
People are suffering.	We are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	People are dying.	While Thunberg was giving a fiery speech at the UNGA Climate Action Summit Trump was speaking at an event about religious freedom.	The environmentalist movement is increasingly convinced that humanity is destroying the planet and has already called for banning the production and consumption of meat outlawing fossil fuels and shuttering down nuclear power plants despite the cost and burden on people that may produce.	False
But the public relations war over how to address it is heating up as both sides navigate an issue expected to be a top issue in the 2020 election.	During Tuesday's hearingNASAEarth Science Division Director Michael Freilich was asked about the scientific integrity of the administration's most recent climate assessment released in November which White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders described as not based on facts.	Lets have conservatives have a discussion instead of being in denial that this is a problem former Ohio GOP Gov.	The report is a comprehensive scientificallyrigorouslyanalysisand assessmentif the availableinformationprimarily from the U.S. government Freilich said.	As we careen toward irreversible environmental tipping points we have no time to waste debating alternative facts only to invest years more reestablishing trust in the real ones Kerry wrote.	True
HAZARD Ky.	The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obamas legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants.	Pruitt was among about two dozen attorney generals who sued to stop President Barack Obamas push to limit carbon emissions.	For Pruitt getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma.	The war on coal is over EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt declared in the coal mining state of Kentucky.	False
Heather McGhee president of the left leaning think tank Demos and the economist Robert Reich called it the most progressive climate equity policy weve seen.	That support cuts across demographics including 75 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 67 percent of people 65 years and older 73 percent of urban dwellers and 67 percent of rural New Yorkers and 74 percent of black people and 69 percent of whites.	The support breaks down similarly across the state with 73 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 61 percent of people 65 and older 71 percent of urbanites and 60 percent of rural people and 75 percent of black people and 64 percent of whites.	Cuomo also signed an executive order last week restoring voting rights to felons on parole and voiced support for legalizing recreational marijuana a policy Nixon made a platform issue in her campaign.	Sixty seven percent of New Yorkers support strengthening enforcement of clean air and water regulations even if it costs U.S. jobs compared to 58 percent nationwide.	False
Fifty one senators decided to put the best interests of taxpayers and the environment first and narrowly saved a rule to limit methane emissions.	For anyone growing cynical watching beltway politics Wednesdays victory on the methane rule was a rare and welcome reminder that common sense can still win out over the deep pockets of the oil and gas lobby.	The better we protect our environment the better we can protect people.	So when a vote to overturn a relatively obscure rule governing oil and gas drilling on public lands failed green groups were understandably jubilant.	The vote was a win for taxpayers a win for the environment a win for national security and a win for democracy.	False
They worship at the altar of nihilistic capitalism.	The cruelty and the idiocy of Donald Trumps presidency does not chiefly lie in his tweets or even his words.	Trump has surrounded himself with people who care far more about the sanctity of fossil fuel profits than the safety of the American people.	Mike Pence wont save you.	Its not just clean drinking water the Trump White House has disregarded.	False
Mowing down a forest to keep the forest from burning is on the crazy side.	But I thought you believed so strongly in the environment.	All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer.	Be the solution not the problem.	I always got your back.	False
2 concern after health care for Iowa caucusgoers in a Monmouth University survey from April.	Greenpeace graded her an A and Sanders an A.	Youth Climate Strike and 18 year old activist Jamie Margolin.	There is no dealing with climate change unless we deal with corruption Gunn Wright said in a video set to be released Thursday afternoon.	On a scale of 200 the Sunrise Movement the group that pushed the Green New Deal into the mainstream scored Warren at 168 and Sanders at 183.	False
There is no other option than victory because without victory there is not survival Inslee said at a press conference Monday.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Washington Democratic Gov.	Now Inslees back with an even more urgent message Adopt policies to tackle global warming or there is not survival.	We have just 59 days to do our part to save our children from an endless cycle of crop killing droughts one year and rivers spilling their banks the next Inslee tweeted in January.	False
It's now crystal clear President Trump is comfortable both ceding the moral high ground and the economic upper hand to countries like China and endangering the future of our planet.	We can and we must do both.	President Trump's decision will prove to be the right course of action and one I fully support.	Future generations will look back on President Trump's decision as one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st century because of the huge damage to our economy our environment and our geopolitical standing.	President Obama made commitments in this deal based off a costly power plan that we knew at the time was on shaky legal ground.	False
It smells like death.	It smells like rotting corpses or carcasses.	In Parrish townspeople are considering rescheduling childrens softball games or playing at fields in other communities to escape the stink.	In an earlier trash saga a barge laden with 3186 tons 2890 metric tons of non toxic paper and commercial garbage from Long Island and New York City wandered the ocean for months in 1987 seeking a place to dump it after plans by a private developer to turn it into methane gas in North Carolina fell through.	The sludge smells of dead rotting animals as well as human waste West Jeffersons attorney said in a lawsuit against Big Sky Environmental LLC.	False
It is unclear if these deaths are recorded in the government total.	Thousands of people had already fled their homes to seek shelter from violence in camps for displaced people.	On Sunday a spokesman for UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said he was appealing for additional resources from the international community to fund the response in the immediate medium and longer term.	It's raining again and the second flight couldn't go.	But attempts to reach those areas had not been entirely successful.	False
In a statement the current chief executive of Exxon Mobil Darren W. Woods said the company was encouraged by the climate groups proposal which aligns closely with our longstanding principles.	Some environmental groups did not accept that explanation on Tuesday.	A company spokesman said the liability component of the plan was not part of the companys decision to endorse it.	Individual supporters include the theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking Steven Chu a secretary of energy under President Barack Obama Michael R. Bloomberg the former New York mayor and the Indian industrialist Ratan Tata.	For this to pass it will have to pass on a bipartisan basis Mr. Halstead said.	False
Because that wealth allows us to take care of people.	Im an environmentalist.	During the climate meeting leaders approved a 20 million aid package to help Brazil and other South American countries address fires engulfing the Amazon rainforest French President Emmanuel Macron Emmanuel Jean Michel MacronTrump says he's 'an environmentalist' after skipping G 7 climate meeting Trump says he'd meet with Iranians under 'right' circumstances Macron US France reached 'very good agreement' on digital tax MORE said.	I want clean air.	I want a wealthy country.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	However not every ecologically minded group is on board with Icebreaker the name of the project.	They submitted their concerns to theU.S.	Wind farms across the globe kill thousands of birds a year that inadvertently fly into their turbines.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False
In so doing the government has deprived the plaintiffs the youngest is 11 years old the right to a safe and stable climate system.	Philip Gregory one of the lead attorneys representing the children filing suit explained that the injunction request is meant to address the urgency of limiting climate change by reducing emissions from fossil fuels immediately.	As Gregory and the other attorneys for the children wrote in their injunction request This injunction is urgently needed because despite long standing knowledge of the resulting destruction to our Nation and the profound harm to these young Plaintiffs Defendants ongoing development of the fossil fuel based energy system is actively harming Plaintiffs and jeopardizing Plaintiffs ability to obtain the full remedy in their case.	No small matter.	With the case currently tied up in appeals the plaintiffs wanted to make sure the current state of affairs with respect to climate change doesnt get worse as the wheels of justice slowly turn.	False
Such research requires a faithful reproduction of events and predictions of the future constrained by subjective choices within computer models.	Advocacy groups package these talking points for easy consumption by journalists who eagerly repeat them.	Anyone trying to score political points after a natural disaster should take a deep breath and review the science first.	These conclusions are hardly controversial in the climate science community.	Some found it ironic that states represented by climate deniers were being pummeled by hurricanes.	False
California Gov.	Republicans and farmers have complained about management of the smelt population for years because precious water was being pumped out to sea instead of going towards other uses including agriculture.	Trump also lambasted policies forcing river water to be diverted during the 2016 campaign.	President Donald Trump blamed bad environmental laws for making wildfires spreading across California much worse in a Sunday tweet.	Trump said at a rally in Fresno that year.	False
Minus 3 is not that far from zero Dr. Romanovsky told the New York Times.	That has all kind of consequences both locally for this region for the animals and the people who live here as well as globally Max Holmes a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska told the New York Times.	Located in high latitudes it covers about 24 percent of the land surface in the northern hemisphere and can be up to 1km thick.	Scientists estimate the thawing could contribute as much as 1.7F 1C to global warming over the next several centuries regardless of what nations do to reduce emissions from burning fossil fuels and other activities.	Holmes led a team of scientists in July to take permafrost cores sediment and water samples from the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge to better understand how thawing permafrost affects the landscape and how much and what mix of greenhouse gases are released.	False
Thats the main thing about getting to the emmissions goal is just how aggressively we have to act in every different sector of our society.	Thats the problem with the U.N. that they come up with these policy ideas that are just La La Land.	a climate change skeptic said of the actions urged by the report.	Theyve said the same thing before Sen. Marco Rubio R Fla. said adding that his responsibility was to balance those interests raised in that report with his states broader economic and security interests.	How is that new?	False
However he pointed to one alarming trend The most volcanism that is going in the world at present is in regions that have only recently lost their glacier covering after the end of the last ice age.	It is something we will have to watch closely Bingham said.	But how many lie below the ice?	We had not expected to find anything like that number.	And the activity of this range could have worrying consequences they have warned.	False
Fossil fuel billionaires have a grip on America's democracy.	California is burning.	But we're going to win.	We're running out of time to act.	pic.twitter.commw6dKSxPVj 350 dot org November 13 2018 Members of the Sunrise Movement responding to Pelosis support in their ownstatement on Twitter said they welcomed her endorsement but added that words arent enough.	False
Taken together they provide a comprehensive platform for clean energy and climate policy that can serve as a golden standard and a beacon of hope for the rest of the planet until common sense returns to the White House.	This summer in the midst of unprecedented chaos and dysfunction in Washington California lawmakers stepped up with a bipartisan solution to one of the most pressing challenges facing our state this nation and the world.	Most importantly policies that directly reduce pollution are our most effective tools to improve public health and quality of life in the most disproportionately impacted communities.	Clean energy isnt just good for the planet its good for consumers monthly utility bills and for the economy.	In fact the challenge before us is a case study in market failures to suggest that market based policies on their own will solve this existential challenge is nave at best.	False
For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	Its a fact.	Its the speed.	So congressman or the congressmans staff heres the hockey stick graph that you guys love to go off thats been debunked.	So congressman its like this in calculus terms.	False
You have in my opinion a Commonwealth that wants to see that.	Virginia Del.	I want to go beyond those issues said Del.	Having gender equality public safety LGBTQ equality gun safety those are the things we should be able to accomplish regardless of whos in charge Only taking care of those things is such a cheap cop out for what a party should stand for.	I will take a balanced approach to governing.	False
Why the push abroad?	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The country reaffirmed its commitment to its Paris commitments after U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order rolling back global warming regulations in late March.	As a responsible developing country Chinas plan determination and policy to tackle climate change is resolute Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang told the Associated Press.	It provides Chinese firms and investors with opportunities to make money off coal projects at a time when thats less politically popular in China.	False
In his Spanish language address to the U.N. agency Francis denounced negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet and the greed for profit.	Thanks to scientific knowledge we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods such as the Paris Accord which sadly some have abandoned he said.	Ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the prerequisites for dealing with world food security Francis also said.	ROME Reuters Pope Francis implicitly criticized the United States on Monday for pulling out of the Paris agreement on climate change praising it as a means to control the devastating effects of global warming.	U.S. President Donald Trump announced the decision in June shortly after visiting the pope a strong supporter of the deal.	False
Not just our children.	The kids are affected the most.	Im concerned because it affects their health.	They have problems breathing.	But its not.	False
Undoing the rule threatens to upend that uniformity.	This is all just another case of this administration wanting to make good on their political rhetoric and in this case not even wanting to make good for our own automakersMcCarthy now the director of Harvard Universitys Center for Health and the Global Environmenttold HuffPost.	Carol Browner who served as the agencys chief from 1993 to 2001 said Pruitt was wrong to cast California as wielding outsize influence over the regulations.	The agency also said it planned to reconsider how climate change factored in to regulation noting that the social cost of carbon and energy security valuation ... should also be updated to be consistent with the literature and empirical evidence.	She noted that the Golden State compromised on a number of rules including a zero emissions vehicle program.	False
The intrigue comes amid growing bad blood between the two sides.	The probe took many twists and turns and seemed to come to a halt shortly after his resignation.RELATEDSEC Investigators Decide Not To Punish Exxon For Alleged Climate Heresy Exxon engaged in a longstanding fraudulent scheme to deceive investors analysts and underwriters concerning the companys management of the risks posed to its business by climate change regulationthe lawsuit notes.	The lawsuitfollows over three years of investigationfirst orchestrated by former Attorney General Eric Schneiderman who resigned in April over abuse allegations from former romantic partners.	Sher who was with Sher Leff at the time allegedPawas group Pawa Law Group failed to distribute money from a settlement in the case.	Hagens Berman and Sher Edlings dramacomes after New York fileda lawsuit in October against Exxon for allegedly downplaying for decades the risk the companys oil products pose on the climate.	False
Opposition MPs have said the raging infernos are a crime against humanity and blamed his policies for fuelling the blazes.	What is being done here is an atrocity against us.	Camila Veiga of the Brazilian Association of NGOs said The fires are the consequence of a policy of environmental devastation of support for agribusiness of increasing pastures.	For us this is destruction.	We need the forest and our children need the forest.	False
Children are powerful drivers of change because they go home and talk to their parents about it says Zana Kontamanoli.	But we've stuck to our guns.	You are really exposed to the reality of the situation when you live by the sea says campaigner Zana Kontamanoli.	A shocking 95 of waste in the Mediterranean is plastic.	Research shows that when recycling is separated people are less likely to just chuck all their waste in and contaminate it says Kontamanoli.	False
Campbell said the evidence shows a fundamental shift in the Earths plants and that global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race.	He says despite the researchers findings which clearly show global warming helps plantsand thus also helping humans and animalsglobal warming has many negative effects too such as causing climate change which will increase flooding of coastal cities extreme weather and ocean acidification.	The study also offered no solutions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions without causing severe economic and social problems for billions of people.	Photosynthesis is the process of converting carbon dioxide into carbohydrates which power plants using sunlight.	In other words more carbon dioxide which is being produced by humans at record levels has improved plant growth which in turn improves food production for humans and animals.	False
Todays climate priests tell people they must cut out their CO2 emissions and pay penances to other nations like China to save our climate.	The people believe them.	Yet he submitted the 93 page report suggesting the research behind human caused climate change is more religion than science.	The people believed them he wrote in a December 2015 blog post.	Aztec priests told people they must cut out their beating hearts to bring better climate for their crops.	True
Well this is the end result of that decision.	Here are the details of this marathon non debate town hall Id rather fall into a 40000 foot deep man made hole in Russia than watch Democrats tell us how were all going to die in 12 years if we dont get rid of fossil fuels.	We told you last week that the DNC refused to allow their 2020 Democratic candidates to debate the issue of Climate Change.	They were afraid that it would end up hurting whichever candidate goes into the general election next year.	Along with the candidates the network also announced the CNN journalists and the approximate appearance times for the presidential hopefuls during the seven hour live event.	False
His decision follows a ruling the judge made in June dismissing both cases on the grounds that Congress not the court system is responsible for addressing the emission of greenhouse gasses.	Whatever sales or events occurred in California werecausally insignificantin the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming.	Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants alleged California activities to plaintiffs harm.	It is manifest thatglobal warming would have continued in the absence of all California related activities of defendants Alsup wrote in his July 27 decision.	Trial lawyers with Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled climate lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings called a contingency fee.RELATED Trial Lawyers Handling Cities Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions Hagens Bermanstood to earn billions of dollarsin contingency fees depending on the total winnings from a favorable judgement against oil companies.	False
Still the policy seems far off at best.	4 priority and voters of color in that age range ranked it No.	3.	In a Gallup poll last month just 1 percent of Americans including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats chose environmentpollution as the countrys most important problem from a list of dozens of issues.	Voters aged 18 29 ranked green jobs as their No.	False
Conservation must remain a way of life.	The 2015 order led environmentalists to complain that the state which leads the nation in production of fruits and vegetables did too little to force farmers to conserve water.	Brown also said the need for conservation continued.	California officials have credited residents for doing their part to conserve water by taking shorter showers and ripping out grass lawns to install landscaping that requires minimal irrigation among other measures.	The drought cost the agricultural economy billions killed an estimated 100 million trees led a half million acres of farmland to be fallowed and deprived some communities of reliable sources of drinking water.	False
The report is not without its controversies.	We think that this is the most extreme version and its not based on facts she said.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	NCAs dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes froma 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors.	False
Site owners are ultimately liable for cleanup costs but a taxpayer funded trust fund is in place when sites must be addressed quickly are abandoned or when owners dont have the resources.	Theres simply not enough money to know what to prioritize.	At some point such a deep cut makes any agency effectively non responsive Thomas said.	Ben Thomas a former tank inspector and state regulator in Alaska who now consults with private operators on meeting the inspection rules said cutting the program would hurt businesses that have come to appreciate the heavy stick of enforcement for bad players and the general community outreach.	The recommended cut in the LUST program is part of the presidents proposal to reduce the Environmental Protection Agency budget by 31 next year.	False
We can't have a thriving economy if you don't have a healthy clean environment.	We have many priorities at the agency.	President Trump has an America First policy he said.	But in terms of climate leadership it is exactly the opposite.	And now of course it's coal's inability to compete with natural gas on price for power generation.	False
He has been outspoken in favor of gun control and after the shooting in Parkland Fla. last year he confronted President Trump on live television denouncing Mr. Trumps suggestion to arm schoolteachers.	His advocacy on the issue goes back many years he lost his seat in Congress after voting for the 1994 assault weapons ban.	While Mr. Inslee has made clear that he intends to focus overwhelmingly on climate change he is on the record supporting liberal policies in many other areas.	While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels Washington had the highest G.D.P.	His environmental policy record in his home state is long.	False
This new category of refugee needs to find a place in international agreements.	Asrecently as last year anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu pop.	In December 2009 the islands stalled talks atUnited Nations Climate Change ConferenceinCopenhagen fearing some other developing countries were not committing fully to binding deals on a reduction in carbon emission their chief negotiator stated Tuvalu is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to climate change and our future rests on the outcome of this meeting.57When the conference failed to reach a binding meaningful agreement Tuvalus representative Ian Fry said It looks like we are being offered30 pieces of silverto betray our people and our future Our future is not for sale.	It records possibly Tuvalus greatest moment of glory on the international stage when it seized the opportunity at the 2009 Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen to grandstand about its terrible plight.	The UN has since removed the claim from most of its websites.	False
A scenario where were all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed.	All we have to do is give up our common sense.	When pie in the sky thinking meets end of times conspiracy theories we get something like this.	Still Ocasio Cortez believes that if this plan gets put into action itll solve every problem under the sun including racism and bigotry.	Tidal generators beach whales with such frequency that if it were a Republican backed project environmental groups would be having conniptionfits and endless marches.	False
Eventually it dawned on me that I should maybe bring my actions into alignment with my beliefs.	Some people like Tarek Maassarani take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes.	The content is provided for information purposes only.	At the same time if meat is all that is left when he rummages through garbage or approaches buffets he makes it a point to go last he will consume it.	Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research no part may be reproduced without the written permission.	False
This is honesty sp about how Democrats would micromanage private life.	I would love to understand this logic.	Somehow government run healthcare family sustainable wages paid leave and affordable housing are also required for a clean economy the writer wrote.	Right?	Because you know like money is just paper and how hard can it be to make some more of the stuff right?	False
I've heard the climate change argument back and forth.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	However Zinke also reiterated an argument that he made earlier this week blaming environmental groups for preventing dead trees from being cleared due to their opposition to the logging industry.	We have been held hostage by these environmental terrorist groups that have not allowed public access that have refused to allow the harvest of timber Zinke told Breitbart Monday.	Earlier this week Zinke blamed environmental terrorist groups for California's destructive wildfires in an interview with Breitbart Radio.	False
It added it was taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment.	No impact to the community has been reported the company said.	The unit was stabilized.	At this time while we do not believe there is any imminent danger the potential for a chemical reaction leading to a fire andor explosion within the site confines is real Arkema said in a statement.	This effectively means the affected companies can report whatever they wish without any oversight from the state regulators.	False
But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Like this story?	wondered one user.	Not sure after tonight who has less time to live Biden or the planet said one.	False
Conservative lungs and other bodily organs are as vulnerable to pollution bred terminal ailments and the violent effects of climate change as their liberal counterparts.	Lets be clear about what is at issue here.	When you go through the list of health standards slated for Pruitts abolition you wonder whether there are any limits to his cold blooded corporatized agenda.	History provides precedents of how the boundless zealotry of new wrecking crews ultimately leads to self inflicted wounds and scandals.	Thats when you know that the officious Pruitt doesnt even care about appearances much less the perils of lawless and secretive influence peddling that enriches President Trumps investments.	True
There is an inherent tradeoff between affordable energy and environmental harm and it makes no sense to ask judges and juries rather than elected legislators to strike the right balance.	So whats the problem?	First unlike smoking energy is a basic good.	We are expected to believe that energy companies covered up the damage done by fossil fuels and yet publicly available industry funded research is cited as evidence that the companies were aware of the harms they were causing.	The comparison reveals two fundamental issues with the suits.	True
We will no longer accept this injustice.	RELATEDThousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests We have the right to live our dreams and hopes the letter continues.	We demand justice for all past current and future victims of the climate crisis and so we are rising up read an open letter that the activists published on the Guardian claiming they would be protesting on every continent on Friday.	Now we will make our voices heard.	Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world.	True
However Morris argued that the department had not given areasoned explanation for how it came to this conclusion.	Morris had ruled in August that the State Department had to reach a conclusion on the environmental impacts of the pipeline but determined Thursday that the departments analysis had left out information he considered to be crucial.He also accused the State Department of usingoutdated information about potential environmental impacts instead ofthe best scientific and commercial data available.	In a 54 page decision Judge Brian Morris of the U.S. District Court in Montana granted an injunction to the Indigenous Environmental Network and Northern Plains Resource Council against the U.S. State Department the TransCanada Keystone Pipeline and the TransCanada Corporation.	These omissions require a remand with instructions to the Department to satisfy its obligations under NEPA Morris wrote.	In November 2015 former President Barack Obamas administration blocked the pipelines construction citing potential environmental impact.	False
A study fromthe Institute of International and European Affairs says Trump's decision has created the 'moral and political cover for others to follow suit' in leaving the agreement.	Climate Change.'	Antonio Guterres UN Secretary General said this period of time is'a matter of life and death' for countries around the world.	'The Paris agreement sent a shiver down the spine of institutional investors globally and made them question if they were exposed to stranded assets and whether these political leaders were really serious about climate change' saidJoseph Curtin a senior fellow at the IIEA.	The statement was issued by Frank Bainimarama of Fiji Salaheddine Mezouar of Morocco Laurent Fabius of France and Manuel Pulgar Vidal of Peru.	False
CPP and the other climate regulations imposed by the Obama administration were justified based on the EPAs determination carbon dioxide poses a threat to human health and the environment a concept known as the endangerment finding.	The EPAs decision was not unexpected.	Talk about all pain and no gain!	The EPA based the decision to rescind CPP on three main principles CPP is inconsistent with the 1970 Clean Air Act CPP violated states authority to decide the best mix of power generation within their borders and eroded longstanding federalstate partnerships necessary to achieve environmental improvement and enforcement of CPP would have had a devastating effect on jobs and raised energy costs for consumersall while having virtually no effect on climate change.	Withdrawing the endangerment finding would eliminate the legal justification that has been used to impose a wide range of climate regulations.	False
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	SteveGorehamis a speaker on the environment business and public policy and author of thebookOutside the Green Box Rethinking Sustainable Development.	While advocates of climate common sense are pleased with the recent court decisions the acceptance that humans are causing dangerous climate change by the oil and gas defendants is very disappointing.	Note that Judge Alsup is not a conservative judge.	Last week the US House of Representativespasseda resolution opposing a carbon tax.	False
The US and the three other nations sided against welcoming the measure.	The United States was willing to note the report and express appreciation to the scientists who developed it but not to welcome it as that would denote endorsement of the report the State Department said in a statement.	Washington CNN Since the Trump administration released its blockbuster report on the day after Thanksgiving outlining the dire environmental and economic impacts of climate change it has made a series of policy and diplomatic decisions or statements that appear to run counter to all of the warnings in the report.	At the recent G20 meeting in Argentina which came just days after the release of that dire climate report US diplomats insisted on noting that the US reaffirmed its intention to withdraw from the Paris accord.	A clause in a communique signed by the member nations says the US reiterates its decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and affirms its strong commitment to economic growth and energy access and security utilizing all energy sources and technologies while protecting the environment.	False
I cannot speak to that.	Wed even settle for a coherent policy to tackle it rather than make it worse Poole told Yahoo News.	Wheres the presidents outrage about that?	We asked why Trump was saying that the states water is being redirecting into the ocean and where that idea originated.	Jerry Brown in a series of tweets.	False
'Greta embodies the moral authority of the youth activist movement demanding that we act immediately to solve the climate crisis.	Another wrote 'Interesting how a leader that acts like a child is yelling at a child who acts like a leader'.	during the UN General Assembly this year.	By lunchtime the hashtag was trending on the social media platform with one popular response reading 'A 16 year old with Asperger's and non native English speaker has better social and communications skills than the current President of the United States.	The teen girl with Asperger's syndrome is the face of the youth climate movement drawing large crowds with her appearances at protests and conferences since last year.	False
Gov.	She says typically the agency would communicate with a state privately and work out differences to encourage a cooperative rather than adversarial relationship.	Gavin Newsom has been critical of President Trump's environmental record and challenged the administration in court.	I just think it's so ironic that the EPA is chastising California which has been so progressive in working towards cleaner air more than any other place in the country says Janet McCabe who was an EPA official during the Obama administration and now directs Indiana University's Environmental Resilience Institute.	This letter is a threat of pure retaliation Newsom says.	False
We want to eliminate confusion Freire said by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how were protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law.	As EPA renews its commitment to human health and clean air land and water our website needs to reflect the views of the leadership of the agency said JP Freire an associate administrator for public affairs.	At the marquee climate protest the Peoples Climate March in Washington tens of thousands made their way down Pennsylvania Avenue in sweltering heat on their way to encircle the White House.	Honored to join Indigenous leaders and native peoples as they fight for climate justice DiCaprio tweeted.	For instance the White House has proposed cutting funding and regulations regarding lead poisoning prevention and is considering rewriting regulations concerning smog.	False
Proponents of the theory humans are primarily responsible for rising global temperatures long claimed wildlife are harmed significantly by global warming and that unless mankind stops producing significant amounts of carbon dioxide emissions the worlds animals will not be able to thrive.	This is the conclusion of researchers in the periodical Polar Biology the press release said.	USA Today recently declared the loss of sea ice terrifying but global warming skeptics have long suggested these claims are overblown when put into perspective.	While rising temperatures have certainly put a strain on species in some parts of the world a new study by researchers at the University of Southern Denmark suggests animals in the Arctic region are thriving as because of higher global temperatures.	Current data suggest about 14.28 million square km of sea ice remain.	False
It's an adventure.	Actually this is a good experience.	It's strange.	We need a policy that looks at the climate through completely different eyes Environment Minister Sergio Costa said Thursday.	We need to be resilient and adapt.	False
The Sludge an investigative website reported last December that ORourkes Senate campaign failed to comply with a pledge not to knowingly accept contributions of more than 200 from the oil and gas industry.	The League of Conservation Voters National Environmental Scorecard gives Cruz a lifetime rating of 4 based on his voting record in Congress ORourkes score is 95.	In 2015 ORourke twice voted to repeal the nationwide ban on exporting crude oil internationally arguing that lifting the prohibition would boost the economy and national security.	Literally the future of the world depends on us.	Hes going to have to take a pretty strong stand.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	TIME listed Greta Thunberg a 16 year old climate change activist on its list of the 100 most influential people of 2019.	Climate change is our reality and youth activists like Greta are doing everything within their power to work against it and demand a change Gonzlez wrote.	Erosion of fertile topsoil deforestation of the rainforest toxic air pollution loss of insects and wildlife acidification of our oceans these are all disastrous trends said Thunberg barely able to keep her tears back.	RELATED Another Canadian Province Boots Liberals Out Of Power Over Carbon Taxes Environmentalists even some climate scientists are increasingly promoting Thunbergs actions in an effort to draw more young people into climate activism.	False
The Cuyahoga River Love Canal when there was no environmental protection.	The effect is to take away an agency's powers to deal with real world problems.	It's a move that sounds like an attitude of deference and separation of power Buzbee said.	The Supreme Court now for decades has said that environmental and aesthetic interests count for standing Buzbee said.	Writing for a divided panel he found that this good neighbor rule overstepped the EPA's authority.	False
As part of the wide ranging conversation about climate change he explainedhow he squares hissupport for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities.	And while historically nuclear power companies have built their plantsand dumped the wastein poor communities of color Booker believes it doesnt have to be that way He points to agreements struck between local and national governments in Canada and Europe as a model for a community process to deal with the waste.	Among the 2020 presidential candidates Cory Booker stands out for his record of advocating for the people who bear the brunt of pollution and toxic waste.	Bookers support for nuclear power and a carbon fee has tempered any praise from the Climate Justice Alliance a network that fears these policies would hurt more than help affected communities.	Yeah its cheap because the price does not include the full cost to humanity.	False
The Council argues in favor of finding ways to humanely stabilize population as a means of mitigating the effects of global warming.	The antidote to the Councils doomsday predictions are to take the world back to pre industrial levels of CO2 emissions the text declares conjuring images of bearded Amish people driving about in horse drawn carriages.	Not only present evils however but future calamities are also prophesied with astounding exactitude and certainty.	Not content with prescribing a drastic cutback in global emissions however the Council members forge onward to make a more insidious proposal population control.	Humanity must restore a safe level of greenhouse gas concentrations and global average temperatures well below todays levels and back to pre industrial levels as quickly as possible it states.	False
And sometimes I wonder whether any amount of evidence could convince you to act.	But they disregard some of its most important teachings when formulating policy.	Words do not suffice in a tragedy like this.	After all we have a surplus of evidence.	Republican politicians often evoke the Bible when it suits their purposes.	False
Solomon proposed that while feigning interest in global warming is politically expedient most people are unconvinced that it poses a real problemunlike the real pollution that is killing millions.	In an essay in Fridays Financial Post Solomon said that most signatories are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios.	In the Popes written message to the meeting conveyed by the Vaticans Secretary of State Cardinal Pietro Parolin the pontiff expressed his concern for water conservation around the world as well as his fervent desire that the threat posed by climate change to our brothers and sisters in the most vulnerable countries will find prompt and effective responses.	Curiously neither the European Commissioner nor the Pope made any mention to the extraordinary number of deaths caused by water and air pollution preferring instead to focus on the nebulous and ideologically charged notion of anthropogenic climate change.	Trudeau now stands almost alone in sincere support of Paris Solomon wrote.	False
The simple moral truth is that United States is by far the worlds largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it they added.	We cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment said the church leaders the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co Cathedral.	We view science as a way to deepen our appreciation and wonder at the majesty of Gods creation including the complex beautiful and life sustaining planet earth.	inan op edpublished by the Missoulian Thursday for failing to understand climate changes role in a widespread fish kill in Yellowstone National Park last summer.	The one Catholic priest and three Protestant clergy criticized Sen. Steve Daines R Mont.	True
I was fighting back against corporate greed and this constant disregard for public health.	As a Michigan state legislator Tlaib fought to reduceair and water pollution in Detroit and put environmental justice at the center of her campaign.	Be hopeful.	For me those young people I saw at that church that was me 15 years ago Tlaib said in a phone interview.	The night before Tlaib and Representative elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez N.Y.who made headlines today by joining the protesters at Pelosis officehad stopped by St. Stephens church to meet with the activists on the eve of the demonstration.	False
Like this story?	Last year a hose malfunction sprayed a worker with a toxic solution sending him fleeing to an emergency decontamination shower.	Its a pretty big concern if you have an unknown quantity of material containing uranium leaching into the groundwaterlocal anti nuclear activist Tom Clements told The State.	In both cases the company resolved to hire new management and overhaul its safety procedures.	Despite boasting that no company is more focused on nuclear fuel reliability Westinghouses South Carolina factory has seen its share of safety foul ups in the past.	False
Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club boasted that his organization and other activists are responsible for the closure of scores of dirty power plants.	The Sierra Club distributed a press release on Wednesday announcing it had received the 64 million donation to support its Beyond Coal campaign and other organizations with the same ideology that would like to put all coal operations out of business and the American workers who depend on them out of work.	It was started and continues to be led by communities in both red and blue states who are tired of having their air and water poisoned when there are cleaner and cheaper alternatives available cities and states that are determined to clean their air and reduce their costs and businesses seeking to lower their energy bills while also doing their part for the climate.	Together we have worked with local grassroots activists and partners in the nations most vulnerable communities to secure the retirement of 259 dirty power plants and the promise of a brighter future putting at the center of our work a transition that leaves no one behind and that demands good paying family sustaining jobs for workers who depended on the fossil fuel economy Brune said.	President Trumpsignedan executive order in March ordering a review of the Clean Power Plan as well as other environmental regulations.	False
Its not based on facts.	One of the problems that a lot of people like myself we have very high levels of intelligence but were not necessarily such believers said Trump speaking to the Posts Josh Dawsey and Philip Rucker.	You look at our air and our water and its right now at a record clean.	Trump toured the town of Paradise which was incinerated and said that his opinion of climate change hadnt shifted after the visit.	Its based on modeling.	False
None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president None What my journey into homelessness taught me	They can sense that we are making an impact.	So they are using several methods to mock and hate.	Something must have changed in the debate that so many young people are speaking up and so many young people are being targeted Thunberg told Yahoo News in response to the mockery her movement has received from leaders like Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin.	Now what does he want?	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	This represents a 1 percent decrease from the previous year and a 14 percent decrease since 2005.	Claim 3 From 2005 to 2017 this country has reduced emissions by 14 percent claimed Perry.	He also threw his support behind a 7 billion electrical transmission project to send renewable energy to communities across the state.	Here are four checks on claims from the interview.	False
I will say this I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars.	I think there's probably a difference.	But I don't know that it's man made.	You know we're talking about over a ... millions of years.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False
After Clinton clinched the nomination the issue disappeared without a single question asked during three debates between Clinton and her Republican opponent Donald Trump.	In a first Washington Gov.	Once dubbedthe celebrities choice in offset providers NativeEnergy provides third party verification of how its offsets are used and boasts a high score as a benefit corporation a sort of LEED certification of for profit companies that pay employees decent wages and provide measurable value to society.	Bernie Sanders is a champion in the fight for climate justice and like him we know we need to address our emissions through action not just rhetoric Faiz Shakir Sanders campaign manager said in a statement.	In 2007 former Iowa Gov.	False
The conclusion?	And on that score paper bags fare worse.	Not necessarily.	Making a cotton shopping bag is hardly cost free.	Back in 2011 Britains Environment Agency conducted a life cycle assessment of various bag options looking at every step of the production process.	False
WASHINGTON AP An agency ethics official at the Environmental Protection Agency says Administrator Scott Pruitts lease of a Capitol Hill condo tied to a prominent fossil fuels lobbyist didnt violate federal ethics rules.	Walter Shaub who ran the U.S. Office of Government Ethics until last year rated EPAs legal justification of Pruitts living arrangements as Total Baloney.	Also left unanswered was how Pruitt came to rent a property tied to a lobbyist with business interests involving his agency.	Minolis memo says the 50 a night rate would total 1500 for 30 nights a month which he deemed to be a fair price.	Ill only pay for nights I use it but need it held vacant all other nights wrote Shaub who has become a frequent critic of what he sees as ethical lapses in the Trump administration.	False
What is doing this to us?	Why are we sick?	We are hungry Were tired and weak Our babies are sick the plants and animals complain.	asks Frannie Frog.	asks Lucy Lake.	True
Now left unattended and gathering trash and human waste the Trump administration has let them reflect us at our worst.	This story was originally published bytheGuardian.	While the majority of the public will be respectful there will always be a few who take advantage of the opportunity to do lasting damage.	It is a violation of the stewardship mandate motivated only by politics.	Absolutely American absolutely democratic they reflect us at our best rather than our worst.	False
No bloom no harvest.	So what will replace corn on Iowa's fertile land?	Nothing says Iowa quite like fields of corn.	They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes most of them bad for growing corn.	So it's mainly grown on relatively cool mountainsides in the tropics.	False
They were also used to rejecting it.	I believe man plays a part in it but not to the extent that others have been talking about that's what me and Donald Trump were talking about Eskridge said.	That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels.	But they're not going to change many minds here.	Often they say people object to the idea that humans could possibly change the climate even if they wanted to.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	Now those officials are preparing to discard sound scientific methods to pretend that their actions will be less deadly than they really are.	Particulate matter is extremely harmful and it leads to a large number of premature deaths Richard Revesz an environmental law expert at New York University told the Times.	He admitted to the Times that the new method would allow the Trump administration to claim its other changes would cause fewer deaths.	Using an approach described by experts as not scientifically sound the Trump administration will soon change the way it evaluates the harm from coal plants spewing more pollution into the air according to a Monday New York Times report.	False
This was part ofa wider war on the Green Blob which has also involved withdrawing from the UNs Paris climate accord.	This fudge isnt perfect and it still doesnt solve the problem of the EPAs Obama era Endangerment Finding on carbon dioxide which ludicrously treats a harmless life enhancing trace gas as an existential threat.	Hence Trumps election trail promise and executive orderin March this yearrequesting EPA chief Scott Pruitt to rescind the CPP.	Note though that the CPP is not being scrapped altogether but rather being delayed indefinitely through judicial fudge.	Some conservative groups have urged the EPA to scrap the CPP without replacing it effectively ending U.S. regulation of carbon emissions.	False
University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. recentlypublished a paperon the problems with the UNs use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord.	California Democratic Gov.	Brown is right in one sense.	Yet BECCS plays a very real role in todays climate policy arena Pielke wrote by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and 90s.	What Brownorderedis not just reducing emissions but instead implied sucking more greenhouse gas out of the air than human activities in his state put up and not just for electricity.	False
I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get that result.	Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward.	Tim Donnellyis a former California State Assemblyman and Author currently on a book tour for his new bookPatriot Not Politician Win or Go Homeless.	Governor Jerry Brown has expressed an interest in barring the sale of vehicles powered by internal combustion engines Mary Nichols chairman of theCalifornia Air Resources Board said in an interview Friday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.The earliest such a ban is at least a decade away she said.	California has had the right to write its own pollution rules since the 1970s underwaivers granted by the EPA.	False
Climate Justice.	When do we want it?	We are not here to guilt individuals that forgot to recycle a cup last week another young woman said.	Now.	We cannot live in a world that is burning one young woman said that is melting.	False
Our society needs to turn dramatically and immediately towards the shared goals of environmental justice broad based prosperity and health.	Its really not politically expedient to come all the way out for it he said of Steyers reticence.	Hes calculating.	Other analysts shared similar sentiments.	Steyers political action group NextGen America has not responded to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for comment.	False
The problem is the age old tragedy of the commons.	We should have higher taxes on the things that science says are probably bad for us than those that are probably good for us.	The common good being consumed is atmospheric and oceanic carbon capacity which currently has a price of zero.	This is analogous to taxing cigarettes and alcohol more than fruits and vegetables which everybody agrees makes sense.	New York investors including Goldman Sachs have made big bets on the preservation of the Paris deal according to The HuffingtonPost.	False
It was a different story this time around.	Montana Gov.	Former Colorado Gov.	The relatively brief segment devoted to climate change Tuesday is unlikely to satisfy environmental activists.	But I think they need more time to state the case.	False
Though not surprising this is extremely troubling.	Jake Schmidt the international program director at the Natural Resources Defense Council released the following statement Replacing the man from Big Oil with a first class climate denier simply goes from bad to worse.	With a history of questioning the science of climate change a close relationship with the polluter Koch brothers and lifetime LCV score of 4 Mike Pompeo has no business becoming the next secretary of state.	Naomi Ages the climate director of Greenpeace USA was similarly perturbed.	He received more financial backing from Koch Industries an energy and natural resources conglomerate than any other candidate in the 2010 elections 80000.	False
Its findings aligned with those of the broader scientific community.	Trump dismissedthe report saying he did not believe its findings and disputing that climate change is man made.	Wouldnt be bad to have a little of that good old fashioned Global Warming right now!	Be careful and try staying in your house Trump advised.	The study mandated to be released every four years under the National Climate Assessment from the multiagency Global Change Research Program was conducted by hundreds of government and external scientists.	True
But that is where reality tempers the possibilities.	But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	Between climate change and reckless exploitation and pollution of rivers streams and lakes Tamil Nadu is staring at a bleak water future.	In June 2017 villagers in Tamil Nadu's parched Ramanathapuram district were protesting against a solar power plant they alleged that more than 200000 litres of scarce water was being extracted illegally from bore wells to clean the 250000 solar modules daily.	A healthy and environmentally sustainable future requires more than just switching from dirty coal to wind or solar power.	False
Senator Tom Carper the top Democrat on the Senate environment panel said Once again President Trump is abandoning our global allies for the sake of misplaced political gain.	Carl Pope vice chair of the group Americas Pledge said its members who are vowing to keep fighting the climate emergency produce more than half the countrys heat trapping emissions and represent about 70 of the US gross domestic product.	They called the Paris agreement a start not a finish line but the best ignition switch the world could agree on to spark international cooperation on this critical issue.	Carper said Trump is abandoning tremendous economic opportunity and public health benefits.	Jean Su energy director with the Center for Biological Diversitys Climate Law Institute said America is the number one historical contributor to the climate emergency wreaking havoc in burning California the flooded Southeast and the rest of the world.	False
So there was no majority opinion.	There are plenty of 63 or 72 cases where environmentally sound decisions in our view were made.	Its not like every environmental case was decided 54 Doniger said.	In this case his lone opinion became the law Bookbinder said.	One area legal experts are split on is whether the 2007 decision that greenhouse gases are pollutants will be reconsidered.	False
Let us make an effort to change and to adopt more simple and respectful lifestyles!	In this way the environment itself is endangered something good in Gods eyes has become something to be exploited in human hands.	Egoism and self interest have turned creation a place of encounter and sharing into an arena of competition and conflict he said.	Too many of us act like tyrants with regard to creation he declared.	The expression climate crisis for instance got a 60 percent greater emotional response from listeners than climate change the study found.	True
It is affecting all of us no matter where we live.	But there are other less obvious risks.	Effects on people and the economy are considerably less dire under these scenarios than in the most severe one.	Global Change Research Program.	It's fine he told reporters at the White House although he said he doesn't believe the report's assessment that climate change will cause devastating economic impacts for the U.S.	False
Those who point to discrepancies in the global warming narrative have also noted that many of the solutions offered by climate change advocates do very little to actually stop carbon emissions and turn back the clock.	Rothman says thatdecreasing carbon emissions would be the best way to try to avoid the catastrophe.	A geophysics professor from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology says that hes run the numbers on humanity facing a mass extinction event and the numbers are not good.	Daniel Rothman told the publication that we are approaching a threshold of catastrophe in the carbon cycle similar to that of the five previous periods of mass extinction over the last 540 million years.	The other a critical size or mass corresponds to the total carbon added to the oceans.	False
The answer doesnt really matter.	To avert climate chaos we need to challenge the free market fundamentalism that has conquered the world since the 1980s.	In 2015 Greenpeace activists duped Happer into agreeing to write a report on the benefits of carbon dioxide for a fictional oil company.	As the New York Times reported in its article on the White Houses new climate plans both Happer and John Bolton who tapped him for the administration have received generous support from the Mercers the rightwing family credited with both spreading climate denial and helping fuel the opioid epidemic.	As Naomi Klein argues even the rights fervent conspiracy theorists tend to understand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are for business as usual which has distributed its profits among elites of both parties.	False
The report is seen as the main scientific guide for government policymakers on how to implement the 2015 Paris Agreement.	The Paris pact aims to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2C above pre industrial levels while seeking to tighten the goal to 1.5C.	The U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC met last week in Incheon South Korea to finalize the report prepared at the request of governments in 2015 when a global pact to tackle climate change was agreed.	But the report said the efficacy of measures such as planting forests bioenergy use or capturing and storing CO2 were unproven at a large scale and carried some risks.	The report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it said Amjad Abdulla the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	False
Thosematters need to be resolved before the Legislative session ends at the end of the week.	Republicans fled the Senate some even claiming to the leave the state refusing to sign off on a bill that wouldlimit emissions and establishpollution permitsor allowances for each ton of carbon an industry plans to emit.	AnOregon climate change bill that prompted 12 Republican lawmakers to flee the Statehouse in Salem last weekhas hit yet another snagSenate President Peter Courtney a Democrat announced Tuesday that the chamber did not have enough votes to pass the legislation.	All we're saying is it shouldn't cost thousands of manufacturing jobs raise the gas tax by 20 cents a gallon to start out with and raise natural gas prices for people who heat their home by almost 50 percent.	And the only way we could do that and stop this vote is by not providing a quorum for Democrats to roll over us.. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Protesters in support of the climate bill were disappointed Tuesday after Courtney's announcement despite assurances by Democratic lawmakers who insisted they would find a path forward for the bill.	True
This is religion for the political left and our supporters are constantly being asked to change their behavior a top White House official told Axios who added that snarky comments from European leaders also encouraged Trump to withdraw.	For years liberals like Al Gore and Leonardo DiCaprio have lectured the American public on global warming yet these hypocrites have bigger carbon footprints than millions of poorer peoplecombined traveling around the world in private jets accompanied by a fleet of SUVs.	Now a new report sheds some more light into why President Trump rejected the globalist scam and its incrediblespecifically he wanted to stick it to holier than thou elites in America specifically leftists who flyaround in private jets drive SUVs and live in massive mansions yet lecture Americans about their environmental impact.	The White House official said Trump resented the corporate critics who ride in fossil fuel guzzling planes and SUVs then act holier than thou according to Axios.	President Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal is a giant middle finger to elitists all around the world who want America to suffer simply to promote their global warming alarmism.	False
Thousands break off every year.	Mother Nature has been teasing mankind with this for a long time saying 'this is here'.	Sloane's idea might be dismissed as mere fantasy.	But the 56 year old Zambian South African has a reputation for taking on the impossible after he re floated the giant Costa Concordia cruise ship that capsized in 2012 off the Tuscan island of Giglio killing 32 people one of the world's largest and most complex maritime salvage operations.	To tackle the drought Cape Town has enacted measures ranging from building seawater desalination plants to issuing strict instructions to only flush toilets when necessary.	False
Mandating conservation however is drastically different from incentivizing it.	Browns latest plan Making Water Conservation a California Way of Life allows the state to oversee conservation goals it sets in urban water management agencies as well as to permanently prohibit activities it deems wasteful of the water supply.	But water conservation can only go so far.	Governor Brown has pushed two contradictory agendas for months.	John Woodling of the Sacramento Regional Water Authority told the Sacramento Bee that Browns assertion of state power in this area will give it permanent unchecked control over local water management decisions.	False
That reflects the views of powerful conservative political advocacy groups such as Americans for Prosperity which is funded by the influential libertarian brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch.	Cancel the Paris climate treaty and any other agreements entered into unilaterally and without the consent of Congress Mr. Hamm wrote in a letter to Mr. Trump before his inauguration.	That view is also backed by economists at the Heritage Foundation the conservative think tank that has supplied the Trump administration with many of its policy proposals.	Daniel M. Bodansky an expert in international environmental agreements at Arizona State University said that remaining in the Paris deal but weakening the United States commitment could still have the effect of generating some ill will but without the repercussions of trade sanctions.	Last month Representative Kevin Cramer a Republican from oil gas and coal rich North Dakota wrote The U.S. should present a new pledge that does no harm to our economy.	False
This is our chance to decide what that road will look like.	In 50 years she says it's going to be very different.	We have a monumental task in front of us says co author Natalie Mahowald from Cornell University but it is not impossible.	That was the Paris agreement's most ambitious target a 2 degree C rise was established as a more practical goal.	Crops like corn are now turned into ethanol but that raises food prices.	False
Its the height of irony given Europes virtue signaling last year.	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	Corporate America is doing its part.	When individuals are free to choose when and how to adjust their daily lives to protect the environment without government compulsion requiring it the environment reaps the benefits.	There is nothing more vital for environmental protection than our freedom to protect the environment as individuals without Big Government and its endless red tape.	False
The resolution proposes providing all people of the United States with i high quality health care ii affordable safe and adequate housing iii economic security and iv access to clean water clean air healthy and affordable food and nature.	Workers are often paid far less than the value they create.	Ocasio Cortez fired back on Twitter and said A living wage isn't a gift it's a right.	The resolution co sponsored by several Democrats running for President in 2020 has been heavily criticized by those on the right.	It calls for the creation of millions of new high wage jobs to help wipe out poverty.	False
Other celebrities like Julia Roberts are also eco hypocrites.	Even Forbes noted DiCaprio himself is one of those big polluters which diminishes his moral authority to lecture others on reducing their own carbon emissions in March 2016.	But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?	Although DiCaprio is a self proclaimed environmentalist he continued to live an incompatible lifestyle of massive carbon emissions.	All while owning multiple mansions vacationing on yachts and flying thousands of miles in private jets.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others.	However Ocasio Cortez staffers have since removed farting from fact sheet.	The question then becomes How do you eliminate emissions from cows sheep and other animals?	Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more.	True
Social issues Abortion should remain legal after 20 weeks.	Castro is a Roman Catholic who supports legal abortion access and gay rights.	Gay marriage is a protected right.	Education Establish universal pre K education.	Gun control Require universal background checks ban assault weapons.	True
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	And what constitutes sustainable consumption and production is in the eyes of the beholding bureaucrat empowered either by the administrative regulatory state or by legislation adopted at the behest of deep pocketed special interests.	The ties that bound the UN and the Obama administration should not be allowed to constrain the choices of everyday Americans.	And therein lies the problem.	For the common goals and objectives shared by the U.N. body and the Obama administration are specifically crafted to hamstring American fossil fuel energy development promote an assortment of politically fashionable but otherwise uncompetitive green technologies and products and perpetuate the deplorable living conditions in the worlds poorest countries.	False
Scientists say governments businesses and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming fishing forestry mining or infrastructure development.	Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have.	The report conducted by 550 experts from around the world said reduced biodiversity could affect people's quality of life.	Fortunately the evidence also shows that we know how to protect and partially restore our vital natural assets.	The findings come after the death of the last male northern white rhino.	False
She points to the massive wildlife that hit Portugal last month that left 60 people dead and one that happened in Chile in January.	Anne Petermann executive director at the Global Justice Ecology Project said the tradition has been for the government to rubberstamp genetically engineered organisms but this would be the first time they are approving a genetically engineered forest tree.	Those studies have not been done and that is one of the major points in the comments.	Eucalyptus trees are the number one industrial tree plantation used in Latin America Africa and Asia traditionally in tropical areas where commerce appreciates their fast growth and versatility.	Over 250000 Americans and 500 organizations submitted comments rejecting the US Department of Agricultures USDA proposal to approve genetically engineered eucalyptus trees for planting.	False
Voxs David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points.	Washington Gov.	And theres always the risk that it could devolve into rote recitals of platitudes.	That a major television network would devote so much time to a single issue is a sign of how important climate change has become for Democrats and how successful activists have been in elevating the issue.	CNNs climate change forum has immense potential to illuminate real differences among the candidates and inform the public about the often weedy details of climate policy.	False
They're a matter of life or death.	At this year's State of the Union address Trump talked about ending the war on beautiful clean coal.	In a New York Times op ed video published Tuesday Nick Mullins a ninth generation Appalachian from Virginia said that if Trump wants to help the Appalachian mining communities that support him lowering emission standards is not the way to do it.	A fifth generation coal miner from Virginia has spoken out against President Donald Trump's rhetoric surrounding the coal mining industry saying the President is making false promises that are only going to line the pockets of coal executives.	We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue he said.	False
This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters its nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science gut our clean air protections and put polluter profits ahead of our health Sara Jordan a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters said in a statement.	The orderinstructs the EPA to consider what countries that dont border the United States are doing to reduce pollution allowing the agency to compare U.S. regulations to those in developing nations like China and India.	In what could be the most controversial part the order requires the EPAs science advisers to consider the downside of cleaner air rulessomething for which industry groups have clamored for years.	It marks the latest assault on clean air rules putting poor people and communities of color particularly at risk.	The purpose is that if states make determinations that are somewhat less than the rigor of what might be expected EPA wont second guess it Stan Meiburg a former acting deputy EPA administrator who spent 39 years at the agency told HuffPost by phone.	False
In a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity it is necessary to recall the values of custody of creation the preferential option for the poor and the peace that is built in everyday life including with attention to the care of the common home she said.	The moral clarity of these 40 institutions is a source of deep joy said Toms Insua the director of the Movement.	In this new wave of ethical investing the total figure of divestiture for the church groups involved has not been disclosed but is reportedly four times higher than a previous church record.	I hope we will see more leaders like these 40 Catholic institutions commit because while this decision makes smart financial sense acting collectively to deliver a better future for everybody is also our moral imperative she said.	His groundbreaking 2015 encyclicalletterLaudato Sion care for the environment was the first teaching letter of its sort in the history of the Catholic Church.	False
People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	'The eyes of future generations are on you and if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you.	I shouldn't be up here.I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean.	In her impassioned address yesterday she said 'This is all wrong.	'Yet you have come to us young people for hope.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The new rule is really a dereliction of duty moral ethical but also legal Andres Restrepo a lawyer with the Sierra Club's Environmental Law Program told the Post.	That's the exact opposite of what Trump regularly claims.	His lies dont make it cleaner and his policies are on track to make it worse.	While Trump has been in office the air has gotten dirtier.	False
Its true of course that you dont want to do a completely naive associational study and then leap to big policy conclusions from it.	This is critically important for two main reasons.	He wants to abandon the current weight of the evidence standards that allows for a wide range of evidence to be considered with credibility weighted according to the quality of study design in favor of a very narrow class of studies that employ manipulative causation methods.	Chan School of Public Health writes with researcher Gretchen Goldman in a new Science essay on the subject this loads the dice against demonstrating harms because randomized control trials are not possible or ethical when studying environmental hazards.	But most regulations that reduce carbon emissions also reduce much more localized soot and taking into account the fact that soot has a marked tendency to kill people who live nearby the emissions sources is important to making the cost benefit analysis math work.	False
Its inevitable that we will lose them all over the next few decades Farge said.	Rising temperatures Montana is warming nearly twice as quickly as the global average and changes in precipitation patterns are eroding away glaciers in the state and elsewhere along the Rocky mountains.	Some have lost as much as 85 of their expanse over the past 50 years with Glacier national park site of 37 of the surveyed glaciers set to lose all of its eponymous ice formations within the next few decades.	wikimedia commons Its now inevitable that the contiguous United States will lose all of its glaciers within a matter of decades according to scientists who have revealed the precipitous shrinkage of dozens of glaciers in Montana.	The disappearance of glaciers in Montana is part of a broader loss that will see all glaciers defined as moving bodies of snow and ice larger than 25 acres largely vanish from the lower 48 states of America by the mid point of the century according to Dr Daniel Farge lead USGS scientist.	False
Supporters say the ballot measure would protect public health but opponents say its a red herring meant as a de facto ban on fracking.	Steyers group has spent more than 10 million in support of Nevadas green ballot measure.	Polls show strong support for Proposition 112.	Jay Inslee and many Democrats and environmentalists who want to fight man made global warming.	A September poll put support for Proposition 112 at 60 percent but many prominent Democrats have come out against the measure.	False
The consent decrees here involve violations of federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act.	Less enforcement doesnt mean there arent a whole lot of violations that are out there said Eric Schaeffer executive director of the Environmental Integrity Project who led the civil enforcement office at the EPA under Presidents Clinton and Bush in a call with reporters.	Check out this chart The fines come from consent decrees a type of legal settlement where a party has to take a specific action but does not have to admit fault or liability.	Enforcement matters especially to the people who live and work next to plants that continue to release more pollution than the law allows.	And one new measure of Pruitts foot dragging thats just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately.	False
Yet fears over rising gas prices proved more convincing to Evergreen State voters.	This story was originally published byHuffPostand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	The loss came as Coloradans voted down Proposition 112 a measure that would have put about 85 percent of non federal land in the Centennial State off limits to oil and gas drilling.	Scientists say such policies are necessary to make the kinds of emissions cuts required to avert the worst impacts of climate change.	The Western States Petroleum Association raised over 31 milliona record for Washington ballot initiativesfor its No campaign spending nearly 30 million of it by the start of this month.	False
Gov.	Republicans cast the deciding votes amid the endorsement of prominent California GOP politicians like former Gov.	Heoutraged the world by exiting the Paris climate agreement.	The passage of this bill is a rare bipartisan victory.	But at the state level politicians are fighting back and nowhere more so than in California.	False
at world leaders at the U.N. General Assembly earlier this year accusing them of failing the younger generation.	Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.'	The 16 year old Swedish face of climate activism made headlines after shouting 'How dare you?'	The businessman denounced the choice as a 'marketing gimmick' and said the prize should have honored 'Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms' his father was also a finalist.	Greta said 'The biggest danger is not inaction the real danger is when politicians and CEOs are making it look like real action is happening when in fact almost nothing is being done apart from clever accounting and creative PR.'	False
People are unhappy and that means they may make irrational decisions.	The research was published in the journal Nature Human Behaviour.	They found a significantly negative correlation between pollution and happiness levels with every increase in pollution above a healthy level bringing happiness down by 0.04 points out of 100.	It suggests that people were four points unhappier than they would have been without polluted levels.	For China pollution can rise into the 700s which could be having a major impact on happiness.	False
Is man having an effect on it?	The question should be you know just how much and what are the policy changes that we need to make to affect that?	Its release hinges on the Trump administrations approval and one scientist who worked on the report told the Times that he and others feared the president would withhold it.	The report delivers a strikingly different message than the one being pushed by Trump and his Cabinet members who continue to downplay the urgency of the threat as they work toward energy dominance.	Yeah we are.	False
'Stopping this study is a ploy to stop science in its tracks and keep the public in the dark about health risks as a favor to the mining industry pure and simple' said Democratic Representative Ral Grijalva of Arizona ranking member of the House Committee on Natural Resources in a statement.	'It's infuriating that Trump would halt this study on the health effects of mountaintop removal coal mining research that people in Appalachia have been demanding for years' Bill Price Senior Appalachia Organizing Representative for Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign said in a statement.	Birth defects were also reported in a 2011 study published in Science Daily.	The Trump administration has halted a study looking at the health risks of mountaintop removal coal mining.	The study had been launched at the request of two West Virginia agencies the state's Department of Environmental Protection and Bureau for Public Health.	False
But there is good news as far as climate change goes.	he said.	Here's why it matters We now have to monitor this glacier carefully.	It's bigger than the U.S. and Mexico combined.	They also had some surprises on the way.	False
Susan Dio chairman and president of BP America supported federal regulation of methane in an opinion piece in the Houston Chronicle earlier this year calling it the the best way to help further reduce and ultimately eliminate methane emissions industrywide.	The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions a major factor in global warming.	President Donald Trump who insists he is an environmentalist has also relaxed rules on carbon emissions from vehicles and intends to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris agreement on climate change.	We simply cannot protect our children and grandchildren from climate catastrophe if EPA lets this industry off scot free said David Doniger a climate and clean energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council.	Some large energy companies including BP favor federal regulation of methane saying the regulatory certainty is preferable to a patchwork of varying rules by states and legal challenges by environmentalists.	True
We believe in the dignity of life and part of that is having a place to live he said.	Personally I buy recycled toilet paper because we can and it's good for the Earth said Andrew Musgrave director of Catholic Social Action at the Archdiocese of Cincinnati and one of the 150 signatories to the letter sent to PG.	It's just unacceptable that a company like PG is making toilet paper a product that is used for seconds and flushed from virgin pulp said Shelley Vinyard boreal corporate campaign manager for the Natural Resources Defense Council and one of several dozen protesters at PG's annual shareholders meeting in Cincinnati Ohio on Tuesday.	When companies make these pledges to be sustainably sourced or use recycled content that's the problem that they're solving.	Musgrave said he learned about the issue of deforestation for toilet paper relatively recently through a member of the congregation and that it was a natural fit with church teachings on preserving the environment.	False
A number of Pruitt policies are thought to be shoddily constructed and have faced significant legal challenges.	Pruitts goals as EPA administrator have centered on crafting or destroying policy in order to establish a friendlier regime for the fossil fuel industry.	Inhofe was among Pruitts biggest fans although the barrage of scandals ultimately began to dim his enthusiasm.	As a New York Times story lays out Murray was the architect of a so called environmental regulations wish list which detailed a list of policies aimed at reinvigorating the coal industry like curbing restrictions on greenhouse gases and slashing staff at the EPA.	As the New York Times points out however there is one crucial way that Wheeler differs from his departing boss.	False
Former President Barack Obama had put in place a rule in 2016 that was connected to a regulatory strategy which sought to reduce methane emissions.	The courts ruling is yet another reminder now in the context of environmental protection that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the presidents desire to order immediate change Richard Lazarus environmental law professor at Harvard Law School said in an email as reported by the Post.	Lazarus continued the DC Circuits ruling today makes clear that neither the president nor his EPA administrator Scott Pruitt can by fiat unilaterally and instantaneously repeal or otherwise stay the effectiveness of the environmental protection rules put into place during the Obama administration.	Two judges concluded the administration record thus makes clear that industry groups had ample opportunity to comment on all four issues on which EPA granted reconsideration and indeed that in several instances the agency incorporated those comments directly into the final rule.	At the time Pruitt was the Attorney General of Oklahoma and he and others sued the EPA to overturn the legislation.	False
This is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights Olson said in court papers.	Aiken said in an Oct. 15 ruling that although the case raised questions about the role of the judiciary delving into a matter of policy those concerns were not enough to warrant a dismissal of the entire case.	There was no indication how Trumps new Supreme Court appointee conservative Brett Kavanaugh voted on the issue.	Circuit Court of Appeals.	Conservative Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch indicated they would have granted the administrations request.	False
Once again the Trump administration has agreed to do the bidding of the worst polluters in our country and once again its putting the health of American families and communities at risk said Michael Brune executive director of Sierra Club.	This sets in motion a welcome correction to a deeply problematic regulation that ignored the careful balance that Congress struck between federal and state water regulation and constitutional limits on federal authority said Hal Quinn NMA president and chief executive.	Trump has called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation and a massive power grab.	But while the rule was applauded by environmentalists for improving drinking water protections and aiding wildlife that relies on wetlands it was attacked by some farmers and golf course operators who claimed it hindered their ability to manage their land.	The Obama administration widened this definition to include the drinking water of about 117 million Americans.	False
Hovenweep is in all of our stories and to threaten the integrity of these structures jeopardizes everything weve carried forward as resilient people.	They argue these lands are abandoned but theyre not we use them in our prayers we visit them.	You wouldnt like it if I went into your home your land and started digging.	When this oil and gas leasing happens on or near sacred lands it risks de stabilizing the bedrock of the structures said Ahjani Yepa a member of Utah Din Bikyah a Navajo grass roots organization.	The Bureau of Land Management would benefit from more community outreach and long term planning to lease parcels on sensitive landscapes said Erika Pollard an associate director with the National Parks Conservation Association.	False
On one side of that debate is a theological argument thats gained prominence in some corners of evangelical Christianity over the past decade.	As a Christian I have a responsibility to try my best to be as wealthy as possible James Wanliss an associate professor of physics at Presbyterian College in South Carolina and the author ofThe Green Dragon Is Global Warming a Religion?	As a Christian thats a problem to me because well aside from the philosophy behind those systems its just again empirically been disastrous.	The position paper called for protecting Gods creation and embracing the governments help in doing so.	Hes written poems lamenting legal abortion.	False
What are we looking for?	Many survivors at Monday's forum and in fire zones where people are returning say they are confused about what authorities will allow them to do at their blackened properties before the massive waste removal.	Laney Wall who lost her home in the Sonoma County community of Fountaingrove asked why homeowners had to go through the expense trouble and wait of the clean up at all.	In Sonoma County the scene of the most destruction and deaths county officials will draft environmental standards to be followed by any homeowners who opt to handle the clean up themselves at their own expense officials said.	Officials pointed to the public health concerns ranging from safety of residents in the burned neighborhoods to concerns for hazardous waste entering waterways and the air.	True
And while theres an element of truth to that it misses the big picture.	This has become a bedrock belief of the modern GOP.	This is the consensus that the vast majority of the Republican Party from donors to politicians to intellectuals to voters has arrived at.	More nuanced pundits and politicians acknowledge that the science is real but argue that even if it is accurate the consequences might not be so bad or that action would simply be too costly.	President Donald Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement has been portrayed in some press coverage as a decision driven by either his personal idiosyncrasies or the policy agenda of White House chief strategist Steve Bannon.	False
But he doesnt care because in his mind its real.	How else to explain last months comments that environmental activists are just like those who were on the beaches in Normandy.	The mechanism Robert Francis is referring to is a democracy.	Its embarrassing.	How does a man who under normal circumstances would be working as a barista in the local coffee shop dole out knowledge of experience on World War II to a Democrat party who eagerly laps it up?	False
Still to be determined whether it was persuasive or consequential.	Leaders of the Roman Catholic Church broached the topic when Trump visited the Vatican.	On the other side President Trump.	And up for debate the peril of climate change and the urgency of the U.S. commitment to the Paris accord to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.	Merkel called the conversation controversial.	False
Its intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that youre talking about.	We dont go into policy but we provide the information for people who want to go further with that.	There are about four different independent data sets we looked at to come to this conclusion Blunden told Yahoo News.	Now they hope the world will listen.	Were scientists and were providing objective information Jessica Blunden a climate scientist at NOAAs National Climatic Data Center in Asheville N.C. told Yahoo News.	False
We cannot accept a status quo where children of color are drinking toxic water in Flint or breathing toxic air in Louisianas Cancer AlleyHarris said in a statement.	People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices.	Mustafa Ali the former head of the EPA environmental justice office noted that the idea of scoring environmental justice impacts is something advocates have pushed for years.	Ali points out an equity score is potentially significant because it helps put up a wall of protections around those communitiesaddingI think its just now starting to gather steam.	This systemic environmental injustice will only get worse and become more ingrained if climate and environmental policies like the Green New Deal do not specifically focus on lifting up these communities.	False
I think that speaks for itself.	The official echoed Can we stay on topic please?	There was a chorus of condemnation from world leaders former president Barack Obama and Trumps defeated election opponent Hillary Clinton who branded it a historic mistake.	I think its a little bit more nuanced than stay in or not.	one said.	False
Democratic Gov.	Courtneys admission is not rewarding Senate Republicans for bad behavior.	On Tuesday some of the Republicans in hiding were not sure what to make of Courtneys statement about the votes.	Kate Brown nonetheless last week sent state police to find the lawmakers and instituted a 500 per day fine per person for each day they werent present at a legislative session.	The Republicans are not standing against climate change theyre standing against democracy she said during a press conference Tuesday.	False
On the question of burning in the Amazon which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money what is the intention?	This is the war we are facing.	It is an international crisis.	Maybe I am not affirming it these NGOs are carrying out some criminal actions to draw attention against me against the government of Brazil.	The decisions and statements from Brazil these recent weeks show clearly that President Bolsonaro has decided to not respect his commitments on the climate nor to involve himself on the issue of biodiversity the spokesperson said.	False
Like the rollback of the Production Safety Systems Rule this effort is all about helping industry.	Rick Scott a staunch Trump supporter he was removing the states coastal waters from consideration.	Donald Boesch a professor of marine science at the University of Maryland who served on the bipartisan commission that investigated the causes of the Deepwater Horizon blowout said easing the safety rules is both premature and ill considered.	In May the Trump administration took aim at the Well Control Rule a safety monitoring regulation meant to prevent the kind of incident that killed 11 workers and resulted in some 200 million gallons of crude oil leaking into the Gulf of Mexico.	The offshore drilling announcement drew immediate outrage from both Democrats and Republicans who expressed concern about possible environmental damage and negative effects on tourism.	False
Asked by international journalists about environmental protection of the Amazon at a press briefing on 6 July he said Brazil is like a virgin that every pervert from the outside lusts for.	Macron cannot even avoid a predictable fire in a church that is part of the world's heritage and he wants to give us lessons for our country?	It's no use pointing the finger at what's wrong without bringing alternatives to people he said.	Asked about Mr Bolsonaro's remarks Mr Macron said they were extraordinarily rude and sad.	Greenpeace France described the G7's response to the crisis as inadequate given the urgency and magnitude of this environmental disaster.	False
A military leader for example said that part of its mission involved creating a positive perception of the country.	And while the fires have been burning for weeks the international outcry grew this week as photographs spread on social media.	Bolsonaro approved the involvement of the military to help put out fires in a televised speech Friday in which he claimed his government would have zero tolerance for environmental crimes.	Protecting the rain forest is our duty he said.	Much of the attention has focused on Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro a long time critic of the countrys environmental regulations who had tried to minimize the effects of the fires.	True
a greener planet and enhanced crop yields.	I can.	Greenhouse Effect Not the Main Driver of Climate Together with these 400 new papers that makes 900 science papers in the last two years casting doubt on global warming.	Here courtesy of Kenneth Richard who has waded through them all are some examples of what they say.	And current emissions mitigation policies especially related to the advocacy for renewables are often costly ineffective and perhaps even harmful to the environment.	False
The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products.	The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages as well as orders requiring the companies to pay abatement costs and to disgorge profits.	The lawsuit contended that the companies sought to refute scientific findings regarding how greenhouse gas pollution was causing climate change and failed to prevent the harm that would result from consumers using fossil fuel products.	The lawsuit by the Democratic attorney general follows similar cases by U.S. cities and local governments arguing the production of fossil fuels had led to rising tides that damaged shorelines roads and other properties requiring remediation.	The lawsuit said that companies also violated the states Environmental Rights Act by polluting and destroying natural resources in Rhode Island.	False
On a broader note Im confused.	But making sense isnt a tenant of the climate religion.	No not really.	In reality New York Citys subway system is a dumpster fire of mismanagement.	Weird how everything just so happens to reinforce her political narrative and now shes back with another hot take.	False
The E.P.A.	In this case the proposed methodology would assume there is little or no health benefit to making the air any cleaner than what the law requires.	Many experts said that approach was not scientifically sound and that in the real world there are no safe levels of the fine particulate pollution associated with the burning of fossil fuels.	had originally forecast that eliminating the Obama era rule the Clean Power Plan and replacing it with a new measure would have resulted in an additional 1400 premature deaths per year.	Fine particulate matter the tiny deadly particles that can penetrate deep into the lungs and enter the bloodstream is linked to heart attacks strokes and respiratory disease.	False
Theyre often communities of color.	Thats the environmentalinjustice and racism that were dealing with and my plan would equip Americans with the tools tofight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what isright now a tremendous injustice he said.	I think about poor communities along the east coast he said.	You all know that oftentimes the first folks that get flooded out are the poorest communities.	He said as former Housing and Urban Development secretary in the Obama administration he found out that 70 percent of HUD funded public or subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site.	False
In a separate legal fight over coal ash the Tennessee Valley Authority the nations biggest public utility last month appealed a federal judges order to clean up decades of coal ash environmentalists say poisoned water in the Volunteer State.	Pat McCrory R signed a bill that dramatically watered down legislation forcing Duke to clean up its coal ash pits without requiring the company to excavate the waste or provide clean water to residents near the pond.	Children are particularly at risk of learning disabilities birth defects asthma and cancer with 1.54 million living near such storage sites according to EPA data cited by the Sierra Club.	In 2016 then Gov.	This is the second biggest toxic pollution threat in our country and we need to clean it up not make things easier for polluters Earthjustice attorney Lisa Evans said in a statement.	False
The lack of transparency and competition in the proxy advisory firm industry gives a small number of businesses significant influence over how corporations deal with environmental issues.	The company has also pledged to review its connections to industry lobbying groups that oppose the Paris agreement a non binding deal crafted in 2015 with the goal of dramatically reducing global carbon emissions over the next 15 years.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Some analyst groups worry activist shareholders use a largely unregulated industry to hoodwink U.S. companies into accepting proposals designed to tackle climate change that carry little long term benefits.RELATEDA Federal Judge Torches Two Lawsuits Trying To Blame Oil Companies For Climate Change So called proxy advisory firms craft disclosure requirements that force companies to show they are taking efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions.	The pledge is a significant change in position for van Beurden who had previously opposed such proposals citing concerns about potential lawsuits.	False
No harm no foul.	Its a no standard standard.	The rollbacks an international signal that were not taking carbon capture and sequestration and reducing impacts from coal seriously said Jay Duffy an associate attorney at the Clean Air Task Force.	But its not regulations that are hurting the US coal industry its competition.	And coal consumption is at its lowest level since 1979.	False
Yet IPCC report authorsframedthis as a problem of political will not economics and technology.	And I think for younger people looking at this are more like how are we saying lets take it easy when 3000 Americans died last year how are we saying lets take it easy when the end person died from our cruel and unjust criminal justice system?	The New Deal.	Thats the line activists and many politicians have taken up in the months since the IPCCs report.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	False
It's cents for a nation like Colombia.	They are essentially living corpses says Colombian scientist Rodrigo Bernal of Colombia's national tree.	Unfortunately there is a loophole to that status he adds.	This tree is beloved by Colombian people everyone knows it is our national tree But nobody knows we are about to lose it.	It's not a huge amount.	False
As well as the fact that we as a country need a project and climate change is as good a one as well ever have.	A lot of the answers are coming from the communities he said.	This story was originally published byGristand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	I thought his point that the timeline is set by science not by politics was compelling Miller said.	Nevertheless some audience members were impressed by Buttigiegs vision of a green America.	True
This is a fudged statistic however.	Wheelers climate denial received some backup at Wednesdays hearing.	It was a brazen if not unexpected stance from the nominee to become the EPAs 15th administrator.	In October the United Nations released a landmark determination that the world has until 2030 to halve global emissions or face catastrophic climate change.	He repeatedly misrepresented his own agencys findings about a rule to gut an Obama era power plant regulation inflating the emissions cuts the new proposal would mandate.	False
If both options were to fail Beykpour suggested we dump this site and move on.	In 2018 the company was accused of illegally disposing of arsenic tainted wastewater from another of its California plants.	According to a 16 count indictment Crystal Geyser discharged the toxic waste into a pond that staff dubbed the arsenic pond and then worked with two waste disposal firms to illegally transport the arsenic to a plant without a license to treat it.	Facebook groups have sprung up to oppose the plant and the local tribal council voted unanimously against it.	In his email Beykpour had claimed the Chronicle was in bed with the opposition.	False
But this announcement disregards well established policies for how visitors can enjoyably and safely experience the backcountry in national parks said Kristen Brengel senior vice president at the National Parks Conservation Association.	For generations weve agreed that there are some places so special that they should be protected for visitors to enjoy away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life.	Park visitors posting in June before the policy was announced on the independent National Parks Traveler web siteexpressed mixed opinions on the expanded use of the electronic bikes.	The change has drawn criticism by park advocates and some trail enthusiasts who say the administration did not do enough to seek public input on a policy that could damagethe park experience for many.	Said Tyler Ray director of policy and advocacy for theAmerican Hiking Society Permitting e bike use on trails that have been thoughtfully and specifically designated as non motorized raises questions of safety and trail sustainability that must be considered.	False
Somewhere somehow the vile stuff gets out and when it does it causes untold damage to the environment.	In doing so they reveal their own selective adherence to scientific reason.	These facts received little coverage the media instead portraying a David and Goliath fight in which virtuous protesters took on a corrupt wealthy industry.	But just as with the recent Dakota Access Pipeline spill the reality is less convenient for their political preferences.	The environmental Left rushed to publicize the incident as an I told you so moment but activists gloating reveals either their cynical dishonesty or their ignorance about how modern pipelines work.	False
And it isnt as has been suggested because weve become so immune to data that numbers arent persuasive anymore.	Its time that we own our mistakes and get real about our shortcomings.	Its time we stop letting it.	The planet isnt going to wait for us to get this right.	Or we could let implicit bias and systemic racism undercut any chance we have at a sustainable future.	False
Former Vice President Al Gore blasted the decision of President Donald Trump to remove the U.S. from the Paris Climate Agreement on Thursday calling it reckless and indefensible.	Gore who has made two documentaries advocating climate change action said in a statement Removing the United States from the Paris Agreement is a reckless and indefensible action.	It undermines Americas standing in the world and threatens to damage humanitys ability to solve the climate crisis in time.	The Paris Climate Agreement is a pact among nearly 200 nations made to voluntarily cut greenhouse gas emissions in an effort to combat climate change.	Gore called the conversation he had with Trump at the time extremely interesting.	False
RELATED Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado However not all scientists agreed.	North Carolina Democratic Gov.	Coopers order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles use more wind and solar energy and cut energy use at state owned buildings.	A strong clean energy economy combats climate change while creating good jobs and a healthy environment said Cooper.	For example the Obama administrations pledge to cut U.S. emissions 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 was only projected toavert 0.001 degrees Celsius of projected global warminga year.	False
There is nothing more powerful than our nations youth marching together demanding action be taken to protect our planet and their future Sen. Kamala Harris D CA wrote.	Its time our leaders listened.	She submitted the United Nations IPCC Special Report on Global Warming as her written testimony writing I am submitting this report as my testimony because I dont want you to listen to me I want you to listen to the scientists.	And I want you to unite behind the science.	To the millions of young people and allies worldwide who are striking today to demand climate justice I stand with you.	False
We face a direct existential threat.	It's a glimmer of hope in a sea of otherwise dire news.	Economic costs associated with such disasters are mounting.	I am appealing for leadership from politicians from businesses and scientists and from the public everywhere U.N. Secretary General Antnio Guterres said when he announced the summit.	Although nearly every nation on the planet including the United States promised to reduce their net greenhouse gas emissions when they signed the Paris Agreement way20170601531048986 so what exactly is in the paris climate accord climate scientists warn that the cumulative pledges are nowhere near sufficient.	False
All three are equally important to human wellbeing.	The body which is meeting this week aims to get all the worlds governments singing from the same sheet about the need to protect natural systems.	That's almost half of the world population.	The warning will come from the awkwardly named IPBES the Intergovernmental Science Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services a panel studying the benefits of nature to humans.	Soil expert Prof Jane Rickson from Cranfield University UK added The thin layer of soil covering the Earth's surface represents the difference between survival and extinction for most terrestrial life.	False
In a word there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earths goods not only of present generations but also of those yet to come he said.	It is also true however that for the peoples concerned a number of activities harmful to the environment at present ensure their survival.	The pope went on to enumerate his vision of the problem while also recognizing that many poor people derive their livelihood from activities that threaten the environment.	Pope Francis has made the care of the environment a central theme of his six year pontificate returning again and again to issues of ecological responsibility the dangers of carbon emissions and the scourge of climate change.	In that text the pontiff said that the earth is beginning to look more and more like an immense pile of filth as once beautiful landscapes are now covered with rubbish.	False
The article detailed aU.N.	Some of the more dire predictions came from Paul Ehrlich a biologist who famously urged population control to mitigate the impacts of humans on the environment.	According to The Salt Lake Tribune Ehrlich warning of a disastrous famine urged placing sterilizing agents into staple foods and drinking water.	But short term predictions weren't a laughing matter in the years following An Inconvenient Truth a documentary produced by former Vice President Al Gore.	In 2008 ABC released an ominous video about what the world would look like in 2015.	False
Occasionally there needs to be an opportunity based on a unique circumstance to ensure that my family are safe it's generally as simple as that.	In my mind it's the right thing to do and we need to make it cool he said.	In September's edition of Vogue edited by Meghan the prince spoke about environmental issues and his love for nature saying We are the one species on this planet that seems to think that this place belongs to us and only us.	The duke said that what is important is what we do to balance out negative effects.	At the launch of Travalyst aimed at encouraging the tourism industry to become more sustainable the duke was asked about his travel behaviour.	False
The area is remote and foreboding the complaint said.	Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oils exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012 which led to a series of problems mistakes and violations of environmental laws.	Some of these animals also support thriving indigenous Alaska Native cultural and subsistence activities stated the complaint.	The lawsuit also argued that Trumps reversal of the ban exceeded his constitutional authority and was thus unlawful.	Its drilling contractor pleaded guilty to eight felony offenses relating to environmental pollution and safety and agreed to pay 12.2 million in fines.	False
Young people and Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma.	I wouldnt even call it compromises.	In August the Democratic National Committee under pressure from unions backtracked on a two month old resolution to ban donations from oil gas and coal companies.	We wanted to make it so it could be an executable idea.	Maintaining legislative power for existing committees with members who might have taken contributions from oil gas and coal donors could pose some risk but would be worth it said Rep.Pramila Jayapal D Wash. the other Progressive Caucus co chair.	False
A third principle a just transition for fossil fuel workers so that no one is left behind and so we show respect and gratitude for all the work they've done to power economy is the decades past.	The green dream or whatever they call it nobody knows what it is but they're for it right?	The lack of specifics could present opportunities and liabilities for presidential candidates.	Small incremental policy solutions are not enough.	In a statement to CBS News on Tuesday Congressman Ral Grijalva Democrat of Arizona confirmed that he will be supporting the resolution after initially being reluctant to back it.	False
The public no tests no international treaties that will stop it.	Clean water has a value.	A tragedy is unfolding in Maharashtra and a money spinning racket for Tanker owners.	Their policies are insufficient in many ways.	Regarding the price of water.	False
Extreme heat makes pollution worse which can be dangerous for the very young the elderly and anyone with respiratory diseases.	And when it gets hotter our thermostats turn lower and the cycle continues.	According to the National Weather Service 21 young children have died in hot cars this year.	The temperatures reached a high of 185F 85C not quite enough for a proper bake but certainly too hot for humans or animals to survive in.	Here's what that sort of heat can do.	False
14.	13.	5.	8.	Jerry Brown.	False
Can't kids just learn without an anti scientific social agenda?	There is a pretty predictable take on climate change propaganda for little kids but that wasn't the worst.	That dubious honor goes to the episode that teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources.	This issue tends to play incredibly well in the mainstream media as they use climate change as the universal bad guy so I'm sure there were plenty of parents who actually thought this episode was a good idea.	Episode 12 Monster Power teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources.Albert one of the students has seen a movie in which the evil monster loves pollution and is coming for us next for what we've done to this planet!	False
One published by Newsweek is a favorite of climate deniers.	The other from 2007 discussed how to survive global warming.	Perhaps not surprisingly his staff seems to share these views.	This climate denier for example	The hoax seems to have had its intended effect on Trump who according to Politico quickly got lathered up about the media's hypocrisy.	False
Last summer the Guardian investigated Trumps coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels.	The estate was at high risk for flooding during heavy rains and storms with water already pooling on the premises in addition to nearby bridges and roads in Palm Beach.	President Donald Trump has called climate change a hoax and a very expensive tax on American businesses that make the US less competitive.	And perhaps even eventually render Trumps Southern White House uninhabitable.	So what would a 10 foot rise in sea levels mean for Florida?	False
These are decisions that impact the presidents ability to make foreign policy decisions Brouillette told TheDCNF.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	FERCs other Democratic commissioner Richard Glick opposed the terminalarguinghis colleagues were deliberately ignoring the consequences that its actions have for climate change.	LaFleur for example called on FERC to factor in estimates like the controversial social cost of carbon for a cost benefit analysis.	Brouillette also stressed the geopolitical implications of LNG exports and the role energy could play in President Donald Trumps foreign policy.	False
Thats not how it works.	Mr. Trump believes that because he doesnt get close enough to the dossiers to fully understand them.	These conversations come at a particularly fraught time because Trump who does not share his predecessor Barack Obamas commitment to clean energy has been reviewing the United States environmental policies.	He said that the law is the law and it must be obeyed regardless of what Trump thinks adding somewhat sardonically that not everything in international agreements is fake news.	Bush in the early 90s.	False
However there was a remarkable lack of participation from individuals in China the planets worst greenhouse gas emitter minus a protest in Hong Kong.	Rep. Adam Kinzinger R IL reiterated that point to Greta Thunberg and the other climate kids who testified before theHouse Committee on Foreign Affairs andSelect Committee on the Climate Crisis on Wednesday.	We also pay attention to the climate and we are also thinking deeply interacting taking action and so many people are very conscientious on this issue she added.	Meanwhile as the West looks at options to combat climate change we all know that Chinas global emissions continue to rise.	Several climate change activists in D.C. decried the U.S. for its role in contributing to climate change despite the fact that the U.S. has made great strides in reducing its carbon output seeing the largest decline in CO2 emissions in the world for 9th time this century in 2017.	False
But her parents didnt.	A few job promises and they get to pollute as much as they want.	Then you know what we get?	Neither did at least 10 other people who lived on her block.	We are being robbed and pillaged by industry Landrum said her voice rising to a preachers righteous crescendo.	False
When you think about what that rule meant it was about picking winners and losers.	That's wrong.	first reported on the repeal proposal.	first reported on the repeal proposal.	The EPA can repeal the Clean Power Plan but not the laws of economics Bloomberg tweeted.	False
Climate is your closet wardrobe.	Currys ultimate conclusion Some of the worst case scenarios strain credulity.	The other side of her thinks were foolish for believing her claim that climate change will destroy the world in 12 years.	Its just the weather in D.C.	The climate crisis is real yall Ocasio said on Instagram.	False
That is hypocrisy.	No more gaslighting.	Dawn Amos meh my dogs are the boss of me February 21 2019 You can't believe science in a selective manner and claim to be pro science.	President Donald Trumps pick to head the committee William Happer once compared the demonization of CO2 to how Jews were characterized in Nazi Germany.	Robert Johnson February 21 2019 When you continue to deny climate science you cant make the claim that you are a driver of science policy.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The law was passed with the intention of aiding in climate change efforts.	In a study titled Biofuels and the Environment The Second Triennial Report to Congress the Environmental Protection Agency EPA determined thatethanol derived from corn and soybeans is causing serious harm to the environment.Water soil and air quality were all found to be adversely affected by biofuel mandates.	Evidence since enactment of the Energy Independence and Security Act suggests an increase in acreage planted with soybeans and corn with strong indications from observed changes in land use that some of this increase is a consequence of increased biofuel production read a portion of the 159 page report.	Corn growers however support the mandate as it drives demand for the product.	True
Where does he get off thinking he's going to stop human progress?	We know that certain oil and gas corporations have been fighting public policy on this issue have been hiding their own science and research at the expense of our climate and human life he said.	economy thefossil fuel industry runs thiseconomy it'screated all of thiswealth revolutionizedtransportation communications industry lifted people out of poverty Watters said.	Watters asked.	OCASIO CORTEZ CALLS CLIMATE CHANGE OUR 'WORLD WAR II' WARNS THE WORLD WILL END IN 12 YEARS So whenever those two things come in contrast or in opposition I'm always going to choose the people of this country.	False
Hunters anglers and target shooters are the best conservationists who contribute so much through the Pittman Robertson and Dingell Johnson Acts said Richard Childress NRA vice president.	On the conservation side however I think it's a much less rosy picture Fosburgh said.	They can become political footballs in our eyes.	Last year they contributed 1.2 billion toward conservation and protecting our natural resources.	The declaration also generated the support of the National Rifle Association.	True
I wasnt interested in that.	I am still not interested in that.	While working for Marco Rubios presidential campaign in February 2016 Wheeler wrote a now deleted Facebook post in which he called Trump a PR person and a bully which he said should alone should disqualify him from the White House.	He will talk to us.	Scott Pruitt was the most scandal plagued cabinet member in an administration rife with corruption said Christy Goldfuss an environment advisor to Obama who is now at the Center for American Progress.	False
have adopted almost precisely as I proposed it in 2008.	Thats why I object to the Democrats as much as to the Republicans.	In February a group of high profile Republicans announced their support for a plan that would tax carbon dioxide emissions in order to slow global warming which they believe to be caused by humans.	If its a tax taken by the government it makes the government bigger and it depresses the economy.	suggest 55 per ton yields a dividend of 1000 per legal resident and 3000 for a family with two or more children with one half share for each child a maximum of two half shares per family.	False
Mother Jonesasked an expert to decipher this nonsense and you can read his analysis here.	Its a breath of fresh air to see science instead of politics inserted into forest and fire management saidKirin Kennedy associatelegislative director for lands and wildlife at the Sierra Club in a statement.	In itthe service writes Of particular concern are longer fire seasons and the rising size and severity of wildfires along with the growing risk to lives homes natural resources and other values.	The report comes at the same time the president has sent out misleading tweets aboutthe causes and solutions of Californias wildfires and as Donald Trumps Interior head Ryan Zinke has blamed fires on environmentalists denied climate change science and called for more logging.	Aswildfirescontinue torageacross the Westduring a brutally hotsummer on Thursday the US Forest Service released itsnewforest fire management strategy thatfocuses on science and thechanging climate.	False
Its a danger to the air we breathe.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	Safe fracking is like clean coal pure fiction Sanders said in a statement Wednesday.	But for me I think the way we get there is we just say sorry guys but by 2035 youre done she said during CNNs town hall.	It causes earthquakes.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Most Republicans dont buy into a carbon tax.	But the White House quickly disavowed the statements allegedly made by the two officials marking the second time in three weeks the Trump administration has had to shoot down carbon tax rumors.	President Donald Trump told the American Energy Alliance in a survey taken during the campaign that he opposed a carbon tax and the Obama administrations social cost of carbon estimate.	Trump also ordered the Environmental Protection Agency EPA to review and possibly rescind the Clean Power Plan the cornerstone of the former administrations global warming agenda.	False
South Carolina Gov.	They spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly before the suit is filed.	Voters said they had been turned off by what they saw as Arrington's flip flop on the issue and they turned instead to Cunningham's consistency.	The government doesn't get to pick winners and losers in this thing Mace said.	State Rep. Nancy Mace a Republican representing parts of the greater Charleston area supports the lawsuit which she called South Carolina's best option to challenge federal government overreach.	False
Whatever the reason we have to be ready to deal with them.	I dont know why he said.	I believe the climate is changing.	However Lengyel waffled on humanitys role in shaping the climate behind these storms.	It also shows that the military is on the front lines of the consequences of rising temperatures.	False
As we use and reuse things it gives us some social engagement status.	But in the booming city of Rio de Janeiro a luxury hotel has been turning trash into treasure for more than a decade long before food waste was at the forefront of anyone's mind.	It helps give other islanders something to think about Ritter explains.	For many hotels simple knowledge of the issue has resulted in greater observance from staff and ultimately less waste.	I think part of the benefit of a detailed audit like this is that it increases everyone's mindfulness about what they are doing with food says Gordon Jackson the manager of the resort's Waste to Wealth initiative.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The administration and its officials regularly disregard the scientific consensus about the harms of climate change in order to justify rolling back regulations and trashing initiatives designed to make the world cleaner and safer.	It is a threat to America and to all of humanity.	And Wheeler's approach ignoring science in favor of industry and pollution is a perfect reflection of Trump's shameful approach to climate issues.	But Trump and his fellow Republicans refuse to acknowledge reality and they certainly can't be bothered to read scientific reports about it.	False
But adults must do everything not to bring teenagers and children into some extreme situations.	And some individuals were even more scathing with sick trolls branding her the little girl with mental problems and others suggesting shes not sexy enough in vile rants.	She already has an honour to her name after winning Amnesty International's highest Ambassadors of Conscience human rights award last month.	The Russian president claimed its hypocritical to lecture poorer countries on the environmental impact of their bids to become more developed like the West.	She raged People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing we are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and the fairy tale of endless economic growth.	True
That was the right thing to do.	The Trump Administration's persistent and indefensible denial of climate change and their continued assault on actions essential to stemming its increasing devastation is reprehensible and I will use every available legal tool to fight their dangerous agenda said Schneiderman a Democrat.	This president has tremendous courage Pruitt said Monday.	The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants.	HAZARD Ky. AP A coalition of left leaning states and environmental groups are vowing to fight the Trump administration's move to kill an Obama era effort to limit carbon emissions from coal fired power plants.	False
It's in their drinking water and it's in their soil.	That includes financial help to make sure that happens.	Administrator Pruitt was working for environmental justice by meeting with the real residents affected by lead contamination and by committing to get results.	Instead of digging up two feet of contaminated soil for disposal digging up eight feet.	One week ago the local chapter of the NAACP said it invited Pruitt to a roundtable discussion on environmental justice which happened Wednesday morning.	False
It can be summed up in one word confusion.	Sometimes it appears to be a result of ineptitude other times it appears to be tactical.	They seem not to have read it.	Then came the election of Donald Trump.	So Tillersons perception that the Paris accord is not good for China or the United States was not shared by the two nations leaders.	False
The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	So how do climate activists get their way?	The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN but it is far from sound science or even good economics.	False
Last yearSens.	There is near universal agreement that putting a price on carbon dioxide likely through a tax is key to scaling back emissions in much the same way levies on tobacco and alcohol are meant to offset those products societal costs.	But for some conservative climate hawks the reality of the IPCC report hit home.	Asked where the line is between what critics said was the previous administrations federal overreach and attempting to stave off the worst of what the IPCC predicted Flint went quiet for a while.	Failing to do so would be cataclysmic.	False
The essay by Nathan Schneider appearing in the May 31 issue of America titled Trumps war on the environment is a war on the young and the unborn makes the incredible case that withdrawing from the Paris agreement constitutes a war on future generations tantamount to genocide.	That doesnt put them at war with the environment and much less at war with the young and the unborn.	No matter that historically the environmentalist movement has been closely allied with the population control movement literally waging a war on the unborn through its promotion of vigorous anti natality programs and abortion on demand.	To judge a particular accord as contrary to the nations interests on the other hand is hardly a war on the environment.	The fact that a president keeps his promises is usually considered a good thing.	False
With this report the Lung Association also calls out Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency EPA for ongoing threats to the nations air quality including steps to roll back or weaken enforcement of the Clean Air Act.	Forget the Golden State.	The report looked at pollution levels from 2014 to 2016.	Overall the report said about133 million Americans more than four of 10 live with unhealthful levels of air pollution placing them at risk for premature death and other serious health effects such as lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	SinceCalifornia is known for its strict environmental regulations why are so many cities from the state typically on this list?It's because the state would be far worse off without its strict laws on tailpipe pollution and eliminating coal fired power plants.	False
It's hard not to think there's an element of spite in this rhetoric as wealthy and influential Californians led talk of secession following Trump's 2016 election victory.	Trump a proud climate change skeptic attributes the fires to lousy management.	As for the water it's Trump vs. the Delta smelt an endangered fish scientists argue can only be saved if the dammed waters are allowed to flow into the ocean instead of being used to irrigate the farms and homes of California residents.	It's not a good week for the Delta smelt.	Speaking at a White House address on Tuesday Trumpwas shocked that Californians weren't using the water contained by their dams to put out the fires and irrigate their fields.	False
The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate.	Asked for comment the Department of Justice pointed to comments made by Jeffrey Wood a political appointee at the DOJ handling environmental cases who spoke about the Juliana case at a law conference last week.	But then the childrens lawsuit is an unusual case.	The local governments are citing nuisance statutes and seeking money from oil companies to pay for damages caused by climate change whereas the childrens case is trying to force the government to enact policies to curb greenhouse gas emissions.	Ann Carlson a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests theres something there that piques the courts interest.	False
And the idea that you're signing up for some type of agenda I don't want to ... send a signal that that's what I'm doing because I'm not doing that DeSantis said .	CNN Republican Florida Gov.	We're going to do what works.	My environmental policy is just to do things that benefit Floridians.	We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future?	False
The question is what are we going to do about it and at what cost?	Thanks for this hearing.	There are a number of factors that contribute to that including human activity.	Christina DeConcini director of government affairs for the environmental group World Resources Institute said the US needs a fact based approach for how to address this clear and present danger to America's infrastructure homes and businesses.	Sea level rise and coastal flooding driven by climate change pose real significant risks to our residents and should not be politicized he said.	False
Todays decision is a disappointing continuation of a historic pattern Other people get all the profits and the tribes get all the risk and harm said Jan Hasselman an Earthjustice attorney representing the tribe in an ongoing federal lawsuit through which Standing Rock and three other tribes still hope to shut down the pipeline.	That aims to ensure development projects arent built in areas where minority populations might not have the resources to defend their rights.	The judge said the Corps also didnt adequately study how the pipeline might disproportionately affect the tribal community a concept known as environmental justice.	Boasberg in his ruling Wednesday said that issue was a closer call than the others but that it still did not justify shutting down the pipeline.	Boasberg ruled on June 14 that the Corps largely complied with environmental law but he ordered the agency to reconsider certain areas of its analysis and took arguments on whether to shut down the 1200 mile 1930 kilometer pipeline while the work is done.	False
They say the president favours development over conservation.	But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a dramatic fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes.	Far right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe.	Over the past decade previous governments in Brazil had managed to reduce deforestation with concerted action by federal agencies and a system of fines.	Mr Bolsonaro who in July dismissed a similar Inpe report as flawed has not commented on the latest data.	False
They knew or should have known that this harmful compound would reach groundwater pollute drinking supplies render drinking water unusuable and unsafe and threaten the public health and welfare stated the complaint which claims an underground storage tank likely held the chemical.	At contention is whether the cancer causing chemical hexavalent chromium or chromium 6 came from the base which was designated a federal Superfund site in 1987 for 326 contaminated sites identified for cleanup.	Plaintiffs argued that as far back as 1984 McClellan had burn and burial pits trenches and unlined ponds and ditches contaminated with chemicals.	Sacramento Suburban seeks to recover the substantial costs necessary to protect the public and restore its damaged drinking water supply the water districts lawsuit filed in federal court in Sacramento says as part of its claim seeking 1.1 billion in damages.	Chrome 6 is a highly toxic compound and it shouldnt be in the water Victor Sher a San Francisco environmental attorney representing the plaintiffs said Tuesday.	False
I have decided that it is appropriate and in the public interest to reconsider the rule Pruitt wrote in a letter sent Wednesday to counsel for a utility group and officials at the U.S. Small Business Administration SBA.	UWAG and others argued the rule violated the Clean Water Act and Administrative Procedures Act.	To an unprecedented extent the Agency withheld fundamental information purporting to justify the Rule UWAG argued adding that included pages of the record that demonstrably were not entitled to confidential treatment.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Trumps attempt to halt these clean water protections for mercury lead and arsenic from coal power plants is dangerous and irresponsible said Mary Anne Hitt the director of the Sierra Clubs Beyond Coal campaign.	False
This is something thats happening now and needs to be addressed now.	Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because climate change is an issue that affects every other issue agriculture the economy including tourism.	Kim Ross ReThink Energy Florida leader resident witnessed people in her communityinTallahasseefeeling helpless after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster which damaged Gulf Coast ecosystems.	This isnt something in the future Ross says.	Though not an extensive conversation that was still more time spent talkingabout climate change than in all of threedebates combined between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump in 2016.	False
L1N1KU0UP	In a diplomatic cable that Reuters obtained last month Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said U.S. diplomats should sidestep questions from foreign governments on how the United States plans re engage in the global Paris climate agreement.	Republican Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lamar Alexander of Tennessee voted in favor as did all committee Democrats except for West Virginias Joe Manchin.	Democratic Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon the amendments author said on Twitter on Thursday Despite dangerous decision unwillingness to act we can will fight back to combat The amendment passed 16 14.	WASHINGTON Reuters The U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee passed a spending bill on Thursday evening that includes 10 million to help fund the United Nations climate change body that oversees the Paris Climate Agreement despite President Donald Trumps decision to stop funding it.	False
California Democratic Gov.	Fire is not necessarily bad for forests.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	Combined with drought insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality the op ed continues.	But theres been a change in fire behavior over the last century as the state and federal government began dousing the blazes.	False
She calls for a World War II scale mobilization that includes high quality education and health care clean air and water and safe affordable housing.	Ocasio Cortez said in a statement that the plan will create unprecedented levels of prosperity and wealth for all while ensuring economic and environmental justice and security.	The resolution does not include a price tag but some Republicans predict it would cost in the trillions of dollars.	A news conference at the Capitol is set for Thursday the day they introduce the resolution.	Trump who has expressed doubts about climate change also is likely to oppose it.	False
The transition to accessible and clean energy is a duty that we owe toward millions of our brothers and sisters around the world poor countries and generations yet to come the pope said.	The pope said meeting the energy needs of everyone on the planet must be done in ways that avoid creating environmental imbalances resulting in deterioration and pollution that is gravely harmful to our human family both now and in the future.	Civilization requires energy but energy must not destroy civilization he implored.	Frances also recalled his own appeal in the Laudato Si encyclical for an energy policy aimed at averting disastrous climate changes that could compromise the well being and future of the human family and our common home.	Francis said that modern society with its massive movement of information persons and things requires an immense supply of energy.	False
Experts say the answer lies in their herd like behaviour.	This particular species seems to be very prone to that herd behaviour.	It's a problem you get with these very social animals that tend to for reasons we have never been clear on end up following either a sick leader onto the beach or end up getting lost as a group Dr Brownlow says.	It's probably not anything to do with what humans have done.	So what could be behind these cases?	False
Our community and our planet are under attack yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate.	Its now or never.	Inslee urged Congress and the US Department of Transportation to implement even tougher regulations including lower speed limits for high hazard flammable trains and to use safer cars that are strong enough to protect volatile contents from the heat of a fire or the impact of a collision.	While federal regulators acknowledge the risks of crude by rail they have taken few steps toward increasing safety Inslee wrote in an op ed for the Columbian last year.	Were up against the wire and nobody no politician no agency no industry is stepping up to resolve the climate crisis Mike one of the protesters locked to a flower pot said in a statement.	False
You're just a garden variety hypocrite like the others.	You would bring about mass death.	House Speaker Nancy Pelosi brushed it aside in an interview with Rolling Stone on Thursday saying it goes beyond what our charge is.	Living in the world as it is isnt an argument against working towards a better future.	An early overview of the plan since removed from Ocasio Cortez website promised economic security for all who are unable or unwilling to work swore to sideline the private sector in all environmental decision making and even vowed to eliminate farting cows.	False
But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Like this story?	wondered one user.	Not sure after tonight who has less time to live Biden or the planet said one.	False
Its not just rhetoric.	Now it looks like were condemned to repeat it.	Thats despite the fact that the 38 page document projects more frequent and more expensive disasters.	President Trump wants the United States to back out of the Paris climate agreement and the EPA is working to undo the main policy for restricting greenhouse gases the Clean Power Plan.	The damages from the hurricanes heat waves wildfires and tornadoes in 2017 cost at least 306 billion.	False
When capitalism stumbles badly producing degraded lands and gaping inequalities socialistic solutions rise in popularity because their incentives are not tied to profits.	The socialist sobriquet stokes ideological fires but douses historical understanding.	He united a biological and social vision for forestry one where human happiness and decent livelihoods might sprout from robust forests.	Marshalls closing line argues for that perspective The time has come when we must discard the unsocial view that our woods are the lumbermens and substitute the broader ideal that every acre of woodland in the country is rightly a part of the peoples forests.	TheGreen New Dealand its proponents aim to tackle the intertwined issues of social and environmental justice in our age of anthropogenic climate change.	False
This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you me and the whole world.	And so what happens to these forests truly affects all life on Earth.	Meet the trees get to know their superpowers and learn how scientists are trying to protect them.	We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster not just locally but globally.	False
I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice.	I believe I am the only person here who will say unequivocally this is my number one priority Steyer continued.	I know that we have to deal with this crisis.	Steyer then claimed he had previously taken on oil companies and beaten them on environmental laws and pushed clean energy across this country.	Democrat presidential candidate and billionaire Tom Steyer once again vowed to declare a state of emergency over the climate crisis America faces during the sixth Democrat presidential debate at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles California.	False
While calling Wheeler certainly qualified for this position Collins said some of the policies he has proposed as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	Though not as controversial or ethically compromised as PruittWheeler is opposed by a number of environmental groups who sharply criticize the president's aggressive efforts to undo Obama era rules they say are designed to protect the environment and address climate change.	As you can see we're continuing the president's agenda post haste.	It's a sad day for public health and the EPA but missionaccomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries Ken Cook president of the Environmental Working Group said in a statement following the vote.	While leading President Donald Trump's deregulatory agenda Wheeler also has emphasized the agency's work to clean up Superfund sites and for the first time begin regulating a set ofharmful chemicalsfound in drinking water systems that serve millions of Americans.	False
It's made us more sustainable environmentally and also economically.	There's no question it's better than putting it in the trash Franczyk says.	His hope is that the concept will spread here.	It's an industrial strength grinder that gobbles up all the scraps of food the store can't sell explains Karen Franczyk who is the sustainability program manager for Whole Foods' North Atlantic region.	While Whole Foods donates a lot of surplus food to food banks there's a lot waste left over.	False
California Gov.	As president I have one obligation and that obligation is to the Americanpeople Trump said during a speech in theRose Garden announcingthe decision.	The internationalagreement which was signed in 2015 and went into effect seven months ago is considered a major part theenvironmental legacy of the Obama administration.	Michael A. Needham chief executive officer of the conservative Heritage Action for America applauded the president's move.	Jerry Brown said he hopes Trump's insane move to back out of the Paris accord will spur others to action.	False
It is the most destructive threat to America and mankind.	The controversy reemerged after the first round of Democratic debates last week.	Climate received 15 minutes of discussion over two nights but the largely superficial discussion of the issue only seemed to strengthen the activists case as key policy proposals such as the Green New Deal and 100 percent renewable energy mandates were virtually ignored.	The result was a pair of resolutions that could come up for a vote at the partys August meeting.	Heres what each of the candidates have said Biden addressed a Greenpeace activist at a campaign rally in Ottumwa Iowa on June 11 Thats what we should be doing he said.	False
This is absolution for those who want to feel green but cant be bothered with going to the effort and expense of actually living their own values.	Personal sacrifice is of little consequence so why even try?	We should make it clear that personal environmental stewardship is not only more effective it is a more moral way to live.	Why progressives refuse to live by their own Earth Day bluster George Monbiot recently expressed a carefully calibrated environmental message that allows people on the environmental left to feel self righteous without making any real sacrifice.	Individual actions are mere bollocks useless gestures.	False
Its the right thing to do.	One area where the Texan came down strong No limits on the meat industry despite calls from the United Nations for people to change their diet to avoid more damage to global land use.	He said the government should help people move but avoided answering a question from the moderator Don Lemon about whether some areas were simply too risky for human habitation.	I reject any notion that we have to radically or fundamentally change how we eat or what we eat I think we just have to be more responsible in the way that we do it and the best way to do that is to allow the market to respond by setting a price on carbon he said.	Its the best way to send a pricing signal.	False
I consider it to be an issue that has to be addressed globally.	Substantively I think you have your thumb wrist forearm and elbow on the scale Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse D RI told Wheeler referring to Wheelers past work as a coal lobbyist.	One thing thats important on the regulatory side is that we dont try to tip the scale one way or the other for example on energy sources he said.	When Sen. Jeff Merkley D OR asked Wheeler how he rated climate change in importance on a scale of 1 to 10 Wheeler said it was 8 or 9.	I do consider myself a conservationist he said.	False
That is shameful and that is cowardly Margolin said.	I agree that we need to ensure that we move forward in a sustainable rational manner said Graves.	But his idea of what that means is very different than the activists' vision.	Can you really look them in the eye and say 'No sorry I couldn't do anything because that country over there didn't do anything so if they're not going to do it then I'm not.'	A Washington Post Kaiser Family Foundation poll this week shows a majority of teenagers believe human caused climate change will cause harm to them.	False
He is the only candidate to put out an animal and wildlife welfare policy which seeks to end euthanasia for household dogs and cats and strengthen protections for endangered species.	But nearly all have policy proposals that drive home the need for the nation to be a better environmental steward.	We need to connect the dots Castro said Wednesday.	We can do that.	Her policy vision unveiled in April includes overturning Trumps land rollbacks a moratorium on oil and gas leases on federal land and recruiting 10000 youth and veterans for a 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps.	False
One found that avoiding meat and dairy products was the single biggest way to reduce an individuals environmental impact on the planet.	Recent scientific studies have found that huge reductions in meat eating are essential in order to cut greenhouse gas emissions and avoid dangerous climate change.	The development marks a further step forward for a nascent industry that aims to provide people with real meat without the environmental impact and welfare problems of intensive livestock production.	The Israeli food technology startup Aleph Farms grew the meat on the International Space Station 248 miles 399 km away from any natural resources.	We are proving that cultivated meat can be produced anytime anywhere in any condition said Didier Toubia co founder and chief executive of Aleph Farms.	False
Energy and investment executives who met with Pope Francis earlier in June stood mostly in agreement that a tax on carbon emissions is the best path forward to combating climate change.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The leader of the Catholic Church encouraged executives to give up fossil fuels and embrace renewable energy technology.	Majority Whip Steve Scalise and West Virginia Rep. David McKinley introduced a House resolution in April that explicitly condemns a tax on carbon dioxide pollution.	While carbon tax proposals appeared popular at the Vatican it has not garnered the same amount of support in Congress.	False
People who want to ban golden rice or other GMOs people who deny that a fetus is a whole human people who insist fetal pain is a myth people who get outraged by claims that say men cant get pregnant.	Both GLAAD and Human Rights Watch cant seem to decide whether the science is bad because its fake and flawed or bad because it might work.	They dont refuse to take medical treatment or prescribed drugs.	Anyway what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning.	Etc.	False
I think some kind of major flood happened all over the world and it left an indelible imprint on the collective memory of mankind that got preserved in these stories.	In the Epic of Gilgamesh waters so overwhelm the mortals that the gods grow frightened too Gillis wrote In Indias version Lord Vishnu warns a man to take refuge in a boat carrying seeds.	In the Bible God orders Noah to carry two of every living creature on his ark.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	I dont think the biblical deluge is just a fairy tale Terence Hughes a retired glaciologist told Gillis.	False
Lets help bring the death knell to this industry thats done so much harm.	NYCs lawsuit does appear to suggest the intent is not to destroy but rather to mitigate harm.	Andreally what were trying to do is affect the bottom line the financial equation for the use of fossil fuels she said.	The City does not seek to impose liability on Defendants for their direct emissions of greenhouse gases anddoes not seek to restrain Defendants from engaging in their business operations the city wrote in its complaint.	Judge John Keenan wrote in hisopinionat the time that legislative branch was the appropriate arena to address global warming.	False
If Curbelo had been half the climate champion he claims he is he wouldnt be desperately seeking an ad littered with lies such as this said Sierra Club PAC Director Sarah Burton in a statement.	The ad was released on Oct. 30 and immediatelynational environmental groups that generally align with Democrats called foul underscoring their support of Curbelos Democratic challenger Debbie Mucarsel Powell.	While he broke ranks this summer to express his support for a carbon tax as a possible way to combat climate change more than 30 of Curbelos Republican colleagues on the caucus supported a symbolic measure that disavowed a carbon tax.	In one of South Floridascongressional districts the party machine swept in to prop up a two term incumbent by painting his opponent as a puppet of fossil fuel interests and dirty coal money.	The only catch?	False
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	It was only about past events.	AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING NEW STUDY FINDS What this suggests is that its a feedback loop said the study's lead author Alice Marzocchi.	The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	False
Environmental groups generally support the resolution.	They've got to get an answer to us by Feb. 26 or face the consequences warns Ornstein.	We need not to discourage them she says.	They need to do a whole lot more homework and much more research and analysis before we can ever even really engage in this discussion says Colin Woodall senior vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association.	Jeremy Ornstein 18 says he deferred going to college to work with the organization.	False
Earlier this year TrumptappedHapper to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting adversarial scientific peer review of climate science part of the administrations relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis.	He has called climate science a cult claimed Earth is in the midst of a CO2 famine and said the demonization of carbon dioxide isjust like the demonization of the poor Jewsunder Hitler.	He has long argued that the planet and humans benefit from increased carbon dioxide emissions.	The CO2 Coalition a right wing think tank that Happer co founded and that argues Earth benefits from humans pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere confirmedhis upcoming resignation in a Tuesday post to its website and praised him for his efforts.	While your proposed review of alarmist analyses and projections has been delayed we believe your work in calling attention to the problem of unscientific climate alarmism has reduced the chances of the dramatic increases in energy prices that would arise from the banning of fossil fuels that some have proposed Patrick Moore and Caleb Rossiter two representatives of the CO2 Coalition wrote in a joint statement.	False
I want clean water I want a wealthy country.	And that's what we're doing.	We've become much richer country and that's a good thing not a bad thing because that great wealth allows us to take care of people' Trump said.	That never materialized.	'We can take care of people that we couldn't afford taking care of the past because of the great wealth we can't let that wealth is taken away clean air clean water thank you very much everybody I appreciate it thank you' he concluded.	False
Do you know what?	Even you.	But before you ring up your grandchildren and warnthem to cancel the marquee theyve booked for their 100th birthday celebrations perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothmans cheery prediction.	In the geologic past this type of behavior is associated with mass extinction.	R i g h t. So what youre saying Dr Rothman is that youre allowing plus or minus 10000 years leeway for this mass extinction which wont definitely happen but which may happen.	False
It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self reinforcing cycle takes over.	A link to a number of papers since 2015 showing dramatic climate change globally and in particular with extremes at the poles is still controversial to some.	Recently a policy briefing from the world leading Woods Hole Research Center has moved our understanding of this risk further through a clearly written summary.	We have known this since 2007.	Consequently an initial warming leads to more emission leading to more warming and more emission.	False
It informs decision makers.	Scientific evidenceand input iscrucial to policy efforts.	This type of political interference or scientific censorship whatever you want to call it is ill advised and does a real disservice to the American peopleand public health.	So there is no reason for it to have to be this way.	We can debate the issues we can have different viewpointsbut we should all be able to objectively examine the data and look at the evidence ... Now is not the time to turn a blind eye to what science is telling us that climate change and other factors are influencing the health of this estuary ...	False
When the Times doesnt challenge a pro life message better read closely.	He presents himself as a man who is pro life.	If he is a good pro life believer he must understand that family is the cradle of life and one must defend its unity said Francis who in the past has said that advocates like Mr. Trump of a wall to keep out migrants on the Mexican border were not Christian.	Man is stupid the Bible said he said.	Then he said decide and history will judge the decisions.	False
Putting a price on carbon can help change the behavior of polluters.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	While the bill has little chance of passing it is intended to spark a debate over carbon pricing as the Democratic Party prepares to take over the lower chamber of Congress.	Altogether 13 GOP members of the bipartisan climate group lost their elections and numerous others chose to retire.	In order to shield citizens from higher fossil fuel prices revenue from the tax would be given back out to households.Sponsors of the legislation believe it would slash greenhouse gas emissions by one third over a 10 year period and a 90 percent cut by 2050 compared to 2015 emission levels.	False
Its pure unadulterated selfishness.	Trump and Pruitt and others of their ilk might have greed and corruption as motives.	Get real.	And there you have it.	This is why deniers exist.	False
They make surrounding communities less healthy and less safe.	We would work it out.	Its a danger to the air we breathe.	They must be immediately banned.	No.	False
Early on under Jurisdiction the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national industrial economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality.	So whats actually in it?	Under Scope of the Plan a section on labor states the committees final plan shall Require strong enforcement of labor workplace safety and wage standards that recognize the rights of workers to organize and unionize free of coercion intimidation and harassment and creation of meaningful quality career employment.	Editors Note This post has been updated with grammatical fixes.	More Ocasio Cortez sees this plan is being a vehicle through which social equality might finally realized through theuse of reparations to right historicalinjustices.	False
People across the world must rise to save the planet.	If there was one time in the history when I would say governments fucked up I would say today in Madrid governments fucked up said Mohamed Adow Director of Power Shift Africa.	I have never seen such a disconnect between what the science requires and the people of the world demand versus what the climate negotiations are delivering Alden Meyer strategy and policy director at the Union of Concerned Scientists told AFP.	Alexandria Villasenor a 14 year old climate activist said she was disappointed in the lack of action at COP 25.	It isn't reflective of the kids who are demonstrating on the streets the world over communities being washed away by rising sea levels he said late Saturday.	False
The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	So how do climate activists get their way?	The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN but it is far from sound science or even good economics.	False
Justin Haskins Jhaskins is executive editor of The Heartland Institute and the co founder of StoppingSocialism.com.	Either way you should stick to what the best available science says not the fear mongering of anti conservative zealots.	This is total nonsense.	However the cause of this increase is debated and there is low confidence in attribution of changes in tropical cyclone activity to human influence.	The Washington Posts editorial board in an article titled Yes you can blame President Trump for Hurricane Florence even went so far as to say Trump was complicit for the storm.	False
