This followed an article published byNewsweek in which two psychologists mused on the human taboo against cannibalism noting thatphilosophers have argued that burying the dead could be wasteful in the context of the fight against world hunger.	Cannibalism for the climate thats how far theyve gone!	Population control is another solution embraced by geniuses on the left.	Absent from Bernies argument in favor of curbing the population was an acknowledgment of what itll do to the economy and public services two things that the socialist senator allegedly cares about.	This dystopian idea attracted attention recently after Bernie Sanders brought it up at the last Democrat presidential debate saying people need to be need to curb population growth.	True
When do they want it?	Fifth to end oppression and bring about the redistribution of power.	Fourth to secure healthy food and a livable climate for everyone.	What do they want?	Second to guarantee millions of good high wage jobs and economic security.	False
Like this story?	Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers.	Trump is selling off our oceans and selling out coastal communities and marine life to the oil industry said Kristen Monsell oceans program legal director at the Center for Biological Diversity.	The Center for American Progress a left leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement saying in a statement that offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources.	he said.	False
Thats why we need a to fundamentally transform our society Markey added.	The world must wake up.	Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and Sen. Ed Markey retweeted links to a report signed by more than 11000 scientists who argue that the population must be stabilizedand ideally gradually reducedwithin a framework that ensures social integrity.	So must the solution.	Citizens generally are more concerned about getting a good education obtaining better healthcare and achieving political freedoms than they are tackling climate change according to a 2015 survey from the United Nations.	False
Were addressing the issue.	He added that were the cleanest weve ever been.	Administration officials havetouted these declines to explain their push to boost fossil fuels as well as to defend the presidentsdecision last year to withdraw the U.S. from the historic Paris accord on combating climate change.	Everyone else is up he said referring to other countries overall emissions.	We have our own plan.	False
We cant sit back and just do nothing while people are getting sick and dying especially when you know theres another way.	My message to you Mr. President is that as a public servant and especially as a president your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people Schwarzenegger begins.	The trouble is President Trump would heartily agree with Schwarzeneggers point while perhaps debating the exact statistics.	But this has nothing to do with the Paris climate accord.	Meanwhile he should probably think about terminating that video.	False
Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality.	It declares climate change a national emergency envisions building new solar wind and geothermal power sources across the country and commits 200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	He is bestowing that same name upon his new plan which calls for the United States to eliminate fossil fuel use by 2050.	Mr. Sanders unveiled his proposal one day after Gov.	WASHINGTON Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a 16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet warming greenhouse gases.	False
Thats what good government looks like.	Republicans and Democrats set aside their differences came together and took courageous action.	California is once again showing Washington DC and the rest of the world that fighting climate and air pollution is the right thing for our health economy and future said Fred Krupp president of the Environmental Defense Fund.	But other climate activists declared themselves pleased with the outcome pointing out that it showed that action to reduce emissions is bipartisan and popular.	Defendants have known for nearly 50 years that greenhouse gas pollution from their fossil fuel products has a significant impact on the Earths climate and sea levels the complaint states.	False
California Gov.	We're for clean air and water but at the same time we're for reasonable regulations Deputy Interior Secretary David Bernhardt told reporters.	Its bloody combat.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Its bad and how we counteract it is with a climate summit with normal people respecting the truth and communicating that with other normal people and combating the President of the United States in what are lies distortions and quite frankly bizarre behavior.	False
Formerly owned by Hollywood legend Marlon Brando who was keen that it should become an ecological haven it has now developed in to a hideaway for the rich and famous seeking conscience soothing holidays that do less harm to the planet.	Technology could help here too.	But you'd be surprised.	It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market but The Brando proves it is possible says Prof Graham Miller who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey.	Led by Dr Herv Bossin of the Institut Louis Malard the programme breeds and releases non biting male mosquitoes infected with a Wolbachia virus that makes wild females who do bite sterile.	False
We need to know what kind of impact this corporate favoritism is having on average Americans' health and quality of life.	Some of the biggest items on its agenda include withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement expanding drilling on federal lands and watering down rules ranging from limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants to fuel efficiency in cars and trucks.	The Trump administration has targeted dozens of rules.	The Trump administration has spent two years giving away the store to fossil fuel companies and Republicans in Congress cheered every step of the way says Grijalva.	President Donald Trump set in motion a vast rollback of energy climate and environmental regulations during his first two years in office.	False
My question is Why us?	How are they going to get there?	There are a lot of folks who simply wont do the move.	If we have the most industry and we do the most enforcement and get the greatest results what better way to disembowel the EPA than going after Region 5?	And in a visit last week to East Chicago Indianawhich is grappling with a lead contamination crisis affecting both the water and soil Pruitt reportedly denied to a resident of the town that Region 5 was on the chopping block.	False
Permitting 16 year old children to obtain abortions without parental consent is also on the docket for Virginian Democrats.	21 states that A minor shall be deemed an adult for the purpose of consenting to Medical or health services related to abortion birth control pregnancy or family planning except for the purposes of sexual sterilization.	HB 145 mandates that the Virginia Department of Education come up with school board model policies concerning the treatment of transgender students in public elementary and secondary schools that address common issues regarding transgender students in accordance with evidence based best practices.	Some of the proposed specifics are harmless such as section 3 which says that the developed policies should prevent and respond to bullying and harassment.	Prior to this bill Virginia Code 16.1 241 required minors to have the permission of a guardian before having an abortion.	False
To be honest it wasn't thought to be the policy priority at the time.	These are among the conclusions that some might reach from this latest work.	In reality nothing is quite that straightforward.	But unlike those figures which relied on one line of evidence the new study uses multiple approaches to examine the question and comes up with a rather different result.	Perhaps it should have been but that was the view of the academic community then.	False
As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of carbon footprints and preaching renewable energy they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world.	If the human race wants a future that looks like utopia and not dystopia it needs to address such concerns Lagarde said predicting that in 50 years time oil will be a secondary commodity since green energy will have moved into prominence.	Whereas the Paris Climate Accord prates about greenhouse gas emissions it never once mentions the word pollution in the entire 27 pagedocument.	Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today the study found but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwide three times more deaths than from AIDS tuberculosis and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence.	Most signatories Solomon notes in an essay in last Fridays Financial Post are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios.	False
It isnt just a coincidence that this is no longer the reality in our country.	The Obama administration claimed it was in the interest of water quality but it was really about power power in the hands of the federal government over landowners Wheeler said.	The issue has often come down to the definition of navigable waters under the Clean Water Act.	Polluters were allowed to dump toxic waste into our waterways without consequence.	In a Roosevelt Room ceremony with farmers and lawmakers at the time Trump called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation.	False
It is inherently political like everything else Its in the U.S. Constitution Article 1 Section 8 to promote the progress of science and useful arts.	Nye had a reminder for the Trump administration I just want to remind the administration that science is political.	Donald Trump isnt just shirking his constitutional responsibility to advance scientific innovation but hesputting at risk the only planet we have.	As thousands of activists and scientists around the world gather to March for Science Bill Nye has a U.S. Constitution lesson for Donald Trump that proves he must advance scientific causes.	And my interpretationof the expression useful arts is engineering.	False
We demand climate action that addresses historic injustices by pricing pollution and investing in solutions that improve economic and environmental conditions in front line communities.	These are the inextricable demands of a resistance as powerful as it is diverse and as strong as it is resilient.	Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people.	Our hope rests not in convincing the willfully ignorant to change their ways but in the coming together of broad based peoples movements prepared to act to take back the initiative moving from resistance to power.	Our policy developed in partnership with mainstream environmental groups labor unions public health organizations and other stakeholders represents some of the best of what a unified national resistance could create Comprehensive equitable action against the biggest existential threat of our generation climate change.	True
Each of these is an outrageous moral failure.	Assuring that all have life liberty and the pursuit of happiness is a fundamental moral commitment that we share as citizens working together for the common good of all people and the whole creation.	The following post written by The Rev.	And still repugnant Republicans put profits over people and stupid over scientific data.	Without a habitable environment that is safe from toxic waste harmful chemicals and dangerous carbon dioxide emissions leading to an ever warming planet how can anyone be assured of life liberty and the pursuit of happiness?	False
Whats the takeaway from all this?	They ask each of us to do what it takes to avoid collapsing or descending into chaos.	Pre Extinction Powerful and suggests another mass extinction is imminent if we do not change our ways today.	The Great Collapse The collapse of ecosystems economies and our way of life.	Both are states of events that you absolutely want to avoid.	False
The law and the Constitution are firmly on our side and we think the judge will agree.'	Department of Homeland Security.	Curiel came to national attention in 2016 when he was presiding over one of the cases against Trump University.	On Friday he heard two and a half hours of arguments and saidthat he was leaning toward deciding he has jurisdiction in a lawsuit that alleges the Trump administration overreached in waiving laws that require environmental and other reviews.	A lawsuit has been filed by the Center for Biological Diversityenvironmental groups and the State of California against theU.S.	False
But were not being given the option of deciding how to do it ourselves.	Theres an issue with that.	Andrew Cuomos support.	It is like 87 percent opposed.	Certainly.	False
Its the biggest threat of all.	Most of the threats from climate change are 50 to 75 years out Wheeler asserted adding that the world should be focused on the people who are dying today the thousand children that die every day from lack of drinking water.	Early in his tenure former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt prioritized fixing Superfund the struggling and financially strapped program responsible for cleaning up the nations most contaminated sites.	Pruitt said that it wasnt a lack of money that was plaguing the program but rather poor leadership and poor focus on the part of the Obama administration.	Lets put aside the fact that climate change is not some distant challenge but one already wreaking havoc on communities around the globe and that Wheeler has proposed gutting existing regulations that protect drinking water.	True
Soros is the director and founder of Open Society and has financed climate crusades in the past.	Several wealthy philanthropic groups such as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund RBF Rockefeller Family Fund RFF and the Open Society Foundations bankrolled large portions of the LA Times report.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Yet in public it vociferously fought regulations and policies that would have limited fossil fuel emissions while publicly questioning the science behind climate change.	The LA Times for its part has failed in the past to disclose itsties with RFF.	False
Most of us would be excited with any life said Mary Voytek an astrobiology senior scientist for NASA.	While questions remain Thursdays news represents an important advance in assessing the habitability of Enceladus Woods Hole Oceanographic Institutions Jeffrey Seewald wrote in a companion article.	Voytek said her money is still on Europa for potential life versus Enceladus since Europa is much older and any potential life there has had more time to emerge.	A press conference viewer asking questions of the scientists via Twitter asked if NASA was talking about bacteria or algae or giant squids.	The findings were reported Thursday in the journal Science by a team from Southwest Research Institute in San Antonio.	False
In the December 2015 Quinnipiac poll 83 of Democrats thought the US should be doing more compared to 62 of independents and 26 of Republicans.	That's up from 2010 when Gallup first asked it and only a third of Americans thought global warming would impact them.	Eight in 10 Democrats 54 of independents and 22 of Republicans thought in August that climate change has an impact the fires.	Fewer Republicans one third said more should be done about climate change and another third of Republicans thought that the US is doing enough to address climate change.	The Trump administration chose to speed up release of the new report which is required by law putting it out on Black Friday instead of in December.	False
We should be open to the fact that wealth transfer schemes suggested in the radical policies like the Green New Deal may not be the best path said Shimkus who less than a decade ago deployed Bible verses to dismiss the realities of climate science.	That included 64 percent of Republicans and 57 percent of self described conservative Republicans.	Glamour Rep. John Shimkus R Ill. long a climate change denier who in the past has relied on Bible verses to make his case argued against the Green New Deal at a House hearing on Wednesday.	I guess I can understand if someone has not had a lot of life experience and theyre proposing something thats extremely unrealistic well impossible.	The proposals electrified a static debate that too often ranged from outright denialism of climate change by some to dubious market fixes offered by others.	False
Bahram Fazeli director of research and policy for Communities for a Better Environment a California focused environmental justice group said Harris record on the environment was decent.	Previously as Californias attorney general Harris was charged with protecting the states progressive environmental laws in the courts.	At the same time it is intended to assuage environmental activists worried that she has downplayed climate change on the campaign trail.	Last week for example she came under fire from the Sunrise Movement and other climate change activists when she initially declined to participate in the televised Sept. 4 climate change town hall to attend a fundraiser.	Her biggest environmental victory according to green groups came in 2016 when a grand jury indicted Plains All American Pipeline on criminal charges related to a 2015 oil spill off the coast of Santa Barbara.	False
Carbon dioxide is actually a benefit to the world and so were the Jews.	In July 2014 Professor Happer caused controversy during an interview on CNBC television climate expert demonization of carbon dio200107 in the United States when he claimed that the demonisation of carbon dioxide is just like the demonisation of the poor Jews under Hitler.	The creation of the new panel of climate change deniers and the recruitment of supporters to provide it with a veneer of legitimacy echoes the campaign by Joseph Stalins regime to discredit the work of geneticists who disagreed with the disastrous lysenko soviet union russia548786 pseudo scientific theories of Trofim Lysenko.	Lysenko wrongly believed that acquired traits could be passed on by parents to their offspring.	He was also forced to defend himself after Greenpeace revealed an exchange of email messages Email Chain Happer O Keefe and Donors Trust.html during which Professor Happer discussed writing reports to promote climate change denial in exchange for a secret fee paid to the CO2 Coalition.	False
This quiet revolution may simply be a welcome return to common sense and realism.	With very few exceptions governments all over the world have fallen into the trap of paying renewable energy scammers on the basis that it is necessary at least politically to be seen to be doing something about climate change Sloan writes before providing readers with an avalanche of economic data to back up her assertion.	The current state of affairs has not only undermined Germanys climate policy but also jeopardizes Germanys international reputation as a climate leader Solomon asserts.	Trudeau now stands almost alone in sincere support of Paris Solomon writes.	Earlier this month the prominent Australian economist Judith Sloan wrote a scathing essay decrying renewable energy as the greatest scam being perpetrated against taxpayers and consumers greater even than Ponzi Madoffor Enron.	False
So Im not sure what he was recommending' he told the San Francisco Chronicle.	He didn't thank the armies of firefighters who are battling the blazes or the nine people who have died in the infernos.	And most engaged in the effort are using chemical flame retardants.	President Donald Trump tweeted Sunday that a series of deadly wildfires hitting California are 'being magnified made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized.'	Two White House spokespersons did not respond to a question Monday about what Trump's tweet meant.	False
Many of those laws remain in place.	Why do we want to let someone start drilling for more oil when we need to be putting money into resources for green economy and green fuel said Jim Wilson a 71 year old retired mail carrier from Placerville outside Sacramento.	Comments can be submitted online through March 9.	Jerry Brown and others to request a similar exemption.	The state agencies weighed in ahead of a public meeting Thursday in Sacramento the only opportunity for people to register their opinions in person to the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management.	False
The IPCCs report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December.	The report calls for societal changes that are unprecedented in terms of scale in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius the stretch goal of the Paris accord.	Thats less onerous than limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius but still no walk in the park.	In the U.S. Republican lawmakers overwhelmingly passed a resolution opposed to carbon taxes in July.	However its what the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes report released Sunday night sees as a policy option for reducing emissions enough to keep projected warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	True
But there werent human beings that was a different world folks Kerry said.	the former secretary of state asked.	the congressman asked.	Are you serious?	Massie asked.	False
Democrats and conservatives alike say they can help President Donald Trump cut corporate taxes and put money in the pockets of American taxpayers but it will come at a price penalizing coal miners and fossil fuel interests for contributing to global warming.	The goal of a carbon tax is to reduce the use of goods and services that produce greenhouse gas emissions and to convince companies to reduce their emissions.	That would be a hard pill for Trump to swallow given his pledge to revive the coal industry and put miners back to work.	A pair of Democratic senators and the bipartisan Climate Leadership Council aim to make a fee on carbon emissions part of tax reform.	Their plans would essentially transfer money from greenhouse gas polluters to individual and corporate taxpayers.	False
The migrant caravan from Central America is a recent startling example Gore tweeted Monday.	Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on climate change and the migrant caravan claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence climate change is also playing a part based on an interview with a farmer turned migrant whos crop failed.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Migrants are fleeing violent corrupt countries with poor economies but some environmentalists and journalists claim global warming is also to blame.	Many experts who have seriously examined claims linking climate to violent conflict and mass migrations have found little evidence to support such claims but the media still applied the narrative by linking global warming to Central American migrations.	False
People are suffering.	We are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	People are dying.	While Thunberg was giving a fiery speech at the UNGA Climate Action Summit Trump was speaking at an event about religious freedom.	The environmentalist movement is increasingly convinced that humanity is destroying the planet and has already called for banning the production and consumption of meat outlawing fossil fuels and shuttering down nuclear power plants despite the cost and burden on people that may produce.	False
Unfortunately for the American people Zinke leaves behind a deputy secretary with similar ethical concerns.	The next secretary should respect public desire for strong environmental standards and an end to corporate favoritism.	And in a statement posted to Twitter the ongoing agency chief said he cannot justify spending thousands of dollars defending myself and my family against false allegations.	Because when America prospers the world is safer.	For all his feigned swagger Ryan Zinke lacked the courage or integrity to face accountability skipping town as soon as he faced scrutiny Evers said.	False
HAZARD Ky.	The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obamas legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants.	Pruitt was among about two dozen attorney generals who sued to stop President Barack Obamas push to limit carbon emissions.	For Pruitt getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma.	The war on coal is over EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt declared in the coal mining state of Kentucky.	False
Heather McGhee president of the left leaning think tank Demos and the economist Robert Reich called it the most progressive climate equity policy weve seen.	That support cuts across demographics including 75 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 67 percent of people 65 years and older 73 percent of urban dwellers and 67 percent of rural New Yorkers and 74 percent of black people and 69 percent of whites.	The support breaks down similarly across the state with 73 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 61 percent of people 65 and older 71 percent of urbanites and 60 percent of rural people and 75 percent of black people and 64 percent of whites.	Cuomo also signed an executive order last week restoring voting rights to felons on parole and voiced support for legalizing recreational marijuana a policy Nixon made a platform issue in her campaign.	Sixty seven percent of New Yorkers support strengthening enforcement of clean air and water regulations even if it costs U.S. jobs compared to 58 percent nationwide.	False
The Paris Agreement endorsed by members of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC is a bedrock of international action against man made global warming.	The Group of Seven gathering the biggest western democracies comprises Britain Canada France Germany Italy Japan and the United States.	Lacking unanimity Italy which currently presides the Group of Seven decided against proposing the joint statement Calenda said.	Under Obama the United States the second biggest carbon polluter provided critical impetus for the Paris deal by concluding a precursor deal with China the number one emitter.	It also pledges to provide hundreds of billions of dollars in aid for poor countries badly exposed to drought flood rising seas and other climate impacts.	False
They worship at the altar of nihilistic capitalism.	The cruelty and the idiocy of Donald Trumps presidency does not chiefly lie in his tweets or even his words.	Trump has surrounded himself with people who care far more about the sanctity of fossil fuel profits than the safety of the American people.	Mike Pence wont save you.	Its not just clean drinking water the Trump White House has disregarded.	False
Mowing down a forest to keep the forest from burning is on the crazy side.	But I thought you believed so strongly in the environment.	All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer.	Be the solution not the problem.	I always got your back.	False
It also fined the firm 431000.	The dispute offers a cautionary tale in what one critic described as regulatory capture of a state agency by a company with deep ties to the Trump administration and a reputation as an environmental pariah unafraid to deploy scorched earth tactics against its opponents.	Our only concern is while were supporting they at least have to follow the rules.	Theyve offered options when we were stuck.	The company has flagrantly challenged the OEPAs authority infuriating the agency and eliciting a rare public investigation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or FERC the federal agency that regulates interstate electricity and natural gas operations.	False
There is no other option than victory because without victory there is not survival Inslee said at a press conference Monday.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Washington Democratic Gov.	Now Inslees back with an even more urgent message Adopt policies to tackle global warming or there is not survival.	We have just 59 days to do our part to save our children from an endless cycle of crop killing droughts one year and rivers spilling their banks the next Inslee tweeted in January.	False
It's now crystal clear President Trump is comfortable both ceding the moral high ground and the economic upper hand to countries like China and endangering the future of our planet.	We can and we must do both.	President Trump's decision will prove to be the right course of action and one I fully support.	Future generations will look back on President Trump's decision as one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st century because of the huge damage to our economy our environment and our geopolitical standing.	President Obama made commitments in this deal based off a costly power plan that we knew at the time was on shaky legal ground.	False
Measures like Colorados anti fracking Proposition 112 and Washington states Initiative 1631 to price carbon emissions were defeated in part due to a firehose of money being unleashed by fossil fuel interests.	Then Democrat Roy Cooper was elected and pulled an aggressive U turn going as far as to sign an executive order committing the state to cutting its greenhouse gas emissions 40 percent below 2005 levels by 2025.	Environmentalists lamenting that a green wave didnt wash over Congress can find a glimmer of hope in the results of several key governor races.	That gives states like Nevada another lever to drive climate policies.	They also play a huge role in how federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act are enforced.	False
It is unclear if these deaths are recorded in the government total.	Thousands of people had already fled their homes to seek shelter from violence in camps for displaced people.	On Sunday a spokesman for UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said he was appealing for additional resources from the international community to fund the response in the immediate medium and longer term.	It's raining again and the second flight couldn't go.	But attempts to reach those areas had not been entirely successful.	False
In a statement the current chief executive of Exxon Mobil Darren W. Woods said the company was encouraged by the climate groups proposal which aligns closely with our longstanding principles.	Some environmental groups did not accept that explanation on Tuesday.	A company spokesman said the liability component of the plan was not part of the companys decision to endorse it.	Individual supporters include the theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking Steven Chu a secretary of energy under President Barack Obama Michael R. Bloomberg the former New York mayor and the Indian industrialist Ratan Tata.	For this to pass it will have to pass on a bipartisan basis Mr. Halstead said.	False
If you dont defend these standards the Sierra Club and our allies will.	As each day goes by and we find out more about Pruitts conflicts of interests and revelations about his failed judgement however its important to remember that his failures have real world impacts on the health of the people he is supposed to be protecting.	Everyone deserves clean water free from toxic coal ash and the profits of utility executives should never be held in higher regard than the health of local communities.. After nearly a year in his position Pruitt has seemed more concerned with pushing the agenda of wealthy coal executives rather than doing his job to protect the environment and the health of the people who are suffering from the pollution created by coal plants.	Nothing better illustrates this than the sweetheart deal Pruitt received from the wife of a dirty energy lobbyist who had business before the EPA .	Have you lost your mind?	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	However not every ecologically minded group is on board with Icebreaker the name of the project.	They submitted their concerns to theU.S.	Wind farms across the globe kill thousands of birds a year that inadvertently fly into their turbines.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False
In so doing the government has deprived the plaintiffs the youngest is 11 years old the right to a safe and stable climate system.	Philip Gregory one of the lead attorneys representing the children filing suit explained that the injunction request is meant to address the urgency of limiting climate change by reducing emissions from fossil fuels immediately.	As Gregory and the other attorneys for the children wrote in their injunction request This injunction is urgently needed because despite long standing knowledge of the resulting destruction to our Nation and the profound harm to these young Plaintiffs Defendants ongoing development of the fossil fuel based energy system is actively harming Plaintiffs and jeopardizing Plaintiffs ability to obtain the full remedy in their case.	No small matter.	With the case currently tied up in appeals the plaintiffs wanted to make sure the current state of affairs with respect to climate change doesnt get worse as the wheels of justice slowly turn.	False
Set aside for the moment the appalling wastefulness of devoting seven hours seven consecutive hours of prime time programming to the subject.	Bernie Sanders suggested global population control encouraged by organizations that promote abortion abroad.	Banning nuclear energy.	5.	No compromises on the road to utopia.	False
California Gov.	Republicans and farmers have complained about management of the smelt population for years because precious water was being pumped out to sea instead of going towards other uses including agriculture.	Trump also lambasted policies forcing river water to be diverted during the 2016 campaign.	President Donald Trump blamed bad environmental laws for making wildfires spreading across California much worse in a Sunday tweet.	Trump said at a rally in Fresno that year.	False
Minus 3 is not that far from zero Dr. Romanovsky told the New York Times.	That has all kind of consequences both locally for this region for the animals and the people who live here as well as globally Max Holmes a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska told the New York Times.	Located in high latitudes it covers about 24 percent of the land surface in the northern hemisphere and can be up to 1km thick.	Scientists estimate the thawing could contribute as much as 1.7F 1C to global warming over the next several centuries regardless of what nations do to reduce emissions from burning fossil fuels and other activities.	Holmes led a team of scientists in July to take permafrost cores sediment and water samples from the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge to better understand how thawing permafrost affects the landscape and how much and what mix of greenhouse gases are released.	False
They dont want to be informed.	They go to the same little trough of Kool Aid every day.	Ive heard the climate change argument back and forth.	What makes Zinkes statements during his trip to California so astonishing is that they come two days after he stressed the importance of being informed and open minded.	And they dont want to expand their paradigm and look at the actual facts.	False
However he pointed to one alarming trend The most volcanism that is going in the world at present is in regions that have only recently lost their glacier covering after the end of the last ice age.	It is something we will have to watch closely Bingham said.	But how many lie below the ice?	We had not expected to find anything like that number.	And the activity of this range could have worrying consequences they have warned.	False
Fossil fuel billionaires have a grip on America's democracy.	California is burning.	But we're going to win.	We're running out of time to act.	pic.twitter.commw6dKSxPVj 350 dot org November 13 2018 Members of the Sunrise Movement responding to Pelosis support in their ownstatement on Twitter said they welcomed her endorsement but added that words arent enough.	False
Trumps action empowers Pruitt to ignore science and data in determining compliance with air quality standards saidSara JordanLegislative Representative for the League of Conservation Voters.	One of the most troubling aspects of Trump's order is that it's directing an agency established to reduce pollution to make job creation an expresspriority saidJohn Walke director of theNatural Resources Defense Council's clean air program.	Another would permit the EPA to discount many studies used as the basis for air quality standards for a lack of transparency because those analyses use individual health datathat cant be disclosed because they're protected under federal privacy laws.	These actions are intended to ensure that EPA carries out its core missions of protecting the environment and improving air quality in accord with statutory requirements while reducing unnecessary impediments to new manufacturing and business expansion essential for a growing economy the presidentsaid in a statement accompanying the order.	This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters.	False
For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	Its a fact.	Its the speed.	So congressman or the congressmans staff heres the hockey stick graph that you guys love to go off thats been debunked.	So congressman its like this in calculus terms.	False
You have in my opinion a Commonwealth that wants to see that.	Virginia Del.	I want to go beyond those issues said Del.	Having gender equality public safety LGBTQ equality gun safety those are the things we should be able to accomplish regardless of whos in charge Only taking care of those things is such a cheap cop out for what a party should stand for.	I will take a balanced approach to governing.	False
Namely that priority is climate change.	These records reveal Trumps active censorship of science in the name of his political agenda said Meg Townsend open government attorney at the Center for Biological Diversity.	To think that federal agency staff who report about the air water and soil that sustains the health of our nation must conform their reporting with the Trump administrations anti science rhetoric is appalling and dangerous for America and the greater global community.	In contrast to these newly contentious climate terms Moebius Clune wrote that references to economic growth emerging business opportunities in the rural US agro tourism and improved aesthetics should be tolerated if not appreciated by all.	Last week it was revealed that Clovis who is not a scientist once ran a blog where he called progressives race traders and race traitors and likened Barack Obama to a communist.	False
In his Spanish language address to the U.N. agency Francis denounced negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet and the greed for profit.	Thanks to scientific knowledge we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods such as the Paris Accord which sadly some have abandoned he said.	Ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the prerequisites for dealing with world food security Francis also said.	ROME Reuters Pope Francis implicitly criticized the United States on Monday for pulling out of the Paris agreement on climate change praising it as a means to control the devastating effects of global warming.	U.S. President Donald Trump announced the decision in June shortly after visiting the pope a strong supporter of the deal.	False
Not just our children.	The kids are affected the most.	Im concerned because it affects their health.	They have problems breathing.	But its not.	False
Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act then you would be evil.	You are failing us.	Right here right now is where we draw the line.	People are suffering.	And all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth.	False
The intrigue comes amid growing bad blood between the two sides.	The probe took many twists and turns and seemed to come to a halt shortly after his resignation.RELATEDSEC Investigators Decide Not To Punish Exxon For Alleged Climate Heresy Exxon engaged in a longstanding fraudulent scheme to deceive investors analysts and underwriters concerning the companys management of the risks posed to its business by climate change regulationthe lawsuit notes.	The lawsuitfollows over three years of investigationfirst orchestrated by former Attorney General Eric Schneiderman who resigned in April over abuse allegations from former romantic partners.	Sher who was with Sher Leff at the time allegedPawas group Pawa Law Group failed to distribute money from a settlement in the case.	Hagens Berman and Sher Edlings dramacomes after New York fileda lawsuit in October against Exxon for allegedly downplaying for decades the risk the companys oil products pose on the climate.	False
Opposition MPs have said the raging infernos are a crime against humanity and blamed his policies for fuelling the blazes.	What is being done here is an atrocity against us.	Camila Veiga of the Brazilian Association of NGOs said The fires are the consequence of a policy of environmental devastation of support for agribusiness of increasing pastures.	For us this is destruction.	We need the forest and our children need the forest.	False
Sen. Elizabeth Warren D Mass.	Farmers supported the Trump administrations proposal last week tofinalize the rollback of the Obama era Waters of the U.S. rule which had put new restrictions on which waterways agribusiness could pollute.	We call on Congress to put the Green in the Green New Deal Wednesdays letter reads by empowering us to revitalize the health and economic security of this countrys middle class to make family farming economically viable again and to help reverse climate change and improve Americas air and water quality by making our ecosystems healthy again.	The letter was signed by more than 500 individual farms and 50 organizations representing close to 10000 members.	Yet even as farmers reel from the effects of President Donald Trumps trade war with China Democratic candidates are far from guaranteed their votes.	False
Campbell said the evidence shows a fundamental shift in the Earths plants and that global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race.	He says despite the researchers findings which clearly show global warming helps plantsand thus also helping humans and animalsglobal warming has many negative effects too such as causing climate change which will increase flooding of coastal cities extreme weather and ocean acidification.	The study also offered no solutions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions without causing severe economic and social problems for billions of people.	Photosynthesis is the process of converting carbon dioxide into carbohydrates which power plants using sunlight.	In other words more carbon dioxide which is being produced by humans at record levels has improved plant growth which in turn improves food production for humans and animals.	False
Todays climate priests tell people they must cut out their CO2 emissions and pay penances to other nations like China to save our climate.	The people believe them.	Yet he submitted the 93 page report suggesting the research behind human caused climate change is more religion than science.	The people believed them he wrote in a December 2015 blog post.	Aztec priests told people they must cut out their beating hearts to bring better climate for their crops.	True
Why is the difference so important?	So the basis of all previous disagreements stems from who gets access to what.	Sunday's agreement goes some way to settling this dispute.	It is an important step in the easing of regional tensions but the deal over the world's largest inland body of water matters for several reasons.	This is important because...	False
His decision follows a ruling the judge made in June dismissing both cases on the grounds that Congress not the court system is responsible for addressing the emission of greenhouse gasses.	Whatever sales or events occurred in California werecausally insignificantin the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming.	Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants alleged California activities to plaintiffs harm.	It is manifest thatglobal warming would have continued in the absence of all California related activities of defendants Alsup wrote in his July 27 decision.	Trial lawyers with Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled climate lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings called a contingency fee.RELATED Trial Lawyers Handling Cities Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions Hagens Bermanstood to earn billions of dollarsin contingency fees depending on the total winnings from a favorable judgement against oil companies.	False
Still the policy seems far off at best.	4 priority and voters of color in that age range ranked it No.	3.	In a Gallup poll last month just 1 percent of Americans including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats chose environmentpollution as the countrys most important problem from a list of dozens of issues.	Voters aged 18 29 ranked green jobs as their No.	False
They are meant primarily not to inform but to exhort and to put pressure on policy makers to coerce human behavior change in accordance with climate change theory.	Of course the purpose of studies such as these which remarkably continue to receive funding is ultimately practical rather than speculative.	Event attributionthe ability to link a given phenomenon to manmade global warmingis exceedingly speculative at best and completely unreliable at worst even according to true believers.	At a meeting of climate scientists at Oxford in 2012 one participant argued that given the insufficient observational data and the coarse and mathematically imperfect climate models used to generate attribution claims they are unjustifiably speculative basically unverifiable and better not made at all.	Nature Magazine felt compelled to conclude with unusual modesty that better models are needed before exceptional events can be reliably linked to global warming.	False
The report is not without its controversies.	We think that this is the most extreme version and its not based on facts she said.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	NCAs dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes froma 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors.	False
Site owners are ultimately liable for cleanup costs but a taxpayer funded trust fund is in place when sites must be addressed quickly are abandoned or when owners dont have the resources.	Theres simply not enough money to know what to prioritize.	At some point such a deep cut makes any agency effectively non responsive Thomas said.	Ben Thomas a former tank inspector and state regulator in Alaska who now consults with private operators on meeting the inspection rules said cutting the program would hurt businesses that have come to appreciate the heavy stick of enforcement for bad players and the general community outreach.	The recommended cut in the LUST program is part of the presidents proposal to reduce the Environmental Protection Agency budget by 31 next year.	False
Liz Perera climate policy director for the Sierra Club said repealing the Clean Power Plan is about one thing and one thing only helping corporate polluters profit.	They are denying it just as they are denying the science.	Industry groups cheered the planned repeal saying it would reverse regulatory overreach by Obama and McCarthy.	The Associated Press obtained a copy of the 43 page document which underscored President Trump's bid to revive the struggling coal industry.	The Clean Power Plan represented an unlawful attempt to transform the nation's power grid ... and raise costs on American consumers said Hal Quinn president and CEO of the National Mining Association.	False
He has been outspoken in favor of gun control and after the shooting in Parkland Fla. last year he confronted President Trump on live television denouncing Mr. Trumps suggestion to arm schoolteachers.	His advocacy on the issue goes back many years he lost his seat in Congress after voting for the 1994 assault weapons ban.	While Mr. Inslee has made clear that he intends to focus overwhelmingly on climate change he is on the record supporting liberal policies in many other areas.	While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels Washington had the highest G.D.P.	His environmental policy record in his home state is long.	False
This new category of refugee needs to find a place in international agreements.	Asrecently as last year anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu pop.	In December 2009 the islands stalled talks atUnited Nations Climate Change ConferenceinCopenhagen fearing some other developing countries were not committing fully to binding deals on a reduction in carbon emission their chief negotiator stated Tuvalu is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to climate change and our future rests on the outcome of this meeting.57When the conference failed to reach a binding meaningful agreement Tuvalus representative Ian Fry said It looks like we are being offered30 pieces of silverto betray our people and our future Our future is not for sale.	It records possibly Tuvalus greatest moment of glory on the international stage when it seized the opportunity at the 2009 Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen to grandstand about its terrible plight.	The UN has since removed the claim from most of its websites.	False
Recentlyhe said that the global warming fight was in the same vein as great moral causes of humanity in the past like the Civil Rights cause of the 60s and abolition.	Gore asked.	Well arguments about science arent necessarily going to be any comfort to you and Im sorry for what youre going through Gore said.	But Im just not seeing it he said.	Gore is currently making the rounds to publicize the sequel to his global climate documentary An Inconvenient Truth.	False
Eventually it dawned on me that I should maybe bring my actions into alignment with my beliefs.	Some people like Tarek Maassarani take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes.	The content is provided for information purposes only.	At the same time if meat is all that is left when he rummages through garbage or approaches buffets he makes it a point to go last he will consume it.	Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research no part may be reproduced without the written permission.	False
This is honesty sp about how Democrats would micromanage private life.	I would love to understand this logic.	Somehow government run healthcare family sustainable wages paid leave and affordable housing are also required for a clean economy the writer wrote.	Right?	Because you know like money is just paper and how hard can it be to make some more of the stuff right?	False
The motion asks the District of Columbia U.S. Court of Appeals to toss out a request fromthe Trump administration for a delay in the court proceedings on an Obama era policy known as the Clean Power Plan.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Master will be working on a wide range of civil and criminal investigations and enforcement matters including public corruption complex civil litigation Eric Soufer a spokesman for Schneiderman told WSJ.	Schneidermanhas made fighting what he calls man made global warming a crucial part of his duties as New Yorkstop law office.	Schneiderman hired Howard Master a prosecutor who served under an Obama appointed U.S. attorney to focus on corruption cases involving the Trump administration.Masters primary responsibility according to Schneidermans office will be investigating and possibly prosecuting the Trump administration for possible civil rights abuses.	False
It added it was taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment.	No impact to the community has been reported the company said.	The unit was stabilized.	At this time while we do not believe there is any imminent danger the potential for a chemical reaction leading to a fire andor explosion within the site confines is real Arkema said in a statement.	This effectively means the affected companies can report whatever they wish without any oversight from the state regulators.	False
But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Like this story?	wondered one user.	Not sure after tonight who has less time to live Biden or the planet said one.	False
She said in a statement that unlike Pruitt Wheeler understands the mission of the EPA and acts in accordance with ethical standards.	Wheelers long experience in public service demonstrates his integrity in serving EPAs mission she said.	However the policies he has supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	Environmental groups meanwhile slammed Wheeler saying that while his behavior is less cartoonish than Pruitt he supports the same policies.	During his time as acting administrator Andrew Wheeler has been seen as a thoughtful leader who understands the need for sensible environmental policies said Michelle Bloodworth the groups president and CEO.	False
There is an inherent tradeoff between affordable energy and environmental harm and it makes no sense to ask judges and juries rather than elected legislators to strike the right balance.	So whats the problem?	First unlike smoking energy is a basic good.	We are expected to believe that energy companies covered up the damage done by fossil fuels and yet publicly available industry funded research is cited as evidence that the companies were aware of the harms they were causing.	The comparison reveals two fundamental issues with the suits.	True
We will no longer accept this injustice.	RELATEDThousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests We have the right to live our dreams and hopes the letter continues.	We demand justice for all past current and future victims of the climate crisis and so we are rising up read an open letter that the activists published on the Guardian claiming they would be protesting on every continent on Friday.	Now we will make our voices heard.	Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world.	True
Speakers included 350.org founder Bill McKibben The Green Collar Economy author Van Jones activist and Big Little Lies star Shailene Woodley climate scientist Brenda Ekwurzel activist and musician Xiuhtezcatl Martinezand MayorDale Rossof deep red Georgetown Texas whose pragmatic embrace of newly cheap renewable energy has made him a poster boy for how Republicans could quit climate change denialism.	That is the scale of the ambition that this movement is going to require.	This is going to be the Great Society the moon shot the civil rights movement of our generation she said.	Rep. elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. who has made championing a so called Green New Deal her first priority since arriving in Washington emerged as the fiercest voice on the panel Monday.	Despite stark policy differences with his chief rival in the primaries former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton supported fracking and raisedtwice as much from the oil and gas industryas her Republican opponent climate change remained a policy backwater in the election.	True
A study fromthe Institute of International and European Affairs says Trump's decision has created the 'moral and political cover for others to follow suit' in leaving the agreement.	Climate Change.'	Antonio Guterres UN Secretary General said this period of time is'a matter of life and death' for countries around the world.	'The Paris agreement sent a shiver down the spine of institutional investors globally and made them question if they were exposed to stranded assets and whether these political leaders were really serious about climate change' saidJoseph Curtin a senior fellow at the IIEA.	The statement was issued by Frank Bainimarama of Fiji Salaheddine Mezouar of Morocco Laurent Fabius of France and Manuel Pulgar Vidal of Peru.	False
CPP and the other climate regulations imposed by the Obama administration were justified based on the EPAs determination carbon dioxide poses a threat to human health and the environment a concept known as the endangerment finding.	The EPAs decision was not unexpected.	Talk about all pain and no gain!	The EPA based the decision to rescind CPP on three main principles CPP is inconsistent with the 1970 Clean Air Act CPP violated states authority to decide the best mix of power generation within their borders and eroded longstanding federalstate partnerships necessary to achieve environmental improvement and enforcement of CPP would have had a devastating effect on jobs and raised energy costs for consumersall while having virtually no effect on climate change.	Withdrawing the endangerment finding would eliminate the legal justification that has been used to impose a wide range of climate regulations.	False
It adds to evidence that the Earth at that time had surface water and other conditions to support life and wasn't as hot and as inhospitable as scientists used to think said Daniele Pinti a geochemist at the University of Quebec at Montreal.	For the moment it looks very convincing he added.	The researchers write that the ratio found in one sample provides the oldest evidence for autotrophs organisms that can produce their own food either through photosynthesis or by using inorganic compounds such as sulphur in their environment.	Were there oceans?	That's uncertain Bell said.	False
The US and the three other nations sided against welcoming the measure.	The United States was willing to note the report and express appreciation to the scientists who developed it but not to welcome it as that would denote endorsement of the report the State Department said in a statement.	Washington CNN Since the Trump administration released its blockbuster report on the day after Thanksgiving outlining the dire environmental and economic impacts of climate change it has made a series of policy and diplomatic decisions or statements that appear to run counter to all of the warnings in the report.	At the recent G20 meeting in Argentina which came just days after the release of that dire climate report US diplomats insisted on noting that the US reaffirmed its intention to withdraw from the Paris accord.	A clause in a communique signed by the member nations says the US reiterates its decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and affirms its strong commitment to economic growth and energy access and security utilizing all energy sources and technologies while protecting the environment.	False
I cannot speak to that.	Wed even settle for a coherent policy to tackle it rather than make it worse Poole told Yahoo News.	Wheres the presidents outrage about that?	We asked why Trump was saying that the states water is being redirecting into the ocean and where that idea originated.	Jerry Brown in a series of tweets.	False
That is just completely and totally unacceptable.	There is no excuse for failure.	This is the biggest test facing human civilization and we have to respond and win this battle.	The partisan nature of the debate was not lost on the audience as one attendee interrupted the proceedings to ask Where are the Republicans?	This is not a red or a blue issue he said.	False
Gov.	She says typically the agency would communicate with a state privately and work out differences to encourage a cooperative rather than adversarial relationship.	Gavin Newsom has been critical of President Trump's environmental record and challenged the administration in court.	I just think it's so ironic that the EPA is chastising California which has been so progressive in working towards cleaner air more than any other place in the country says Janet McCabe who was an EPA official during the Obama administration and now directs Indiana University's Environmental Resilience Institute.	This letter is a threat of pure retaliation Newsom says.	False
We want to eliminate confusion Freire said by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how were protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law.	As EPA renews its commitment to human health and clean air land and water our website needs to reflect the views of the leadership of the agency said JP Freire an associate administrator for public affairs.	At the marquee climate protest the Peoples Climate March in Washington tens of thousands made their way down Pennsylvania Avenue in sweltering heat on their way to encircle the White House.	Honored to join Indigenous leaders and native peoples as they fight for climate justice DiCaprio tweeted.	For instance the White House has proposed cutting funding and regulations regarding lead poisoning prevention and is considering rewriting regulations concerning smog.	False
Environmental Protection Agency chief Andrew Wheeler a former coal industry lobbyist signed a replacement rule that gives states leeway in deciding whether to require efficiency upgrades at existing coal plants.	The Trump administration on Wednesday completed one of its biggest rollbacks of environmental rules replacing a landmark Obama era effort that sought to wean the nation's electrical grid off coal fired power plants and their climate damaging pollution.	In April for the first time ever the US produced more energy from renewable sources than from coal in a single month.	The trend comes despite President Donald Trump pledging to 'bring back' the coal industry which has been hit hard by competition from cheaper natural gas and renewable energy.	In 2016 it was dethroned as the America's fuel of choice by natural gas a feat aided in part by a thriving hydro fracking industry that continues to pump abundant fossil fuels out of the Bakken Oil Shale in North Dakota.	False
It's an adventure.	Actually this is a good experience.	It's strange.	We need a policy that looks at the climate through completely different eyes Environment Minister Sergio Costa said Thursday.	We need to be resilient and adapt.	False
The Sludge an investigative website reported last December that ORourkes Senate campaign failed to comply with a pledge not to knowingly accept contributions of more than 200 from the oil and gas industry.	The League of Conservation Voters National Environmental Scorecard gives Cruz a lifetime rating of 4 based on his voting record in Congress ORourkes score is 95.	In 2015 ORourke twice voted to repeal the nationwide ban on exporting crude oil internationally arguing that lifting the prohibition would boost the economy and national security.	Literally the future of the world depends on us.	Hes going to have to take a pretty strong stand.	False
The new report offers some broad suggestions for how countries might achieve that.	This is the latest in a series of reports from the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.	Together those activities generate about a third of human greenhouse gas emissions including more than 40 of methane.	The U.N. panel is the latest group of experts to grapple with a global conundrum how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture deforestation and other land use without creating food shortages or displacing people whose livelihoods rely on practices that are unsustainable globally.	Given how much land it takes to grow food to feed livestock meat production is a leading cause of deforestation.	False
The Cuyahoga River Love Canal when there was no environmental protection.	The effect is to take away an agency's powers to deal with real world problems.	It's a move that sounds like an attitude of deference and separation of power Buzbee said.	The Supreme Court now for decades has said that environmental and aesthetic interests count for standing Buzbee said.	Writing for a divided panel he found that this good neighbor rule overstepped the EPA's authority.	False
As part of the wide ranging conversation about climate change he explainedhow he squares hissupport for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities.	And while historically nuclear power companies have built their plantsand dumped the wastein poor communities of color Booker believes it doesnt have to be that way He points to agreements struck between local and national governments in Canada and Europe as a model for a community process to deal with the waste.	Among the 2020 presidential candidates Cory Booker stands out for his record of advocating for the people who bear the brunt of pollution and toxic waste.	Bookers support for nuclear power and a carbon fee has tempered any praise from the Climate Justice Alliance a network that fears these policies would hurt more than help affected communities.	Yeah its cheap because the price does not include the full cost to humanity.	False
The next few weeks proved Mother Nature to be a cruel instructor.	To get rid of the Clean Power Plan without any idea of what to do that could be better is malfeasance on the part of the EPA administrator.	These people have either no sense or a very sophisticated sense of irony to be doing this at this timehe added referring to the Trump administration.	But the proposal to scrap the policy without any kind of replacement to curb greenhouse gases underscores the extent to which the Trump administrations refusal to acknowledge basic climate science is leaving the country vulnerable to global warming effects that are no longer theoretical.	Wildfires are raging through Californias wine country.	False
And sometimes I wonder whether any amount of evidence could convince you to act.	But they disregard some of its most important teachings when formulating policy.	Words do not suffice in a tragedy like this.	After all we have a surplus of evidence.	Republican politicians often evoke the Bible when it suits their purposes.	False
Solomon proposed that while feigning interest in global warming is politically expedient most people are unconvinced that it poses a real problemunlike the real pollution that is killing millions.	In an essay in Fridays Financial Post Solomon said that most signatories are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios.	In the Popes written message to the meeting conveyed by the Vaticans Secretary of State Cardinal Pietro Parolin the pontiff expressed his concern for water conservation around the world as well as his fervent desire that the threat posed by climate change to our brothers and sisters in the most vulnerable countries will find prompt and effective responses.	Curiously neither the European Commissioner nor the Pope made any mention to the extraordinary number of deaths caused by water and air pollution preferring instead to focus on the nebulous and ideologically charged notion of anthropogenic climate change.	Trudeau now stands almost alone in sincere support of Paris Solomon wrote.	False
It's political and it's practical.	They need to be more thoughtful.	This really is about interaction economic development.	Jerry Brown and Lt. Gov.	And they need to be inclusive.	False
I was fighting back against corporate greed and this constant disregard for public health.	As a Michigan state legislator Tlaib fought to reduceair and water pollution in Detroit and put environmental justice at the center of her campaign.	Be hopeful.	For me those young people I saw at that church that was me 15 years ago Tlaib said in a phone interview.	The night before Tlaib and Representative elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez N.Y.who made headlines today by joining the protesters at Pelosis officehad stopped by St. Stephens church to meet with the activists on the eve of the demonstration.	False
Like this story?	Last year a hose malfunction sprayed a worker with a toxic solution sending him fleeing to an emergency decontamination shower.	Its a pretty big concern if you have an unknown quantity of material containing uranium leaching into the groundwaterlocal anti nuclear activist Tom Clements told The State.	In both cases the company resolved to hire new management and overhaul its safety procedures.	Despite boasting that no company is more focused on nuclear fuel reliability Westinghouses South Carolina factory has seen its share of safety foul ups in the past.	False
pic.twitter.comJhjVBr1hU3 Sam Sweeney September 23 2019 Mondays protests come on the heels of a worldwide climate strike on Friday a series of protests in multiple countries that some called the largest climate rally ever.	Among their demands were the passage of the Green New Deal additional measures to protect indigenous peoples land and a broad push toward climate justice.	The organizers said their goal was to shut down the center of decision making in the U.S. to demand the government immediately ends fossil fuel production and enforces a swift and just transition to renewable energy.	pic.twitter.comNWIO1aRvM3 Alejandro Alvarez September 23 2019 Climate activists are shutting down major intersections throughout DC.	Im in downtown DC where climate activists with Extinction Rebellion have blocked the intersection of K and 16th streets with a big sailboat that says rebel for life.	False
Its not based on facts.	One of the problems that a lot of people like myself we have very high levels of intelligence but were not necessarily such believers said Trump speaking to the Posts Josh Dawsey and Philip Rucker.	You look at our air and our water and its right now at a record clean.	Trump toured the town of Paradise which was incinerated and said that his opinion of climate change hadnt shifted after the visit.	Its based on modeling.	False
None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president None What my journey into homelessness taught me	They can sense that we are making an impact.	So they are using several methods to mock and hate.	Something must have changed in the debate that so many young people are speaking up and so many young people are being targeted Thunberg told Yahoo News in response to the mockery her movement has received from leaders like Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin.	Now what does he want?	False
This is the core issue we all must face as aggressively as humanly possible.	The fact is it is not.	... We have to do it ourselves.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	There's no national policy to do it right now.	True
I will say this I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars.	I think there's probably a difference.	But I don't know that it's man made.	You know we're talking about over a ... millions of years.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False
After Clinton clinched the nomination the issue disappeared without a single question asked during three debates between Clinton and her Republican opponent Donald Trump.	In a first Washington Gov.	Once dubbedthe celebrities choice in offset providers NativeEnergy provides third party verification of how its offsets are used and boasts a high score as a benefit corporation a sort of LEED certification of for profit companies that pay employees decent wages and provide measurable value to society.	Bernie Sanders is a champion in the fight for climate justice and like him we know we need to address our emissions through action not just rhetoric Faiz Shakir Sanders campaign manager said in a statement.	In 2007 former Iowa Gov.	False
Meanwhile he doesnt want to sacrifice the economic well being of our country for something that nobody really knows.	Trump may believe in climate change now but he remains convinced that scientists who see a human role in the process have a very big political agenda.	Rep. Gerry Connolly D VA said Democrats should focus on the practical and the opportunistic in the short term while working toward big picture aspirational goals in the long term.	Some might argue the concept of a long term when it comes to the environment was rendered irrelevant by the latest UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report.	While he has backed away from a 2012 claim that the concept was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing noncompetitive he is now convinced that somethings changing and itll change back again according to aninterviewhe gave with 60 Minutes on Sunday.	False
WASHINGTON AP An agency ethics official at the Environmental Protection Agency says Administrator Scott Pruitts lease of a Capitol Hill condo tied to a prominent fossil fuels lobbyist didnt violate federal ethics rules.	Walter Shaub who ran the U.S. Office of Government Ethics until last year rated EPAs legal justification of Pruitts living arrangements as Total Baloney.	Also left unanswered was how Pruitt came to rent a property tied to a lobbyist with business interests involving his agency.	Minolis memo says the 50 a night rate would total 1500 for 30 nights a month which he deemed to be a fair price.	Ill only pay for nights I use it but need it held vacant all other nights wrote Shaub who has become a frequent critic of what he sees as ethical lapses in the Trump administration.	False
What is doing this to us?	Why are we sick?	We are hungry Were tired and weak Our babies are sick the plants and animals complain.	asks Frannie Frog.	asks Lucy Lake.	True
So anyone who cares about extinctions and biodiversity needs to care about the future of coral reefs.	This team of researchers advocates rat eradication projects on islands throughout the world.	By killing seabirds this study revealed rats disrupt a healthy ecosystem that depends on the seabird droppings which fertilise the reefs surrounding the island.	Rats decimate seabird populations in turn decimating the volume of bird droppings a natural coral fertiliser.	The islands with no rats are full of birds they're noisy the sky is full and they smell because the guano the birds are depositing back on the island is very pungent.	False
No bloom no harvest.	So what will replace corn on Iowa's fertile land?	Nothing says Iowa quite like fields of corn.	They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes most of them bad for growing corn.	So it's mainly grown on relatively cool mountainsides in the tropics.	False
They were also used to rejecting it.	I believe man plays a part in it but not to the extent that others have been talking about that's what me and Donald Trump were talking about Eskridge said.	That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels.	But they're not going to change many minds here.	Often they say people object to the idea that humans could possibly change the climate even if they wanted to.	False
A quasi fascist policy of fear mongering about immigration and corresponding militarization of the border is clearly the major thrust of Trumps response to the mounting impacts of climate chaos said Ashley Dawson author ofExtreme Cities The Peril and Promise of Urban Life in the Age of Climate Change.	By deporting hundreds of thousands of Central Americans from the United States the administration like the Obama administration before it is bolstering gang recruitment in countries like El Salvador according to a December report from the International Crisis Group.	That worsens the violence that many cite as a main reason for fleeing northward.	Having missed the chance to seek actual reforms we now get a militaristic and hasty response to a predictable stress.	But he didnt take advantage of that opportunity.	False
This was part ofa wider war on the Green Blob which has also involved withdrawing from the UNs Paris climate accord.	This fudge isnt perfect and it still doesnt solve the problem of the EPAs Obama era Endangerment Finding on carbon dioxide which ludicrously treats a harmless life enhancing trace gas as an existential threat.	Hence Trumps election trail promise and executive orderin March this yearrequesting EPA chief Scott Pruitt to rescind the CPP.	Note though that the CPP is not being scrapped altogether but rather being delayed indefinitely through judicial fudge.	Some conservative groups have urged the EPA to scrap the CPP without replacing it effectively ending U.S. regulation of carbon emissions.	False
University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. recentlypublished a paperon the problems with the UNs use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord.	California Democratic Gov.	Brown is right in one sense.	Yet BECCS plays a very real role in todays climate policy arena Pielke wrote by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and 90s.	What Brownorderedis not just reducing emissions but instead implied sucking more greenhouse gas out of the air than human activities in his state put up and not just for electricity.	False
Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a non profit promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	Ding Dong the Witch is Dead.	They recognized us as the pre eminent organization opposing the radical climate alarmism agenda and instead promoting sound science and policy Huelskamp wrote.	Still waiting for Chris Mooney and Juliet Eilperin at the WaPo and Seth Borenstein at AP to flame out Bast writes.	The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency especially when it comes to climate changing carbon emissions.	False
Climate Justice.	When do we want it?	We are not here to guilt individuals that forgot to recycle a cup last week another young woman said.	Now.	We cannot live in a world that is burning one young woman said that is melting.	False
Our society needs to turn dramatically and immediately towards the shared goals of environmental justice broad based prosperity and health.	Its really not politically expedient to come all the way out for it he said of Steyers reticence.	Hes calculating.	Other analysts shared similar sentiments.	Steyers political action group NextGen America has not responded to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for comment.	False
The American political conversation about climate is indeed scary and depressing.	As the CEO of one of Americas historically coal dependent utilities Tom Fanning of the Southern Company says You cant keep waves off the beach.King Canute knew this.	Lets begin with bringing back coal.	The Nevada legislature went for 40 percent but has not yet been able to overturn a similar veto.	The world rightfully worries when they hear Donald Trump proclaim he is going to bring back coal and watch the administration and the Republican Congress try to roll back such common sense requirements limits on the wasteful flaring and leaking of methane from oil and gas fields.	False
It was a different story this time around.	Montana Gov.	Former Colorado Gov.	The relatively brief segment devoted to climate change Tuesday is unlikely to satisfy environmental activists.	But I think they need more time to state the case.	False
Though not surprising this is extremely troubling.	Jake Schmidt the international program director at the Natural Resources Defense Council released the following statement Replacing the man from Big Oil with a first class climate denier simply goes from bad to worse.	With a history of questioning the science of climate change a close relationship with the polluter Koch brothers and lifetime LCV score of 4 Mike Pompeo has no business becoming the next secretary of state.	Naomi Ages the climate director of Greenpeace USA was similarly perturbed.	He received more financial backing from Koch Industries an energy and natural resources conglomerate than any other candidate in the 2010 elections 80000.	False
I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get to that result.	Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward.	A ban for California could also still be decades away from implementation and just how far out remains to be seen Nichols said.	For example California could use vehicle registration rules or control the vehicles that can access state highways she said.	The Association of Global Automakers said consumers must be able to afford the cleaner cars that California says are needed to meet its climate goals.	False
But that is where reality tempers the possibilities.	But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	Between climate change and reckless exploitation and pollution of rivers streams and lakes Tamil Nadu is staring at a bleak water future.	In June 2017 villagers in Tamil Nadu's parched Ramanathapuram district were protesting against a solar power plant they alleged that more than 200000 litres of scarce water was being extracted illegally from bore wells to clean the 250000 solar modules daily.	A healthy and environmentally sustainable future requires more than just switching from dirty coal to wind or solar power.	False
Senator Tom Carper the top Democrat on the Senate environment panel said Once again President Trump is abandoning our global allies for the sake of misplaced political gain.	Carl Pope vice chair of the group Americas Pledge said its members who are vowing to keep fighting the climate emergency produce more than half the countrys heat trapping emissions and represent about 70 of the US gross domestic product.	They called the Paris agreement a start not a finish line but the best ignition switch the world could agree on to spark international cooperation on this critical issue.	Carper said Trump is abandoning tremendous economic opportunity and public health benefits.	Jean Su energy director with the Center for Biological Diversitys Climate Law Institute said America is the number one historical contributor to the climate emergency wreaking havoc in burning California the flooded Southeast and the rest of the world.	False
Armin Laschet the governor of Germanys most populous state North Rhine Westphalia and a member of Chancellor Angela Merkels center right Union bloc called the outcome a wake up call for politics.	The French sent us a very clear message they want environment to be at the heart of our lives at the heart of the political game and that message has been spread across Europe he said.	Whoever wants legitimacy from us and the legitimacy of the many who went onto the streets will need to deliver now said Sven Giegold a leading candidate for the German Green party that scooped up more than 20 of the vote nationwide an increase of almost 10 compared with 2014.	Across Europe this was a vote to protect the climate he said.	She attributed the result to young peoples fears about global warming.	False
Let us make an effort to change and to adopt more simple and respectful lifestyles!	In this way the environment itself is endangered something good in Gods eyes has become something to be exploited in human hands.	Egoism and self interest have turned creation a place of encounter and sharing into an arena of competition and conflict he said.	Too many of us act like tyrants with regard to creation he declared.	The expression climate crisis for instance got a 60 percent greater emotional response from listeners than climate change the study found.	True
It is affecting all of us no matter where we live.	But there are other less obvious risks.	Effects on people and the economy are considerably less dire under these scenarios than in the most severe one.	Global Change Research Program.	It's fine he told reporters at the White House although he said he doesn't believe the report's assessment that climate change will cause devastating economic impacts for the U.S.	False
Well thats up to them right?	The United States has a seat at the table.	We will reach out and reciprocate with nations that seek to achieve that.	The head of the Environmental Protection Agency has said America has nothing to apologise for on climate change and retains a seat at the negotiating table claiming After all were the United States.	This is not a message to anyone in the world that America should be apologetic of its CO2 position.	False
The answer doesnt really matter.	To avert climate chaos we need to challenge the free market fundamentalism that has conquered the world since the 1980s.	In 2015 Greenpeace activists duped Happer into agreeing to write a report on the benefits of carbon dioxide for a fictional oil company.	As the New York Times reported in its article on the White Houses new climate plans both Happer and John Bolton who tapped him for the administration have received generous support from the Mercers the rightwing family credited with both spreading climate denial and helping fuel the opioid epidemic.	As Naomi Klein argues even the rights fervent conspiracy theorists tend to understand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are for business as usual which has distributed its profits among elites of both parties.	False
The report is seen as the main scientific guide for government policymakers on how to implement the 2015 Paris Agreement.	The Paris pact aims to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2C above pre industrial levels while seeking to tighten the goal to 1.5C.	The U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC met last week in Incheon South Korea to finalize the report prepared at the request of governments in 2015 when a global pact to tackle climate change was agreed.	But the report said the efficacy of measures such as planting forests bioenergy use or capturing and storing CO2 were unproven at a large scale and carried some risks.	The report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it said Amjad Abdulla the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	False
In many ways it is far worse than many had expected.	The question of unfairness cropped up again and again how the world's worst polluters China and India had no meaningful obligations placed on them by the deal.	Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer called the decision one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st Century because of the huge damage to our economy our environment and our geopolitical standing.	Leaders of the Nordic nations Sweden Finland Denmark Norway and Iceland also condemned the move.	Leaving Paris is not good for America or the world he tweeted.	False
This is religion for the political left and our supporters are constantly being asked to change their behavior a top White House official told Axios who added that snarky comments from European leaders also encouraged Trump to withdraw.	For years liberals like Al Gore and Leonardo DiCaprio have lectured the American public on global warming yet these hypocrites have bigger carbon footprints than millions of poorer peoplecombined traveling around the world in private jets accompanied by a fleet of SUVs.	Now a new report sheds some more light into why President Trump rejected the globalist scam and its incrediblespecifically he wanted to stick it to holier than thou elites in America specifically leftists who flyaround in private jets drive SUVs and live in massive mansions yet lecture Americans about their environmental impact.	The White House official said Trump resented the corporate critics who ride in fossil fuel guzzling planes and SUVs then act holier than thou according to Axios.	President Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal is a giant middle finger to elitists all around the world who want America to suffer simply to promote their global warming alarmism.	False
Thousands break off every year.	Mother Nature has been teasing mankind with this for a long time saying 'this is here'.	Sloane's idea might be dismissed as mere fantasy.	But the 56 year old Zambian South African has a reputation for taking on the impossible after he re floated the giant Costa Concordia cruise ship that capsized in 2012 off the Tuscan island of Giglio killing 32 people one of the world's largest and most complex maritime salvage operations.	To tackle the drought Cape Town has enacted measures ranging from building seawater desalination plants to issuing strict instructions to only flush toilets when necessary.	False
In that time the inaccessible land between the barbed wire fences has turned into a land of pristine nature and life.	Thecreationof the DMZ in 1953 marked a ceasefire in a war that divided Korea and resulted in the deaths of 2.5 million people including more than 36000 American soldiers.	The data collected in the DMZ took place from 2014 to 2017.	The NIE regularly updates Koreans about the state of nature in the DMZ through videos it posts on its social media accounts.	Previous data has been collected starting in 1974.	False
That reflects the views of powerful conservative political advocacy groups such as Americans for Prosperity which is funded by the influential libertarian brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch.	Cancel the Paris climate treaty and any other agreements entered into unilaterally and without the consent of Congress Mr. Hamm wrote in a letter to Mr. Trump before his inauguration.	That view is also backed by economists at the Heritage Foundation the conservative think tank that has supplied the Trump administration with many of its policy proposals.	Daniel M. Bodansky an expert in international environmental agreements at Arizona State University said that remaining in the Paris deal but weakening the United States commitment could still have the effect of generating some ill will but without the repercussions of trade sanctions.	Last month Representative Kevin Cramer a Republican from oil gas and coal rich North Dakota wrote The U.S. should present a new pledge that does no harm to our economy.	False
This is our chance to decide what that road will look like.	In 50 years she says it's going to be very different.	We have a monumental task in front of us says co author Natalie Mahowald from Cornell University but it is not impossible.	That was the Paris agreement's most ambitious target a 2 degree C rise was established as a more practical goal.	Crops like corn are now turned into ethanol but that raises food prices.	False
The decision by Khurelsukh's cabinet to distribute air purifiers is a very bad decision Davaadalai said.	Her machine which filters out toxic fumes cost her 300.	The non profit group Smog and Kids donated a South Korean made air ventilation system to a kindergarten in one of the capital's most polluted areas and the difference in air quality inside and outside the classrooms is palpable.	UNICEF reported that cases of respiratory infections have nearly tripled and pneumonia is now the second leading cause of death for children under five.	But Maria Neira the head of the WHO's public health department said the real solution to protect the lungs and the cardiovascular system was to reduce air pollution and avoid exposure to it.	False
The resolution proposes providing all people of the United States with i high quality health care ii affordable safe and adequate housing iii economic security and iv access to clean water clean air healthy and affordable food and nature.	Workers are often paid far less than the value they create.	Ocasio Cortez fired back on Twitter and said A living wage isn't a gift it's a right.	The resolution co sponsored by several Democrats running for President in 2020 has been heavily criticized by those on the right.	It calls for the creation of millions of new high wage jobs to help wipe out poverty.	False
Other celebrities like Julia Roberts are also eco hypocrites.	Even Forbes noted DiCaprio himself is one of those big polluters which diminishes his moral authority to lecture others on reducing their own carbon emissions in March 2016.	But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?	Although DiCaprio is a self proclaimed environmentalist he continued to live an incompatible lifestyle of massive carbon emissions.	All while owning multiple mansions vacationing on yachts and flying thousands of miles in private jets.	False
Our health hangs in the balance too.	Read Maryn McKennas New York Times story for more on this.	These goals were widely viewed as a win for public health.	Its not just the future of the environment thats at stake here.	The Paris agreement was no panacea but it nudged the world in the right direction.	False
Social issues Abortion should remain legal after 20 weeks.	Castro is a Roman Catholic who supports legal abortion access and gay rights.	Gay marriage is a protected right.	Education Establish universal pre K education.	Gun control Require universal background checks ban assault weapons.	True
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	And what constitutes sustainable consumption and production is in the eyes of the beholding bureaucrat empowered either by the administrative regulatory state or by legislation adopted at the behest of deep pocketed special interests.	The ties that bound the UN and the Obama administration should not be allowed to constrain the choices of everyday Americans.	And therein lies the problem.	For the common goals and objectives shared by the U.N. body and the Obama administration are specifically crafted to hamstring American fossil fuel energy development promote an assortment of politically fashionable but otherwise uncompetitive green technologies and products and perpetuate the deplorable living conditions in the worlds poorest countries.	False
Recall the false promises about corn and cellulosic ethanol The Wall Street Journal editorial board wrote of the study.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	However Congress is debating whether or not to extend electric car subsidies.	California for example requires automakers to cut greenhouse gas emissions in cars by producing lower emissions vehicles or buying credits from companies like Tesla that make electric vehicles.	Its better read as a warning that new technologies arent a climate change panacea.	False
She points to the massive wildlife that hit Portugal last month that left 60 people dead and one that happened in Chile in January.	Anne Petermann executive director at the Global Justice Ecology Project said the tradition has been for the government to rubberstamp genetically engineered organisms but this would be the first time they are approving a genetically engineered forest tree.	Those studies have not been done and that is one of the major points in the comments.	Eucalyptus trees are the number one industrial tree plantation used in Latin America Africa and Asia traditionally in tropical areas where commerce appreciates their fast growth and versatility.	Over 250000 Americans and 500 organizations submitted comments rejecting the US Department of Agricultures USDA proposal to approve genetically engineered eucalyptus trees for planting.	False
Voxs David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points.	Washington Gov.	And theres always the risk that it could devolve into rote recitals of platitudes.	That a major television network would devote so much time to a single issue is a sign of how important climate change has become for Democrats and how successful activists have been in elevating the issue.	CNNs climate change forum has immense potential to illuminate real differences among the candidates and inform the public about the often weedy details of climate policy.	False
So whats the point of attacking environmentalists?	In California for example humanscaused95 percent of all wildfires with power lines and utility equipment becoming a growing problem.	Most wildfires are caused by humans mostly unintentionally.	The former Montana congressman blamed litigation from radical environmentalists who would rather see forests and communities burn than see a logger in the woods in a USA Todayop edpublished Wednesday.	The judge sided with environmental groups and ruled renders the Project inconsistent with the desired vegetative conditions set forth in the Payette Forest Plan from 2003.	False
This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters its nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science gut our clean air protections and put polluter profits ahead of our health Sara Jordan a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters said in a statement.	The orderinstructs the EPA to consider what countries that dont border the United States are doing to reduce pollution allowing the agency to compare U.S. regulations to those in developing nations like China and India.	In what could be the most controversial part the order requires the EPAs science advisers to consider the downside of cleaner air rulessomething for which industry groups have clamored for years.	It marks the latest assault on clean air rules putting poor people and communities of color particularly at risk.	The purpose is that if states make determinations that are somewhat less than the rigor of what might be expected EPA wont second guess it Stan Meiburg a former acting deputy EPA administrator who spent 39 years at the agency told HuffPost by phone.	False
In a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity it is necessary to recall the values of custody of creation the preferential option for the poor and the peace that is built in everyday life including with attention to the care of the common home she said.	The moral clarity of these 40 institutions is a source of deep joy said Toms Insua the director of the Movement.	In this new wave of ethical investing the total figure of divestiture for the church groups involved has not been disclosed but is reportedly four times higher than a previous church record.	I hope we will see more leaders like these 40 Catholic institutions commit because while this decision makes smart financial sense acting collectively to deliver a better future for everybody is also our moral imperative she said.	His groundbreaking 2015 encyclicalletterLaudato Sion care for the environment was the first teaching letter of its sort in the history of the Catholic Church.	False
After seeing the recent footage of workers dumping the toxic waste at the site state Representative Gerry Pollet who also serves as the executive director of Heart of America Northwest called their actions outrageous.	Its a crime.	This fee structure ignores human nature which is to take shortcuts to get the money without any accountability unless they get caught.	They knew it was wrong to dump the liquids but they did it anyway.	Im convinced by looking at this that youre witnessing a criminal violation of several statues not just one.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The new rule is really a dereliction of duty moral ethical but also legal Andres Restrepo a lawyer with the Sierra Club's Environmental Law Program told the Post.	That's the exact opposite of what Trump regularly claims.	His lies dont make it cleaner and his policies are on track to make it worse.	While Trump has been in office the air has gotten dirtier.	False
Its true of course that you dont want to do a completely naive associational study and then leap to big policy conclusions from it.	This is critically important for two main reasons.	He wants to abandon the current weight of the evidence standards that allows for a wide range of evidence to be considered with credibility weighted according to the quality of study design in favor of a very narrow class of studies that employ manipulative causation methods.	Chan School of Public Health writes with researcher Gretchen Goldman in a new Science essay on the subject this loads the dice against demonstrating harms because randomized control trials are not possible or ethical when studying environmental hazards.	But most regulations that reduce carbon emissions also reduce much more localized soot and taking into account the fact that soot has a marked tendency to kill people who live nearby the emissions sources is important to making the cost benefit analysis math work.	False
We know we arent in the business of risking anyones safety.	Sometimes Mother Nature throws you a curveball!	As well as an ironic sign In other parts of the country where similar marches and rallies took place the weather was a little kinder to the liberal climate alarmist narrative.	Video showed thousands marching in the streets of Washington where former Vice President Al Gore Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Virgin Atlantic owner Richard Branson showed up to protest as well.	This weekends protests come one week after last weeks March for Science.	False
Supporters say the ballot measure would protect public health but opponents say its a red herring meant as a de facto ban on fracking.	Steyers group has spent more than 10 million in support of Nevadas green ballot measure.	Polls show strong support for Proposition 112.	Jay Inslee and many Democrats and environmentalists who want to fight man made global warming.	A September poll put support for Proposition 112 at 60 percent but many prominent Democrats have come out against the measure.	False
The consent decrees here involve violations of federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act.	Less enforcement doesnt mean there arent a whole lot of violations that are out there said Eric Schaeffer executive director of the Environmental Integrity Project who led the civil enforcement office at the EPA under Presidents Clinton and Bush in a call with reporters.	Check out this chart The fines come from consent decrees a type of legal settlement where a party has to take a specific action but does not have to admit fault or liability.	Enforcement matters especially to the people who live and work next to plants that continue to release more pollution than the law allows.	And one new measure of Pruitts foot dragging thats just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately.	False
It's a dereliction of both her duty to this country and our duty to our planet.'	'It is what the public wants it makes economic sense and it is what the world needs in order to safeguard the lives of future generations.'	'Today China and Europe have demonstrated solidarity with future generations and responsibility for the planet' he said.	China and Europe pledged to unite to save 'Mother Earth' as others including the UK and Russia reaffirmed their commitment to the international accord.	Mr Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris agreement was met with dismay around the world yesterday.	False
Gov.	Republicans cast the deciding votes amid the endorsement of prominent California GOP politicians like former Gov.	Heoutraged the world by exiting the Paris climate agreement.	The passage of this bill is a rare bipartisan victory.	But at the state level politicians are fighting back and nowhere more so than in California.	False
at world leaders at the U.N. General Assembly earlier this year accusing them of failing the younger generation.	Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.'	The 16 year old Swedish face of climate activism made headlines after shouting 'How dare you?'	The businessman denounced the choice as a 'marketing gimmick' and said the prize should have honored 'Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms' his father was also a finalist.	Greta said 'The biggest danger is not inaction the real danger is when politicians and CEOs are making it look like real action is happening when in fact almost nothing is being done apart from clever accounting and creative PR.'	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Nye who is well known for hosting a childrens TV show in the 1990s scolded CNNs New Day Saturday panel Saturday for pitting his environmentalist pedigree against the climate skepticism of physicistWilliam Happer.	Nye for his part has been one of the most belligerent apostle for the environmental movement.	Comedian Bill Nye accused CNN of doing a disservice to its viewers for inviting a well respected physicist on Earth Day to argue about the legitimacy of man made global warming.	Its much much less factors of two or three less.	False
Is man having an effect on it?	The question should be you know just how much and what are the policy changes that we need to make to affect that?	Its release hinges on the Trump administrations approval and one scientist who worked on the report told the Times that he and others feared the president would withhold it.	The report delivers a strikingly different message than the one being pushed by Trump and his Cabinet members who continue to downplay the urgency of the threat as they work toward energy dominance.	Yeah we are.	False
'Stopping this study is a ploy to stop science in its tracks and keep the public in the dark about health risks as a favor to the mining industry pure and simple' said Democratic Representative Ral Grijalva of Arizona ranking member of the House Committee on Natural Resources in a statement.	'It's infuriating that Trump would halt this study on the health effects of mountaintop removal coal mining research that people in Appalachia have been demanding for years' Bill Price Senior Appalachia Organizing Representative for Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign said in a statement.	Birth defects were also reported in a 2011 study published in Science Daily.	The Trump administration has halted a study looking at the health risks of mountaintop removal coal mining.	The study had been launched at the request of two West Virginia agencies the state's Department of Environmental Protection and Bureau for Public Health.	False
We have no luxury to indulge selfish ignorant behaviors.	Demand to be treated like adults.	Spoiled children need discipline in order to live wholesome productive lives.	It is hard to imagine a more important priority.	Let us ask them.	False
Susan Dio chairman and president of BP America supported federal regulation of methane in an opinion piece in the Houston Chronicle earlier this year calling it the the best way to help further reduce and ultimately eliminate methane emissions industrywide.	The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions a major factor in global warming.	President Donald Trump who insists he is an environmentalist has also relaxed rules on carbon emissions from vehicles and intends to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris agreement on climate change.	We simply cannot protect our children and grandchildren from climate catastrophe if EPA lets this industry off scot free said David Doniger a climate and clean energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council.	Some large energy companies including BP favor federal regulation of methane saying the regulatory certainty is preferable to a patchwork of varying rules by states and legal challenges by environmentalists.	True
We believe in the dignity of life and part of that is having a place to live he said.	Personally I buy recycled toilet paper because we can and it's good for the Earth said Andrew Musgrave director of Catholic Social Action at the Archdiocese of Cincinnati and one of the 150 signatories to the letter sent to PG.	It's just unacceptable that a company like PG is making toilet paper a product that is used for seconds and flushed from virgin pulp said Shelley Vinyard boreal corporate campaign manager for the Natural Resources Defense Council and one of several dozen protesters at PG's annual shareholders meeting in Cincinnati Ohio on Tuesday.	When companies make these pledges to be sustainably sourced or use recycled content that's the problem that they're solving.	Musgrave said he learned about the issue of deforestation for toilet paper relatively recently through a member of the congregation and that it was a natural fit with church teachings on preserving the environment.	False
This article originally appeared at PRI's The World.	There are factors and factors and factors.	And those two things are kind of in conflict.	So when you go to Texas or you go to Iowa you're generally just negotiating with a landowner whether it's a farmer whomever says Beggar.	The formula here has worked residents in Wyoming enjoy among the highest per capita GDP in the nation.	False
Former President Barack Obama had put in place a rule in 2016 that was connected to a regulatory strategy which sought to reduce methane emissions.	The courts ruling is yet another reminder now in the context of environmental protection that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the presidents desire to order immediate change Richard Lazarus environmental law professor at Harvard Law School said in an email as reported by the Post.	Lazarus continued the DC Circuits ruling today makes clear that neither the president nor his EPA administrator Scott Pruitt can by fiat unilaterally and instantaneously repeal or otherwise stay the effectiveness of the environmental protection rules put into place during the Obama administration.	Two judges concluded the administration record thus makes clear that industry groups had ample opportunity to comment on all four issues on which EPA granted reconsideration and indeed that in several instances the agency incorporated those comments directly into the final rule.	At the time Pruitt was the Attorney General of Oklahoma and he and others sued the EPA to overturn the legislation.	False
This is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights Olson said in court papers.	Aiken said in an Oct. 15 ruling that although the case raised questions about the role of the judiciary delving into a matter of policy those concerns were not enough to warrant a dismissal of the entire case.	There was no indication how Trumps new Supreme Court appointee conservative Brett Kavanaugh voted on the issue.	Circuit Court of Appeals.	Conservative Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch indicated they would have granted the administrations request.	False
Rob Bishop the top Republican on the House Natural Resources Committee said on the House floor before the vote.	The 363 62 vote to pass theNatural Resources Management Act came two weeks after the Senate approved the bill 92 8.	But it also enjoyed larger buy in.	Related Crumbling national parks Congress looks to hike funds for repairs after years of neglect The very basis of all of the bills that are in here is to put people above government Utah Rep.	Democratsgot behind the bill because it would expand environmental protections.	False
Hovenweep is in all of our stories and to threaten the integrity of these structures jeopardizes everything weve carried forward as resilient people.	They argue these lands are abandoned but theyre not we use them in our prayers we visit them.	You wouldnt like it if I went into your home your land and started digging.	When this oil and gas leasing happens on or near sacred lands it risks de stabilizing the bedrock of the structures said Ahjani Yepa a member of Utah Din Bikyah a Navajo grass roots organization.	The Bureau of Land Management would benefit from more community outreach and long term planning to lease parcels on sensitive landscapes said Erika Pollard an associate director with the National Parks Conservation Association.	False
On one side of that debate is a theological argument thats gained prominence in some corners of evangelical Christianity over the past decade.	As a Christian I have a responsibility to try my best to be as wealthy as possible James Wanliss an associate professor of physics at Presbyterian College in South Carolina and the author ofThe Green Dragon Is Global Warming a Religion?	As a Christian thats a problem to me because well aside from the philosophy behind those systems its just again empirically been disastrous.	The position paper called for protecting Gods creation and embracing the governments help in doing so.	Hes written poems lamenting legal abortion.	False
Regardless of why you're doing it what you're doing would be the same whatever motivates you.	We could tie this to climate change or we could tie it to saving taxpayer money.	Instead they both said the focus should be on resiliency.	I don't know if there's an operating definition of what resilience means he said.	Resilience came into our nomenclature in our last administration but that doesn't mean that it's a verboten word any longer said Brian Sullivan a HUD spokesman.	True
And while theres an element of truth to that it misses the big picture.	This has become a bedrock belief of the modern GOP.	This is the consensus that the vast majority of the Republican Party from donors to politicians to intellectuals to voters has arrived at.	More nuanced pundits and politicians acknowledge that the science is real but argue that even if it is accurate the consequences might not be so bad or that action would simply be too costly.	President Donald Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement has been portrayed in some press coverage as a decision driven by either his personal idiosyncrasies or the policy agenda of White House chief strategist Steve Bannon.	False
But he doesnt care because in his mind its real.	How else to explain last months comments that environmental activists are just like those who were on the beaches in Normandy.	The mechanism Robert Francis is referring to is a democracy.	Its embarrassing.	How does a man who under normal circumstances would be working as a barista in the local coffee shop dole out knowledge of experience on World War II to a Democrat party who eagerly laps it up?	False
The global average temperature is much higher and is rising more rapidly than anything modern civilization has experienced and this warming trend can only be explained by human activities Easterling said.	The federally mandated study was supposed to come out in December but was released by the Trump administration on Friday at a time when many Americans are on a long holiday weekend distracted by family and shopping.	We've known for years that it's true and it's important to our organizing and our local policy efforts that information like this is not only considered but believed and acted upon.	What can be done The report was created to inform policy makers and makes no specific recommendations on how to remedy the problem.	Almost half that rise has been since 1993 a rate of rise greater than during any century in the past 2800 years.	False
Its intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that youre talking about.	We dont go into policy but we provide the information for people who want to go further with that.	There are about four different independent data sets we looked at to come to this conclusion Blunden told Yahoo News.	Now they hope the world will listen.	Were scientists and were providing objective information Jessica Blunden a climate scientist at NOAAs National Climatic Data Center in Asheville N.C. told Yahoo News.	False
We cannot accept a status quo where children of color are drinking toxic water in Flint or breathing toxic air in Louisianas Cancer AlleyHarris said in a statement.	People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices.	Mustafa Ali the former head of the EPA environmental justice office noted that the idea of scoring environmental justice impacts is something advocates have pushed for years.	Ali points out an equity score is potentially significant because it helps put up a wall of protections around those communitiesaddingI think its just now starting to gather steam.	This systemic environmental injustice will only get worse and become more ingrained if climate and environmental policies like the Green New Deal do not specifically focus on lifting up these communities.	False
Spewing.	Right?	You know we have a world right?	You talk about the carbon footprint fumes are spewing into the air.	Interior Department spokesman Nicholas Goodwin said in a statement that the government needed to make sure the project was safe and environmentally responsible.	False
Democratic Gov.	Courtneys admission is not rewarding Senate Republicans for bad behavior.	On Tuesday some of the Republicans in hiding were not sure what to make of Courtneys statement about the votes.	Kate Brown nonetheless last week sent state police to find the lawmakers and instituted a 500 per day fine per person for each day they werent present at a legislative session.	The Republicans are not standing against climate change theyre standing against democracy she said during a press conference Tuesday.	False
On the question of burning in the Amazon which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money what is the intention?	This is the war we are facing.	It is an international crisis.	Maybe I am not affirming it these NGOs are carrying out some criminal actions to draw attention against me against the government of Brazil.	The decisions and statements from Brazil these recent weeks show clearly that President Bolsonaro has decided to not respect his commitments on the climate nor to involve himself on the issue of biodiversity the spokesperson said.	False
Instead of focusing on the apprehensionand divisiveness surrounding the causes of natural disasters its more important than ever that we maintain our humanity and come together tohelp one another.	In a hyper political environment pro climate change and anti climate change theory rhetoric serves only to distract from the real issue at hand the necessity of serving people impacted by natural disasters and the implementation ofstandardized response to these crises.	While much of the media and government is ensconced in creating division among political parties and ideologies its more important to avoid playing into alarmist rhetoric whichonly serves to encourage people throughanxiety and panic.	With the eastern seaboard still in the thick of hurricane season as well asthe most recent devastation caused by Category 5 Hurricane Maria which was said to cripple Dominica with widespread devastation en route to Puerto Rico and possibly the States its important to maintainlevelheaded perspective and communication on natural disasters while speakingtruth amidstapprehension.	Man made warming did not cause Harvey and Irma Loris wrote.	False
Asked by international journalists about environmental protection of the Amazon at a press briefing on 6 July he said Brazil is like a virgin that every pervert from the outside lusts for.	Macron cannot even avoid a predictable fire in a church that is part of the world's heritage and he wants to give us lessons for our country?	It's no use pointing the finger at what's wrong without bringing alternatives to people he said.	Asked about Mr Bolsonaro's remarks Mr Macron said they were extraordinarily rude and sad.	Greenpeace France described the G7's response to the crisis as inadequate given the urgency and magnitude of this environmental disaster.	False
A military leader for example said that part of its mission involved creating a positive perception of the country.	And while the fires have been burning for weeks the international outcry grew this week as photographs spread on social media.	Bolsonaro approved the involvement of the military to help put out fires in a televised speech Friday in which he claimed his government would have zero tolerance for environmental crimes.	Protecting the rain forest is our duty he said.	Much of the attention has focused on Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro a long time critic of the countrys environmental regulations who had tried to minimize the effects of the fires.	True
Employees wanting medical or religious exceptions can hash those out witha company policy team.	New research indicates that avoiding meat is one of the biggest things an individual can do to reduce their personal environmental impact even more than switching to a hybrid carWeWork co founder MiguelMcKelvey said in an email to staffers.	The companyestimates its no meat policy will save15507103 animals by 2023 according to Business Insider along with16.6 billion gallons of water and445.1 million pounds of carbon dioxide theheat trapping gas that alters Earth's climate.	The global workplace startup told employees this week that the company will ban employees from expensing meals that contain red meat pork or poultryBloomberg reported.	WeWork confirmed the policy change to both news outlets.	False
The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products.	The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages as well as orders requiring the companies to pay abatement costs and to disgorge profits.	The lawsuit contended that the companies sought to refute scientific findings regarding how greenhouse gas pollution was causing climate change and failed to prevent the harm that would result from consumers using fossil fuel products.	The lawsuit by the Democratic attorney general follows similar cases by U.S. cities and local governments arguing the production of fossil fuels had led to rising tides that damaged shorelines roads and other properties requiring remediation.	The lawsuit said that companies also violated the states Environmental Rights Act by polluting and destroying natural resources in Rhode Island.	False
On a broader note Im confused.	But making sense isnt a tenant of the climate religion.	No not really.	In reality New York Citys subway system is a dumpster fire of mismanagement.	Weird how everything just so happens to reinforce her political narrative and now shes back with another hot take.	False
This report is striking for two reasons.	That view was echoed by Abigail Dillen president of environmental group Earthjustice.	And secondly it majors on the economic impact in effect challenging the White House's insistence on prioritising economic growth over environmental regulation.	Environmental groups said the report underlined their demands for action.	First it is not abstract.	False
Theyre often communities of color.	Thats the environmentalinjustice and racism that were dealing with and my plan would equip Americans with the tools tofight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what isright now a tremendous injustice he said.	I think about poor communities along the east coast he said.	You all know that oftentimes the first folks that get flooded out are the poorest communities.	He said as former Housing and Urban Development secretary in the Obama administration he found out that 70 percent of HUD funded public or subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site.	False
In a separate legal fight over coal ash the Tennessee Valley Authority the nations biggest public utility last month appealed a federal judges order to clean up decades of coal ash environmentalists say poisoned water in the Volunteer State.	Pat McCrory R signed a bill that dramatically watered down legislation forcing Duke to clean up its coal ash pits without requiring the company to excavate the waste or provide clean water to residents near the pond.	Children are particularly at risk of learning disabilities birth defects asthma and cancer with 1.54 million living near such storage sites according to EPA data cited by the Sierra Club.	In 2016 then Gov.	This is the second biggest toxic pollution threat in our country and we need to clean it up not make things easier for polluters Earthjustice attorney Lisa Evans said in a statement.	False
What have we done?	Kiddo I want you to just take a look.	Ive never walked away from that.	And the fact of the matter is that what we talk about is what are we going to do about those corporations?	How can we trust that youre going to act on climate on the climate crisis if youre still attending fundraisers that fossil fuel executives are attending?	False
No harm no foul.	Its a no standard standard.	The rollbacks an international signal that were not taking carbon capture and sequestration and reducing impacts from coal seriously said Jay Duffy an associate attorney at the Clean Air Task Force.	But its not regulations that are hurting the US coal industry its competition.	And coal consumption is at its lowest level since 1979.	False
Yet IPCC report authorsframedthis as a problem of political will not economics and technology.	And I think for younger people looking at this are more like how are we saying lets take it easy when 3000 Americans died last year how are we saying lets take it easy when the end person died from our cruel and unjust criminal justice system?	The New Deal.	Thats the line activists and many politicians have taken up in the months since the IPCCs report.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	False
Over and over again the Trump administration has put the profits of multinational polluters over the health and well being of everyday Americans said Eric Schneiderman New Yorks attorney general.	They have been reckless and not followed the basic requirements of the law.	Our fight to protect public health and our environment will continue in court.	Many of these legal problems have stemmed from the sheer pace of the rollbacks required public comment periods have been set aside in some cases any rationale for repeal or delay has been missing in others.	They are trying to score political points or attempting to grant favours to corporations who dont want to follow the rules said Aaron Colangelo the litigation director of the Natural Resources Defense Council.	False
As well as the fact that we as a country need a project and climate change is as good a one as well ever have.	A lot of the answers are coming from the communities he said.	This story was originally published byGristand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	I thought his point that the timeline is set by science not by politics was compelling Miller said.	Nevertheless some audience members were impressed by Buttigiegs vision of a green America.	True
This is a fudged statistic however.	Wheelers climate denial received some backup at Wednesdays hearing.	It was a brazen if not unexpected stance from the nominee to become the EPAs 15th administrator.	In October the United Nations released a landmark determination that the world has until 2030 to halve global emissions or face catastrophic climate change.	He repeatedly misrepresented his own agencys findings about a rule to gut an Obama era power plant regulation inflating the emissions cuts the new proposal would mandate.	False
They're preaching fear.	My personal views are irrelevant in this context.	No wonder the environmental message has became the cause of choice for the elitists of Hollywood.	The source illegal immigrants.	And that's what they're preaching.	False
But this announcement disregards well established policies for how visitors can enjoyably and safely experience the backcountry in national parks said Kristen Brengel senior vice president at the National Parks Conservation Association.	For generations weve agreed that there are some places so special that they should be protected for visitors to enjoy away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life.	Park visitors posting in June before the policy was announced on the independent National Parks Traveler web siteexpressed mixed opinions on the expanded use of the electronic bikes.	The change has drawn criticism by park advocates and some trail enthusiasts who say the administration did not do enough to seek public input on a policy that could damagethe park experience for many.	Said Tyler Ray director of policy and advocacy for theAmerican Hiking Society Permitting e bike use on trails that have been thoughtfully and specifically designated as non motorized raises questions of safety and trail sustainability that must be considered.	False
Somewhere somehow the vile stuff gets out and when it does it causes untold damage to the environment.	In doing so they reveal their own selective adherence to scientific reason.	These facts received little coverage the media instead portraying a David and Goliath fight in which virtuous protesters took on a corrupt wealthy industry.	But just as with the recent Dakota Access Pipeline spill the reality is less convenient for their political preferences.	The environmental Left rushed to publicize the incident as an I told you so moment but activists gloating reveals either their cynical dishonesty or their ignorance about how modern pipelines work.	False
WRI leadership regularly interacts with senior Chinese government and Communist party officials and provides public support for Chinese environmental programs Bishop and Westerman wrote.While WRI criticizes policies of the U.S. government WRI is silent on Chinese human rights violations such as arrests of environmental protesters and the mass detention of ethnic minorities.	WRIs desire to maintain access to Chinese officials may influence its political activities in the United States Republican Reps.	On important issues for Chinese leadership WRIs position appears to closely reflect Chinas goals and objectives the two lawmakers added.	Bishop and Westerman said NRDC and WRI activities mirror those laid out in reports on Chinas vast influence machine which it uses to shape its global image including on environmental issues.	WRI opposed President Donald Trumps decision to leave the Paris accord in 2017 in a statement that also praised China for committing to the climate agreement.	False
Former Vice President Al Gore blasted the decision of President Donald Trump to remove the U.S. from the Paris Climate Agreement on Thursday calling it reckless and indefensible.	Gore who has made two documentaries advocating climate change action said in a statement Removing the United States from the Paris Agreement is a reckless and indefensible action.	It undermines Americas standing in the world and threatens to damage humanitys ability to solve the climate crisis in time.	The Paris Climate Agreement is a pact among nearly 200 nations made to voluntarily cut greenhouse gas emissions in an effort to combat climate change.	Gore called the conversation he had with Trump at the time extremely interesting.	False
RELATED Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado However not all scientists agreed.	North Carolina Democratic Gov.	Coopers order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles use more wind and solar energy and cut energy use at state owned buildings.	A strong clean energy economy combats climate change while creating good jobs and a healthy environment said Cooper.	For example the Obama administrations pledge to cut U.S. emissions 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 was only projected toavert 0.001 degrees Celsius of projected global warminga year.	False
In the late 1990sa crusading attorneysued E.I.	du Pont de Nemours and Co. over a massive contamination in Parkersburg West Virginia that killed livestock and sickened and deformed many residents in the rural Appalachian community that surrounded the chemical companys plant.	There is enough data to take action.	Last May the EPA hosted anational leadership summiton PFAS but the agencys decision to bar reporters from attending sessions and one officials manhandling of an Associated Press reporter overshadowed the event.	Later that month the White House and EPA moved to suppress an Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry report that found PFAS pose health risks at 70 parts per trillion.	False
We face a direct existential threat.	It's a glimmer of hope in a sea of otherwise dire news.	Economic costs associated with such disasters are mounting.	I am appealing for leadership from politicians from businesses and scientists and from the public everywhere U.N. Secretary General Antnio Guterres said when he announced the summit.	Although nearly every nation on the planet including the United States promised to reduce their net greenhouse gas emissions when they signed the Paris Agreement way20170601531048986 so what exactly is in the paris climate accord climate scientists warn that the cumulative pledges are nowhere near sufficient.	False
All three are equally important to human wellbeing.	The body which is meeting this week aims to get all the worlds governments singing from the same sheet about the need to protect natural systems.	That's almost half of the world population.	The warning will come from the awkwardly named IPBES the Intergovernmental Science Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services a panel studying the benefits of nature to humans.	Soil expert Prof Jane Rickson from Cranfield University UK added The thin layer of soil covering the Earth's surface represents the difference between survival and extinction for most terrestrial life.	False
To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced.	Regardless of what causes disasters it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences Long told CNN.	Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt told CNN in an interview about Hurricane Irma on Thursday that the time to talk about climate change isn't now saying the question was insensitive.	Pushed about whether the administration should also be looking at the cause of the storm Duke responded I you know the data I don't know what it particularly indicates.	Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget said climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media.	False
The article detailed aU.N.	Some of the more dire predictions came from Paul Ehrlich a biologist who famously urged population control to mitigate the impacts of humans on the environment.	According to The Salt Lake Tribune Ehrlich warning of a disastrous famine urged placing sterilizing agents into staple foods and drinking water.	But short term predictions weren't a laughing matter in the years following An Inconvenient Truth a documentary produced by former Vice President Al Gore.	In 2008 ABC released an ominous video about what the world would look like in 2015.	False
Occasionally there needs to be an opportunity based on a unique circumstance to ensure that my family are safe it's generally as simple as that.	In my mind it's the right thing to do and we need to make it cool he said.	In September's edition of Vogue edited by Meghan the prince spoke about environmental issues and his love for nature saying We are the one species on this planet that seems to think that this place belongs to us and only us.	The duke said that what is important is what we do to balance out negative effects.	At the launch of Travalyst aimed at encouraging the tourism industry to become more sustainable the duke was asked about his travel behaviour.	False
Given its clear violation of the Clean Air Act I intend to sue the EPA over this Dirty Power rule and look forward to collaborating with other states and cities in taking action to protect all Americans from the increasingly disastrous impacts of climate change James said in a statement.	At a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing last week about the direction of the EPA former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy who finalized the Clean Power Plan under Obama said she believes the proposed Affordable Clean Energy rule as well as other proposed rules the agency has made since Trump took office undermines the science and the law in how they're trying to roll back those rules.	We are gathered here today because the American public elected a president with a better approach EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said Wednesday.	They are trying to inflate the cost and lower the benefits in order to justify rules that simply don't make sense under the law.	Unlike the CPP the ACE rule adheres to the four corners of the Clean Air Act.	False
Young people and Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma.	I wouldnt even call it compromises.	In August the Democratic National Committee under pressure from unions backtracked on a two month old resolution to ban donations from oil gas and coal companies.	We wanted to make it so it could be an executable idea.	Maintaining legislative power for existing committees with members who might have taken contributions from oil gas and coal donors could pose some risk but would be worth it said Rep.Pramila Jayapal D Wash. the other Progressive Caucus co chair.	False
A third principle a just transition for fossil fuel workers so that no one is left behind and so we show respect and gratitude for all the work they've done to power economy is the decades past.	The green dream or whatever they call it nobody knows what it is but they're for it right?	The lack of specifics could present opportunities and liabilities for presidential candidates.	Small incremental policy solutions are not enough.	In a statement to CBS News on Tuesday Congressman Ral Grijalva Democrat of Arizona confirmed that he will be supporting the resolution after initially being reluctant to back it.	False
On Wednesday conservatives leading voice of reason on climate change published a widely shared essay that offered talking points to oppose the Green New Deal without invoking hamburger bans Stalinism or genocide.	Weve now seen the whites of its eyes.	For years positions in the debate over mainstream climate policies ranged from hard line denial of climate change on one end to moderate market tweaks on the other.	We have this idea that left ideas are moving and shaking inside the political atmosphere right now.	That same week Rep. Matt Gaetz R Fla. a loyal Trump ally drafted a nonbinding resolution staking out a Green Real Deal that would acknowledge the threat climate change poses to human health and safety in communities across the United States.	False
Extreme heat makes pollution worse which can be dangerous for the very young the elderly and anyone with respiratory diseases.	And when it gets hotter our thermostats turn lower and the cycle continues.	According to the National Weather Service 21 young children have died in hot cars this year.	The temperatures reached a high of 185F 85C not quite enough for a proper bake but certainly too hot for humans or animals to survive in.	Here's what that sort of heat can do.	False
14.	13.	5.	8.	Jerry Brown.	False
Its a paradigmatic example of the limits of nationalism and the need for organizations like the UN and EU.	Poorer countries are less likely to act when they think theyre unfairly bearing the burden of a problem kickstarted by Western industrial development.	Its a fundamental threat to progress against climate change and thus the entirety of the human race.	But the stakes are even bigger than they appear at first glance Its not just the survival of Western democracy thats at stake but the planet itself.	Its especially important that wealthy countries take the lead on the issue.	False
One published by Newsweek is a favorite of climate deniers.	The other from 2007 discussed how to survive global warming.	Perhaps not surprisingly his staff seems to share these views.	This climate denier for example	The hoax seems to have had its intended effect on Trump who according to Politico quickly got lathered up about the media's hypocrisy.	False
Last summer the Guardian investigated Trumps coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels.	The estate was at high risk for flooding during heavy rains and storms with water already pooling on the premises in addition to nearby bridges and roads in Palm Beach.	President Donald Trump has called climate change a hoax and a very expensive tax on American businesses that make the US less competitive.	And perhaps even eventually render Trumps Southern White House uninhabitable.	So what would a 10 foot rise in sea levels mean for Florida?	False
Shes right.	An activist from the Sunrise Movement a liberal environmental group asked Mr. Castro why he should be trusted to move the country away from fossil fuels when he supported fracking.	He recounted discovering that 70 percent of subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site saying Thats the environmental injustice of racism that were dealing with.	Mr. Castro won some of his strongest applause when he leaned into his rsum as the nations housing chief and connected his work with the need to protect low income communities from environmental damages.	Still Mr. Castro said its actually what comes next that is most important saying he would impose a fee on carbon pollution enact an executive order prohibiting fossil fuel exploration and development on public lands and spend 10 trillion over 10 years to reach net zero emissions by 2045.	False
Thats not how it works.	Mr. Trump believes that because he doesnt get close enough to the dossiers to fully understand them.	These conversations come at a particularly fraught time because Trump who does not share his predecessor Barack Obamas commitment to clean energy has been reviewing the United States environmental policies.	He said that the law is the law and it must be obeyed regardless of what Trump thinks adding somewhat sardonically that not everything in international agreements is fake news.	Bush in the early 90s.	False
However there was a remarkable lack of participation from individuals in China the planets worst greenhouse gas emitter minus a protest in Hong Kong.	Rep. Adam Kinzinger R IL reiterated that point to Greta Thunberg and the other climate kids who testified before theHouse Committee on Foreign Affairs andSelect Committee on the Climate Crisis on Wednesday.	We also pay attention to the climate and we are also thinking deeply interacting taking action and so many people are very conscientious on this issue she added.	Meanwhile as the West looks at options to combat climate change we all know that Chinas global emissions continue to rise.	Several climate change activists in D.C. decried the U.S. for its role in contributing to climate change despite the fact that the U.S. has made great strides in reducing its carbon output seeing the largest decline in CO2 emissions in the world for 9th time this century in 2017.	False
The declarations signers insisted that public policy must respect scientific and economic realities and not just reflect the most fashionable trend of the day.	Climate science should be less political while climate policies should be more scientific the declaration stated.	Scientists should openly address the uncertainties and exaggerations in their predictions of global warming while politicians should dispassionately count the real benefits as well as the imagined costs of adaptation to global warming and the real costs as well as the imagined benefits of mitigation.	Late last month a group of over 500 scientists and climate professionals sent a European Climate Declaration to the Secretary General of the United Nations appealing for an open debate on climate change.	Therefore there is no cause for panic and alarm they noted.	True
When you think about what that rule meant it was about picking winners and losers.	That's wrong.	first reported on the repeal proposal.	first reported on the repeal proposal.	The EPA can repeal the Clean Power Plan but not the laws of economics Bloomberg tweeted.	False
Climate is your closet wardrobe.	Currys ultimate conclusion Some of the worst case scenarios strain credulity.	The other side of her thinks were foolish for believing her claim that climate change will destroy the world in 12 years.	Its just the weather in D.C.	The climate crisis is real yall Ocasio said on Instagram.	False
We have to think about the whole world.	You know what they tell me?	Because weve got to be working on all fronts.	And so what do they do?	So heres what really scares me.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The law was passed with the intention of aiding in climate change efforts.	In a study titled Biofuels and the Environment The Second Triennial Report to Congress the Environmental Protection Agency EPA determined thatethanol derived from corn and soybeans is causing serious harm to the environment.Water soil and air quality were all found to be adversely affected by biofuel mandates.	Evidence since enactment of the Energy Independence and Security Act suggests an increase in acreage planted with soybeans and corn with strong indications from observed changes in land use that some of this increase is a consequence of increased biofuel production read a portion of the 159 page report.	Corn growers however support the mandate as it drives demand for the product.	True
Where does he get off thinking he's going to stop human progress?	We know that certain oil and gas corporations have been fighting public policy on this issue have been hiding their own science and research at the expense of our climate and human life he said.	economy thefossil fuel industry runs thiseconomy it'screated all of thiswealth revolutionizedtransportation communications industry lifted people out of poverty Watters said.	Watters asked.	OCASIO CORTEZ CALLS CLIMATE CHANGE OUR 'WORLD WAR II' WARNS THE WORLD WILL END IN 12 YEARS So whenever those two things come in contrast or in opposition I'm always going to choose the people of this country.	False
But we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good.	It is good economics.	The views are their own.	Policies work best when they are narrowly tailored to the behavior that they seek to alter.	Thus if we want markets to produce more clean innovation we should reward innovators rather than penalize polluters in the hopes that doing so will indirectly induce them to produce innovation.	False
I wasnt interested in that.	I am still not interested in that.	While working for Marco Rubios presidential campaign in February 2016 Wheeler wrote a now deleted Facebook post in which he called Trump a PR person and a bully which he said should alone should disqualify him from the White House.	He will talk to us.	Scott Pruitt was the most scandal plagued cabinet member in an administration rife with corruption said Christy Goldfuss an environment advisor to Obama who is now at the Center for American Progress.	False
have adopted almost precisely as I proposed it in 2008.	Thats why I object to the Democrats as much as to the Republicans.	In February a group of high profile Republicans announced their support for a plan that would tax carbon dioxide emissions in order to slow global warming which they believe to be caused by humans.	If its a tax taken by the government it makes the government bigger and it depresses the economy.	suggest 55 per ton yields a dividend of 1000 per legal resident and 3000 for a family with two or more children with one half share for each child a maximum of two half shares per family.	False
Were bringing the loss of our future to the steps of the Capitol because they need to prepare to own this death 17 year old organizer Maddie Graham said.	We need systemic change.	Im standing with the young activists on todaystay strong in this fight!	Climate change activists across the globe opted to protest what they consider a climate crisis on the biggest shopping day of the year disrupting shoppers at the Water Tower Place shopping mall in Chicago Illinois and holding a Black Friday Funeral For Future in the nations capital Warren emphatically expressed her support for their efforts.	Think about that three things 70 percent reduction she added.	False
Its a danger to the air we breathe.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	Safe fracking is like clean coal pure fiction Sanders said in a statement Wednesday.	But for me I think the way we get there is we just say sorry guys but by 2035 youre done she said during CNNs town hall.	It causes earthquakes.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Most Republicans dont buy into a carbon tax.	But the White House quickly disavowed the statements allegedly made by the two officials marking the second time in three weeks the Trump administration has had to shoot down carbon tax rumors.	President Donald Trump told the American Energy Alliance in a survey taken during the campaign that he opposed a carbon tax and the Obama administrations social cost of carbon estimate.	Trump also ordered the Environmental Protection Agency EPA to review and possibly rescind the Clean Power Plan the cornerstone of the former administrations global warming agenda.	False
But in politics it's become a heated issue that speaks to the current red versus blue divide.	'Not the cause of it but the things that we observe.'	'To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced' Pruitt said.	When Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders was asked about a link Monday she touted the country's environmental record and moved on.	'I'm not sure specifically on the Paris climate deal but as he said at the time the goal is to always do the very best when taking care of the environment and taking proper steps' Huckabee Sanders replied.	False
Whatever the reason we have to be ready to deal with them.	I dont know why he said.	I believe the climate is changing.	However Lengyel waffled on humanitys role in shaping the climate behind these storms.	It also shows that the military is on the front lines of the consequences of rising temperatures.	False
As we use and reuse things it gives us some social engagement status.	But in the booming city of Rio de Janeiro a luxury hotel has been turning trash into treasure for more than a decade long before food waste was at the forefront of anyone's mind.	It helps give other islanders something to think about Ritter explains.	For many hotels simple knowledge of the issue has resulted in greater observance from staff and ultimately less waste.	I think part of the benefit of a detailed audit like this is that it increases everyone's mindfulness about what they are doing with food says Gordon Jackson the manager of the resort's Waste to Wealth initiative.	False
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	It was only about past events.	AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING NEW STUDY FINDS What this suggests is that its a feedback loop said the study's lead author Alice Marzocchi.	The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	False
But adults must do everything not to bring teenagers and children into some extreme situations.	And some individuals were even more scathing with sick trolls branding her the little girl with mental problems and others suggesting shes not sexy enough in vile rants.	She already has an honour to her name after winning Amnesty International's highest Ambassadors of Conscience human rights award last month.	The Russian president claimed its hypocritical to lecture poorer countries on the environmental impact of their bids to become more developed like the West.	She raged People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing we are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and the fairy tale of endless economic growth.	True
That was the right thing to do.	The Trump Administration's persistent and indefensible denial of climate change and their continued assault on actions essential to stemming its increasing devastation is reprehensible and I will use every available legal tool to fight their dangerous agenda said Schneiderman a Democrat.	This president has tremendous courage Pruitt said Monday.	The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants.	HAZARD Ky. AP A coalition of left leaning states and environmental groups are vowing to fight the Trump administration's move to kill an Obama era effort to limit carbon emissions from coal fired power plants.	False
Bernhardt stressed as he has before that he takes ethics extremely seriously is working to improve the agencys ethics program and is confident that he has complied with all rules and will be cleared at the end of the investigation.	But a good portion of the discussion focused on climate change environmental protections and an ethics investigation against Bernhardt and several other agency officials.	If you have a view on what you want to happen well carry it out when you execute it.	That is my position.	Interiors internal watchdog recently opened two ethics probes the first of them just four days into Bernhardts tenure intomultiple high ranking interior officials including the secretary.	False
It can be summed up in one word confusion.	Sometimes it appears to be a result of ineptitude other times it appears to be tactical.	They seem not to have read it.	Then came the election of Donald Trump.	So Tillersons perception that the Paris accord is not good for China or the United States was not shared by the two nations leaders.	False
The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	So how do climate activists get their way?	The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN but it is far from sound science or even good economics.	False
To not say anything about it is just ignorance and its irresponsible.	It was something that was going to happen when peoples grandchildren were alive.	And that has changed Graumlich said.	Lisa Graumlich the dean of the environment college at the University of Washington attended the State of the Union address as a guest of the Washington congresswoman Pramila Jayapal.	Even the Democratic rebuttal to Trumps speech by the ex Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams only mentioned climate change once in a list of priorities the US could pursue.	False
The essay by Nathan Schneider appearing in the May 31 issue of America titled Trumps war on the environment is a war on the young and the unborn makes the incredible case that withdrawing from the Paris agreement constitutes a war on future generations tantamount to genocide.	That doesnt put them at war with the environment and much less at war with the young and the unborn.	No matter that historically the environmentalist movement has been closely allied with the population control movement literally waging a war on the unborn through its promotion of vigorous anti natality programs and abortion on demand.	To judge a particular accord as contrary to the nations interests on the other hand is hardly a war on the environment.	The fact that a president keeps his promises is usually considered a good thing.	False
With this report the Lung Association also calls out Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency EPA for ongoing threats to the nations air quality including steps to roll back or weaken enforcement of the Clean Air Act.	Forget the Golden State.	The report looked at pollution levels from 2014 to 2016.	Overall the report said about133 million Americans more than four of 10 live with unhealthful levels of air pollution placing them at risk for premature death and other serious health effects such as lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	SinceCalifornia is known for its strict environmental regulations why are so many cities from the state typically on this list?It's because the state would be far worse off without its strict laws on tailpipe pollution and eliminating coal fired power plants.	False
Diversity takes millions of years to evolve but can be damaged in the blink of an eye.	Co author Sammy de Grave head of research at the Oxford University Museum added The study was published in the journal Communications Biology.	Research Fellow Dr Katie Davis an evolutionary palaeobiologist at the University of York explained Understanding the processes that shaped the strikingly irregular distribution of species richness across the Tree of Life is a major research agenda.	Professor of Evolutionary Paleobiology Matthew Wills at the Milner Centre for Evolution at the University of Bath said We are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of a magnitude unparalleled since the asteroid impact that wiped out the dinosaurs.	Humans are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of species not seen since the demise of the dinosaurs British scientists warned.	False
The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate.	Asked for comment the Department of Justice pointed to comments made by Jeffrey Wood a political appointee at the DOJ handling environmental cases who spoke about the Juliana case at a law conference last week.	But then the childrens lawsuit is an unusual case.	The local governments are citing nuisance statutes and seeking money from oil companies to pay for damages caused by climate change whereas the childrens case is trying to force the government to enact policies to curb greenhouse gas emissions.	Ann Carlson a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests theres something there that piques the courts interest.	False
And the idea that you're signing up for some type of agenda I don't want to ... send a signal that that's what I'm doing because I'm not doing that DeSantis said .	CNN Republican Florida Gov.	We're going to do what works.	My environmental policy is just to do things that benefit Floridians.	We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future?	False
When the threat arose yesterday people were still doing their activities on the beach and did not immediately run and they became victims he told a news briefing.	A 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia.	The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed.	Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque among the buildings damaged.	Indonesia's meteorological agency has been criticised for its response but officials said the waves struck while the warning was in place.	False
Todays decision is a disappointing continuation of a historic pattern Other people get all the profits and the tribes get all the risk and harm said Jan Hasselman an Earthjustice attorney representing the tribe in an ongoing federal lawsuit through which Standing Rock and three other tribes still hope to shut down the pipeline.	That aims to ensure development projects arent built in areas where minority populations might not have the resources to defend their rights.	The judge said the Corps also didnt adequately study how the pipeline might disproportionately affect the tribal community a concept known as environmental justice.	Boasberg in his ruling Wednesday said that issue was a closer call than the others but that it still did not justify shutting down the pipeline.	Boasberg ruled on June 14 that the Corps largely complied with environmental law but he ordered the agency to reconsider certain areas of its analysis and took arguments on whether to shut down the 1200 mile 1930 kilometer pipeline while the work is done.	False
They say the president favours development over conservation.	But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a dramatic fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes.	Far right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe.	Over the past decade previous governments in Brazil had managed to reduce deforestation with concerted action by federal agencies and a system of fines.	Mr Bolsonaro who in July dismissed a similar Inpe report as flawed has not commented on the latest data.	False
Theres rich material here to look into his behavior and his fitness for continued service in the office.	Zinke is one the most ethically challenged members of the Cabinet and maybe one of the most ethically challenged secretaries of the Interior weve had in living memory Rep. Gerry Connolly D VA who could chair the House Oversight Government Operations Subcommittee if Democrats win in November told Politico this week.	However environmental activists and some lawmakers were appalled by the statement.	This means conservation preserving culture and facilitating recreation.	We should be in the business of being a partner.	False
I have decided that it is appropriate and in the public interest to reconsider the rule Pruitt wrote in a letter sent Wednesday to counsel for a utility group and officials at the U.S. Small Business Administration SBA.	UWAG and others argued the rule violated the Clean Water Act and Administrative Procedures Act.	To an unprecedented extent the Agency withheld fundamental information purporting to justify the Rule UWAG argued adding that included pages of the record that demonstrably were not entitled to confidential treatment.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Trumps attempt to halt these clean water protections for mercury lead and arsenic from coal power plants is dangerous and irresponsible said Mary Anne Hitt the director of the Sierra Clubs Beyond Coal campaign.	False
This is something thats happening now and needs to be addressed now.	Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because climate change is an issue that affects every other issue agriculture the economy including tourism.	Kim Ross ReThink Energy Florida leader resident witnessed people in her communityinTallahasseefeeling helpless after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster which damaged Gulf Coast ecosystems.	This isnt something in the future Ross says.	Though not an extensive conversation that was still more time spent talkingabout climate change than in all of threedebates combined between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump in 2016.	False
Now we find ourselves celebrating an agreement where the worlds largest carbon emitter China is permitted to increase their emissions until 2025 and to continue bringing a coal fired power plant online every 10 days.	We even turn a blind eye to the fact that China lied about its carbon emissions when it first came to the table with its pledge last year.	They rely for so much and we would be giving them so little.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In his statement Monday however Pompeo maintained that the United States was on the right track both economically and environmentally.	GRETA THUNBERG TURNS DOWN ENVIRONMENTAL PRIZE SAYS 'CLIMATE MOVEMENT DOES NOT NEED ANY MORE AWARDS' Half of the countries that were legally bound to the Kyoto Protocol treaty failed to adhere to their pledges and the host country of Japan even increased their carbon emissions Sen. Jim Inhofe R Okla. said as the Paris climate agreement was being debated in 2016.	False
California Democratic Gov.	Fire is not necessarily bad for forests.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	Combined with drought insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality the op ed continues.	But theres been a change in fire behavior over the last century as the state and federal government began dousing the blazes.	False
She calls for a World War II scale mobilization that includes high quality education and health care clean air and water and safe affordable housing.	Ocasio Cortez said in a statement that the plan will create unprecedented levels of prosperity and wealth for all while ensuring economic and environmental justice and security.	The resolution does not include a price tag but some Republicans predict it would cost in the trillions of dollars.	A news conference at the Capitol is set for Thursday the day they introduce the resolution.	Trump who has expressed doubts about climate change also is likely to oppose it.	False
I'm just not seeing it.	Arguments about science aren't necessarily going to be of any comfort to you Gore said.	But Gore's and Ivanka's influence clearly was not enough.	...	We have the ability to prevent even worse sea level rise and and even worse catastrophes that are also caused by the climate crisis Gore said.	False
Experts say the answer lies in their herd like behaviour.	This particular species seems to be very prone to that herd behaviour.	It's a problem you get with these very social animals that tend to for reasons we have never been clear on end up following either a sick leader onto the beach or end up getting lost as a group Dr Brownlow says.	It's probably not anything to do with what humans have done.	So what could be behind these cases?	False
Our community and our planet are under attack yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate.	Its now or never.	Inslee urged Congress and the US Department of Transportation to implement even tougher regulations including lower speed limits for high hazard flammable trains and to use safer cars that are strong enough to protect volatile contents from the heat of a fire or the impact of a collision.	While federal regulators acknowledge the risks of crude by rail they have taken few steps toward increasing safety Inslee wrote in an op ed for the Columbian last year.	Were up against the wire and nobody no politician no agency no industry is stepping up to resolve the climate crisis Mike one of the protesters locked to a flower pot said in a statement.	False
The entire report can be viewed at	The studies clash with policy under President Donald Trump who has been rolling back Obama era environmental and climate protections to maximize production of domestic fossil fuels including crude oil already the highest in the world above Saudi Arabia and Russia.	The report the Fourth National Climate Assessment Volume II supplements a study issued last year that concluded humans are the main driver of global warming and which warned of potentially catastrophic effects to the planet.	The Congressionally mandated report written with the help of more than a dozen U.S. government agencies and departments outlined the projected impacts of global warming in every corner of American society in a dire warning at odds with the Trump administrations pro fossil fuels agenda.	It said global warming would disproportionately hurt the poor broadly undermine human health damage infrastructure limit the availability of water alter coastlines and boost costs in industries from farming to energy production.	False
But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Like this story?	wondered one user.	Not sure after tonight who has less time to live Biden or the planet said one.	False
Its not just rhetoric.	Now it looks like were condemned to repeat it.	Thats despite the fact that the 38 page document projects more frequent and more expensive disasters.	President Trump wants the United States to back out of the Paris climate agreement and the EPA is working to undo the main policy for restricting greenhouse gases the Clean Power Plan.	The damages from the hurricanes heat waves wildfires and tornadoes in 2017 cost at least 306 billion.	False
And I think that we're very far from doing that.	Neither alone is going to get it done.	I talk to our kids and young people all the time and they are more environmentally sensitive they're more pro alternative energy they get the natural gas thing instead of coal.	And Rooney said the intransigence most of his fellow Republicans including President Trumpdisplay on the issue is harmful to the GOP brand and could come back to haunt them in 2020.	That is rapidly changing how Americans think about it David Doniger with the Natural Resources Defense Council wrote in a recent blog.	False
This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you me and the whole world.	And so what happens to these forests truly affects all life on Earth.	Meet the trees get to know their superpowers and learn how scientists are trying to protect them.	We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster not just locally but globally.	False
I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice.	I believe I am the only person here who will say unequivocally this is my number one priority Steyer continued.	I know that we have to deal with this crisis.	Steyer then claimed he had previously taken on oil companies and beaten them on environmental laws and pushed clean energy across this country.	Democrat presidential candidate and billionaire Tom Steyer once again vowed to declare a state of emergency over the climate crisis America faces during the sixth Democrat presidential debate at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles California.	False
Its not just the future of the planet thats at stake here.	For the White House bolstering the coal industry seems to trump these other matters.	Health isnt a big part of the conversation about Trump administration assault on climate change mitigation policies but it needs to be.	The public health community should be there too.	But whats largely been lost in the conversation is how much the attempt to repeal the regulation on carbon dioxide emissions will impact peoples health.	False
It's made us more sustainable environmentally and also economically.	There's no question it's better than putting it in the trash Franczyk says.	His hope is that the concept will spread here.	It's an industrial strength grinder that gobbles up all the scraps of food the store can't sell explains Karen Franczyk who is the sustainability program manager for Whole Foods' North Atlantic region.	While Whole Foods donates a lot of surplus food to food banks there's a lot waste left over.	False
California Gov.	As president I have one obligation and that obligation is to the Americanpeople Trump said during a speech in theRose Garden announcingthe decision.	The internationalagreement which was signed in 2015 and went into effect seven months ago is considered a major part theenvironmental legacy of the Obama administration.	Michael A. Needham chief executive officer of the conservative Heritage Action for America applauded the president's move.	Jerry Brown said he hopes Trump's insane move to back out of the Paris accord will spur others to action.	False
Sandwiched between much of our entertainment are messages that perpetuate liberal themes The military is bloodthirsty radical Muslims must be handled with kid gloves trial lawyers and climate change activists are crusading heroes and above all corporations are evil.	When they are not being greedy or trying to dominate the world they are responsible for polluting the planet.	No one doubts that there was real liability in the case but Dark Waters is a conspiracy horror movie that ignores facts to shake up its audience.	But popular culture whether it be books TV film music or video games remain dominated by the Left.	Narratives like the ones above dont get turned into stories by accident.	False
This is absolution for those who want to feel green but cant be bothered with going to the effort and expense of actually living their own values.	Personal sacrifice is of little consequence so why even try?	We should make it clear that personal environmental stewardship is not only more effective it is a more moral way to live.	Why progressives refuse to live by their own Earth Day bluster George Monbiot recently expressed a carefully calibrated environmental message that allows people on the environmental left to feel self righteous without making any real sacrifice.	Individual actions are mere bollocks useless gestures.	False
Its the right thing to do.	One area where the Texan came down strong No limits on the meat industry despite calls from the United Nations for people to change their diet to avoid more damage to global land use.	He said the government should help people move but avoided answering a question from the moderator Don Lemon about whether some areas were simply too risky for human habitation.	I reject any notion that we have to radically or fundamentally change how we eat or what we eat I think we just have to be more responsible in the way that we do it and the best way to do that is to allow the market to respond by setting a price on carbon he said.	Its the best way to send a pricing signal.	False
The president's statement focused on the beauty of nature and the importance of preserving it for future generations.	Jobs matter!'	In a flurry of other tweets he criticized President Obama for prioritizing the environment over other issues such as 'ISIS and Ebola.'	He said in the second paragraph 'economic growth enhances environmental protection.'	On Earth Day thousands of scientists students and research advocatesmarched around the world in protest of Trump's research budget cuts.	False
That is shameful and that is cowardly Margolin said.	I agree that we need to ensure that we move forward in a sustainable rational manner said Graves.	But his idea of what that means is very different than the activists' vision.	Can you really look them in the eye and say 'No sorry I couldn't do anything because that country over there didn't do anything so if they're not going to do it then I'm not.'	A Washington Post Kaiser Family Foundation poll this week shows a majority of teenagers believe human caused climate change will cause harm to them.	False
He is the only candidate to put out an animal and wildlife welfare policy which seeks to end euthanasia for household dogs and cats and strengthen protections for endangered species.	But nearly all have policy proposals that drive home the need for the nation to be a better environmental steward.	We need to connect the dots Castro said Wednesday.	We can do that.	Her policy vision unveiled in April includes overturning Trumps land rollbacks a moratorium on oil and gas leases on federal land and recruiting 10000 youth and veterans for a 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps.	False
Pitting important environmental goals against working families who rely on affordable American energy is a false choice the organization said.	Sen. Bernie Sanders I Vt. upped the ante in his progressive agenda on Thursday when he signaled support forcriminal charges against executives at oil companies.	Fossil fuel executives should be criminally prosecuted for the destruction they have knowingly caused Sanders tweeted.	That turned into a federal lawsuit alleging the oil giant defrauded its shareholders with its messaging on climate change.Schneiderman resigned in 2018 amid allegations of physical abuse but legal battles continued to swirl around the company.	The cost of inaction is unacceptable Sanders' website claimed.	False
Energy and investment executives who met with Pope Francis earlier in June stood mostly in agreement that a tax on carbon emissions is the best path forward to combating climate change.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The leader of the Catholic Church encouraged executives to give up fossil fuels and embrace renewable energy technology.	Majority Whip Steve Scalise and West Virginia Rep. David McKinley introduced a House resolution in April that explicitly condemns a tax on carbon dioxide pollution.	While carbon tax proposals appeared popular at the Vatican it has not garnered the same amount of support in Congress.	False
People who want to ban golden rice or other GMOs people who deny that a fetus is a whole human people who insist fetal pain is a myth people who get outraged by claims that say men cant get pregnant.	Both GLAAD and Human Rights Watch cant seem to decide whether the science is bad because its fake and flawed or bad because it might work.	They dont refuse to take medical treatment or prescribed drugs.	Anyway what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning.	Etc.	False
'I don't agree with that at all.	'I think the president is right.'	I happen to disagree strongly with him on this particular issue.'	'Any time that people were taking money out of your pocket and you make them put it back in they're not going to be happy.	Ross said much of the predicted backlash from other countries that drive global warming concerns would be rooted in economics not science.	False
Lets help bring the death knell to this industry thats done so much harm.	NYCs lawsuit does appear to suggest the intent is not to destroy but rather to mitigate harm.	Andreally what were trying to do is affect the bottom line the financial equation for the use of fossil fuels she said.	The City does not seek to impose liability on Defendants for their direct emissions of greenhouse gases anddoes not seek to restrain Defendants from engaging in their business operations the city wrote in its complaint.	Judge John Keenan wrote in hisopinionat the time that legislative branch was the appropriate arena to address global warming.	False
If Curbelo had been half the climate champion he claims he is he wouldnt be desperately seeking an ad littered with lies such as this said Sierra Club PAC Director Sarah Burton in a statement.	The ad was released on Oct. 30 and immediatelynational environmental groups that generally align with Democrats called foul underscoring their support of Curbelos Democratic challenger Debbie Mucarsel Powell.	While he broke ranks this summer to express his support for a carbon tax as a possible way to combat climate change more than 30 of Curbelos Republican colleagues on the caucus supported a symbolic measure that disavowed a carbon tax.	In one of South Floridascongressional districts the party machine swept in to prop up a two term incumbent by painting his opponent as a puppet of fossil fuel interests and dirty coal money.	The only catch?	False
However there appears to be little consensus among scientific researchers.	Is the US getting hit more frequently by hurricanes?	The interaction between the hot dry air of the Sahara Desert and the cooler more humid air from the Gulf of Guinea below creates high altitude winds known as the African Easterly Jet.	Hurricane Sandy and Hurricane Andrew began life as tropical waves off the coast of west Africa.	Atlantic hurricane season has reached its peak and as Florida deals with devastation wrought by Irma RT takes a look at where the phenomena come from and if they are really becoming more frequent?	False
Environmental groups generally support the resolution.	They've got to get an answer to us by Feb. 26 or face the consequences warns Ornstein.	We need not to discourage them she says.	They need to do a whole lot more homework and much more research and analysis before we can ever even really engage in this discussion says Colin Woodall senior vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association.	Jeremy Ornstein 18 says he deferred going to college to work with the organization.	False
Earlier this year TrumptappedHapper to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting adversarial scientific peer review of climate science part of the administrations relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis.	He has called climate science a cult claimed Earth is in the midst of a CO2 famine and said the demonization of carbon dioxide isjust like the demonization of the poor Jewsunder Hitler.	He has long argued that the planet and humans benefit from increased carbon dioxide emissions.	The CO2 Coalition a right wing think tank that Happer co founded and that argues Earth benefits from humans pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere confirmedhis upcoming resignation in a Tuesday post to its website and praised him for his efforts.	While your proposed review of alarmist analyses and projections has been delayed we believe your work in calling attention to the problem of unscientific climate alarmism has reduced the chances of the dramatic increases in energy prices that would arise from the banning of fossil fuels that some have proposed Patrick Moore and Caleb Rossiter two representatives of the CO2 Coalition wrote in a joint statement.	False
Nothing.	But most of the responsibility lies with industry not individuals she said adding this is exactly what the fossil fuel industry wants us to talk about.	Look whats happening now in the Amazon whats going on?	Some of it is with lightbulbs some of it is on straws some of it dang is on cheeseburgers.	With many questions focused on what candidates would ask Americans to sacrifice Elizabeth Warren pushed back on the framing.	False
Do you know what?	Even you.	But before you ring up your grandchildren and warnthem to cancel the marquee theyve booked for their 100th birthday celebrations perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothmans cheery prediction.	In the geologic past this type of behavior is associated with mass extinction.	R i g h t. So what youre saying Dr Rothman is that youre allowing plus or minus 10000 years leeway for this mass extinction which wont definitely happen but which may happen.	False
It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self reinforcing cycle takes over.	A link to a number of papers since 2015 showing dramatic climate change globally and in particular with extremes at the poles is still controversial to some.	Recently a policy briefing from the world leading Woods Hole Research Center has moved our understanding of this risk further through a clearly written summary.	We have known this since 2007.	Consequently an initial warming leads to more emission leading to more warming and more emission.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	We stand for spreading the word about the science we do especially when it has a potential impact on millions and millions of people.	Who loses out?	Anti science censorship has become a hallmark of the Trump administration.	The intent is to try to suppress a message in this case the increasing danger of human caused climate change said Michael Mann a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University.	False
When the Times doesnt challenge a pro life message better read closely.	He presents himself as a man who is pro life.	If he is a good pro life believer he must understand that family is the cradle of life and one must defend its unity said Francis who in the past has said that advocates like Mr. Trump of a wall to keep out migrants on the Mexican border were not Christian.	Man is stupid the Bible said he said.	Then he said decide and history will judge the decisions.	False
Putting a price on carbon can help change the behavior of polluters.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	While the bill has little chance of passing it is intended to spark a debate over carbon pricing as the Democratic Party prepares to take over the lower chamber of Congress.	Altogether 13 GOP members of the bipartisan climate group lost their elections and numerous others chose to retire.	In order to shield citizens from higher fossil fuel prices revenue from the tax would be given back out to households.Sponsors of the legislation believe it would slash greenhouse gas emissions by one third over a 10 year period and a 90 percent cut by 2050 compared to 2015 emission levels.	False
Environmentalists spent years lobbying and campaigning to get such policies in place.	The League of Conservation Voters LCV led eight other groups in a legal challengeof Trumps recent executive order to reopen large swaths of Arctic seas to offshore drilling.LCV is one of the many environmental groups that endorsed Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential election.	Theyare living up to threats made after President Donald Trump took office namely to use the courts to preserve Obama administration policies.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Earthjustice sued to stop the Environmental Protection Agencys EPA decision to indefinitely stay the implementation of wastewater discharge rules for coal plants.	False
They make surrounding communities less healthy and less safe.	We would work it out.	Its a danger to the air we breathe.	They must be immediately banned.	No.	False
Early on under Jurisdiction the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national industrial economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality.	So whats actually in it?	Under Scope of the Plan a section on labor states the committees final plan shall Require strong enforcement of labor workplace safety and wage standards that recognize the rights of workers to organize and unionize free of coercion intimidation and harassment and creation of meaningful quality career employment.	Editors Note This post has been updated with grammatical fixes.	More Ocasio Cortez sees this plan is being a vehicle through which social equality might finally realized through theuse of reparations to right historicalinjustices.	False
Its a challenging issue.	Im taking a very pragmatic look at it in scoping this Newsom told The Los Angeles Times recently.	But at what cost is this being done especially when nobody else is doing anything.	One cannot just immediately abut against a century of practice and policy Newsom said.	Its bloody combat.	False
The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	So how do climate activists get their way?	The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN but it is far from sound science or even good economics.	False
Justin Haskins Jhaskins is executive editor of The Heartland Institute and the co founder of StoppingSocialism.com.	Either way you should stick to what the best available science says not the fear mongering of anti conservative zealots.	This is total nonsense.	However the cause of this increase is debated and there is low confidence in attribution of changes in tropical cyclone activity to human influence.	The Washington Posts editorial board in an article titled Yes you can blame President Trump for Hurricane Florence even went so far as to say Trump was complicit for the storm.	False
Okay?	They only end up making an ass out of u and mption'.	Because as the great Samuel L. Jackson once uttered on film Never make assumptions.	Okay.	Okay.	False
