This followed an article published byNewsweek in which two psychologists mused on the human taboo against cannibalism noting thatphilosophers have argued that burying the dead could be wasteful in the context of the fight against world hunger.	This dystopian idea attracted attention recently after Bernie Sanders brought it up at the last Democrat presidential debate saying people need to be need to curb population growth.	Absent from Bernies argument in favor of curbing the population was an acknowledgment of what itll do to the economy and public services two things that the socialist senator allegedly cares about.	Cannibalism for the climate thats how far theyve gone!	Are you an insider at Google Facebook Twitter or any other tech company who wants to confidentially reveal wrongdoing or political bias at your company?	True
The authors conclude that 'national security can and must be pursued with an approach that preserves our natural heritage.'	More than 2500 experts from around the world have rallied around the new study championing its importance.	One of its authors a leading professor from Stanford condemned the US border wall project branding it a 'crime against biodiversity'.	The research paper also calls for the government to encourage scientific research in the borderlands to inform and assist environmental evaluation and mitigation efforts.	Some of the recommendations include Following existing environmental laws taking action to mitigate ecological harm and forgoing physical barriers in particularly sensitive areas.	False
Like this story?	Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers.	The Center for American Progress a left leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement saying in a statement that offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources.	People need jobs the Gulf Coast states need revenue and Americans do not want to be dependent on foreign oil.	The Project on Government Oversight warned in February that the uncompetitive lease system used by the government to auction sites allows energy companies to secure offshore leases for a pittance.	False
The world must wake up.	Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and Sen. Ed Markey retweeted links to a report signed by more than 11000 scientists who argue that the population must be stabilizedand ideally gradually reducedwithin a framework that ensures social integrity.	The crisis touches every aspect of our lives.	Thats why we need a to fundamentally transform our society Markey added.	Citizens generally are more concerned about getting a good education obtaining better healthcare and achieving political freedoms than they are tackling climate change according to a 2015 survey from the United Nations.	True
Trump wants to scare people into letting him ignore the law and endanger wildlife and people Brian Segee an attorney with the Center for Biological Diversity said in a statement.	Driven by an anti immigrant agenda the Trump administration is callously putting construction of an environmentally and culturally destructive border wall above water resources for communities on both sides of the border federally protected lands clean air and the lives of hundreds of endangered species all while turning a blind eye to the vital relationships of cross border communities and our longstanding values as a nation she said in a statement.	Despite sidestepping these laws DHS is committed to responsible environmental stewardship and will continue to assess potential impacts coordinate with relevant stakeholders and to the extent possible offset or mitigate potential impacts department spokesman Carlos Diaz said in an email to HuffPost.	It described the sector which includes some 60 miles of the U.S. Mexico border as an area of high illegal entry for which there is an immediate need to improve current infrastructure and construct additional border barriers and roads.	Trumps wall is a divisive symbol of fear and hatred and it does real harm to the landscape and communities.	False
We cant sit back and just do nothing while people are getting sick and dying especially when you know theres another way.	My message to you Mr. President is that as a public servant and especially as a president your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people Schwarzenegger begins.	It deals specifically with reducing greenhouse gas emissions particularly carbon dioxide CO2 with the stated objective of combatting global warming.	Meanwhile he should probably think about terminating that video.	He then proceeds to chronicle the negative effects of pollution in the United States.	False
It declares climate change a national emergency envisions building new solar wind and geothermal power sources across the country and commits 200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality.	Mr. Inslees absence could create an opening for another presidential aspirant to seize the mantle of climate candidate.	WASHINGTON Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a 16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet warming greenhouse gases.	He is bestowing that same name upon his new plan which calls for the United States to eliminate fossil fuel use by 2050.	True
What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency.	It is very worrying.	The numbers don't lie.	It may be a climate change feedback.	Prof Nisbet says there is a fear of a vicious cycle where methane drives up temperatures which in turn releases more methane from natural sources.	False
The Associated Press contributed to this report.	We're for clean air and water but at the same time we're for reasonable regulations Deputy Interior Secretary David Bernhardt told reporters.	California Gov.	Speaking to MSNBCs Andrea Mitchell at an environmentalsummitin San Francisco last week Brown tore into Trump for the presidents controversial tweets about the death toll in Puerto Rico from last years Hurricane Maria and urged voters to vote for Democrats in Novembers midterm elections in an effort to thwart Trumps agenda.	Its bloody combat.	True
Technology could help here too.	The team's eventual aim is to capture the atoll's whole ecosystem from molecule upwards so it can help local governments and communities evaluate future risks and make better decisions.	The operation only the second ever will be led by Island Conservation a US NGO that protects endangered species by removing invasive ones.	Formerly owned by Hollywood legend Marlon Brando who was keen that it should become an ecological haven it has now developed in to a hideaway for the rich and famous seeking conscience soothing holidays that do less harm to the planet.	It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market but The Brando proves it is possible says Prof Graham Miller who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey.	False
Theres a resolution that has a dream but theres no bill theres no contents at all.	Republicans on the other hand want to get Democrats on the record in support of a proposal they see as socialism.	Manchin a Democrat appeared alongside Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski a Republican at the event hosted by the consulting firm IHS Markit.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Murkowski chairs the Senate energy committee and Manchin is the ranking Democrat.	True
My question is Why us?	How are they going to get there?	And in a visit last week to East Chicago Indianawhich is grappling with a lead contamination crisis affecting both the water and soil Pruitt reportedly denied to a resident of the town that Region 5 was on the chopping block.	And to be honest thats why its being suggested the employee said.	There are a lot of folks who simply wont do the move.	True
Doctors will also have to screen patients for adverse childhood experiences that may impact a patients physical or mental health or the provision of health care services to the patient.	It also calls for guidance regarding the identification of students and compliance with applicable nondiscrimination laws which would include the Equality Act if passed by Congress a big legislative priority of congressionalDdemocrats.	Lets take a look at how they intend to use it.	Some of the proposed specifics are harmless such as section 3 which says that the developed policies should prevent and respond to bullying and harassment.	Section G of House Bill No.	True
The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Norway's largest pension fund with 53 billion euro 59.5 billion in assets under its management said it would continue to invest in renewable energy despite the American president's decision saying in a statement that Donald Trump is jumping off a train that has already left the station.	Fox who has clashed with Trump since last year's presidential campaign said the U.S. leader's decision condemns this generation and those to come and would leave a dark legacy just to satisfy your greediness.	Wherever we live whoever we are we all share the same responsibility make our planet great again Macron added.	U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres called the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris climate agreement a major disappointment and said it was crucial that the United States remains a leader on environmental issues according to his spokesman.	True
If the human race wants a future that looks like utopia and not dystopia it needs to address such concerns Lagarde said predicting that in 50 years time oil will be a secondary commodity since green energy will have moved into prominence.	As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of carbon footprints and preaching renewable energy they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world.	This announcement drew fierce criticism from world leaders and activists with former UN secretary general Ban Ki moon accusing Trump of standing on the wrong side of history.	Speaking before a major petroleum producing nation Lagarde hastened to add that these necessary measures are well understood in Saudi Arabia.	Recent reports however suggest that Trumps move has drawn numerous countries in his wake with a number of other nations quietly withdrawing from the Paris energy goals.	True
waterways and pose far reaching effects on the safety of the nation's tap water for more than 100 million Americans.	The Obama administration claimed it was in the interest of water quality but it was really about power power in the hands of the federal government over landowners Wheeler said.	Even a child understands that small streams flow into large streams and lakes which provide drinking water for so many Americans said Craig Cox senior vice president for agriculture and natural resources for the EnvironmentalWorking Group.	The debate over the water rule was part of a larger political flashpoint over environmental issues during the 2016 presidential campaign as Trump tried to appeal to rural Americans exasperated by federal regulations and the loss of property rights.	States would overseemost ditches terrain that fills with water during or in response to rainfall certain wetlands that have been used to grow crops stormwater control ponds and water and wastewater treatment systems.	True
Jennifer Marlon a research scientist at the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication said the divergence in the way American perceive the weather is being driven by factors including the news they consume and their social circles.	Last year the Yale program which carries out scientific research on public knowledge about climate change set out to map the partisan divide on how people perceive the effects of global warming across the United States.	It has a credibility interval a measure of precision of 2 percentage points up or down.	The ReutersIpsos poll was conducted online in English between June 11 and 14 and gathered responses from 3281 people.	Scientists and researchers at the University of Michigan the University of Exeter and others came to a similar conclusion in a 2018 study which found that political bias and partisan news reporting can affect whether people indicate experiencing certain extreme weather events.	True
Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people.	We will push our allies in the movement to use racial equity in their analyses by identifying disparate impacts of pollution and climate disruption and designing remedies that improve conditions for the most overburdened first.	The Peoples Climate Movement takes to the streets on Saturday April 29th shedding light on the intertwined destinies of clean energy and employment in the United States and around the world.	Our hope rests not in convincing the willfully ignorant to change their ways but in the coming together of broad based peoples movements prepared to act to take back the initiative moving from resistance to power.	Our policy developed in partnership with mainstream environmental groups labor unions public health organizations and other stakeholders represents some of the best of what a unified national resistance could create Comprehensive equitable action against the biggest existential threat of our generation climate change.	True
Assuring that all have life liberty and the pursuit of happiness is a fundamental moral commitment that we share as citizens working together for the common good of all people and the whole creation.	Robert A. Franek is a part of Politicus Policy Discussion in which writers draw connections between real lives and public policy.	Securing the long term future of civil rights for LGBT people womens access to heath care and the flourishing of our environment that we may all enjoy life liberty and the pursuit of happiness rests not only on getting to the bottom of the Trump Russia scandal and draining the swamp in his administration along with the scandal covering right denying profit seeking in Congress but also on preventing the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court.	When the air we breathe and the water we drink are imminently threatened so that corporations can make more money life liberty and the pursuit of happiness are on the line.	Rolling back environmental protection regulations and willful denying of scientific data to forestall efforts to fight climate change is a direct threat to each persons right to life liberty and pursuit of happiness.	False
I think its OK for us to ask questions and be skeptical about information Perry said in response according to a EE News report of the event.	Skepticism that fails to account for evidence is no virtue.	Skepticism and debate are always welcome and are critically important to the advancement of science the letter said.	Energy Secretary Rick Perry offered little explanation when protesters pressed him to explain his position on climate change at an energy conference on Tuesday.	However there are also very solid conclusions that are based on decades of research and multiple lines of evidence.	False
Department of Homeland Security.	The suit seeks a ruling that a border wall with Mexico must go through normal environmental reviews which could block construction or at least cause major delays.	Curiel came to national attention in 2016 when he was presiding over one of the cases against Trump University.	Now Curiel will be hearing a case about the wall.	On Friday he heard two and a half hours of arguments and saidthat he was leaning toward deciding he has jurisdiction in a lawsuit that alleges the Trump administration overreached in waiving laws that require environmental and other reviews.	True
We want to be the ones to make the decisions on how were going to contribute.	The main concern is the desires of the constituency who are massively opposed to this project Riggi told The Daily Caller New Foundation.	But were not being given the option of deciding how to do it ourselves.	We have an aerial refueling and drone mission there.	Theres an issue with that.	False
Acting Assistant U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Wood said during a hearing before Gleason in November that environmental groups were misinterpreting the intent of the law written in 1953.	In addition to bringing supplies of affordable energy to consumers for decades to come developing our abundant offshore resources can provide billions in government revenue create thousands of jobs and will also strengthen our national security it said in a statement.	Earthjustice represented numerous environmental groups that sued the Trump administration over the April 2017 executive order reversing the drilling bans.	The bans were intended to protect polar bears walruses ice seals and Alaska Native villages that depend on the animals.	Erik Grafe an attorney with Earthjustice welcomed the ruling saying it shows that the president cannot just trample on the Constitution to do the bidding of his cronies in the fossil fuel industry at the expense of our oceans wildlife and climate.	False
Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project the group that conducted the papers report was also involved in an investigation last November targeting Exxons climate change research.	TheFund has made grants to the Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project and InsideClimate News but hasno involvement in articles they produce the papers disclosure notes.	Thursdays report dovetails with the groups previous investigations showing the oil company hid knowledge about climate change from the public for years.	Several wealthy philanthropic groups such as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund RBF Rockefeller Family Fund RFF and the Open Society Foundations bankrolled large portions of the LA Times report.	It also pressured various attorneys general into investigating Exxon namely for the purposes of bringing the company up on racketeering charges.	False
Most of us would be excited with any life said Mary Voytek an astrobiology senior scientist for NASA.	While questions remain Thursdays news represents an important advance in assessing the habitability of Enceladus Woods Hole Oceanographic Institutions Jeffrey Seewald wrote in a companion article.	We still have a long way to go in our understanding said Seewald who was not involved in the study.	A press conference viewer asking questions of the scientists via Twitter asked if NASA was talking about bacteria or algae or giant squids.	NASA and others are quick to point out this latest discovery does not mean theres life on Enceladus ehn SEHL uh duhs but that there may be conditions favorable for life.	False
Jobs matter!	We stand committed to preserving the natural beauty of our nation.	It initiates a review of efforts to reduce the emission of methane in oil and natural gas production as well as a Bureau of Land Management hydraulic fracturing rule to determine whether those reflect the presidents policy priorities.	Were going to have safety were going to have clean water were going to have clean air but so many regulations are unnecessary so many are job killing Trump said in March.	You have no love or admiration for nature.	False
We have young people that bring a lot of great qualities but maybe they dont bring a lot of life experience he said.	I guess I can understand if someone has not had a lot of life experience and theyre proposing something thats extremely unrealistic well impossible.	are expected to unveil this week does just that calling on the nation to promote the international exchange of technology expertise products funding and services with the aim to reclaim U.S. leadership on climate change to help other countries achieve a Green New Deal.	The proposals electrified a static debate that too often ranged from outright denialism of climate change by some to dubious market fixes offered by others.	Lennox Yearwood president of the national nonprofitHip Hop Caucus that he found it interesting at the activist would support a Green New Deal given Yearwoods previous service as an officer in the U.S. Air Force Reserve Chaplain Corps.	False
She wants to distinguish herself from other candidates that have already laid out climate plans with her own approach that plays to her strengths focusing on environmental justice and enforcement said one of the sources.	At the same time it is intended to assuage environmental activists worried that she has downplayed climate change on the campaign trail.	Bahram Fazeli director of research and policy for Communities for a Better Environment a California focused environmental justice group said Harris record on the environment was decent.	While activist groups say they are generally happy with Harris environmental credentials she has drawn their criticism since launching her presidential bid.	She also reportedly launched an investigation in 2016 into whether Exxon Mobil lied to the public and shareholders about the risks of climate change though her office never confirmed the probe.	True
He feels the same way about the scare about pesticides which greens have been heavily promoting ever since Rachel Carsons eco doom bestseller Silent Spring published in 1962.	So saysJames Lovelock 98 one of the worlds pre eminent environmentalists in a wide ranging interview on todays Delingpole podcast for Breitbart.	His Gaia hypothesis first formulated in the 1960s while he was working with NASA trying to establish how to detect life on Mars has inspired many people to join the green religion.	There is global warming.	Im sure theres giant corruption going on.	False
With very few exceptions governments all over the world have fallen into the trap of paying renewable energy scammers on the basis that it is necessary at least politically to be seen to be doing something about climate change Sloan writes before providing readers with an avalanche of economic data to back up her assertion.	This quiet revolution may simply be a welcome return to common sense and realism.	Earlier this month the prominent Australian economist Judith Sloan wrote a scathing essay decrying renewable energy as the greatest scam being perpetrated against taxpayers and consumers greater even than Ponzi Madoffor Enron.	After all once the photo ops are finished and the politically correct accords are duly signed amidst solemn brow furling political leaders must get back to the business of meeting the real needs of their citizenswhich all depend on the availability of affordable energy.	In the process global warming enthusiasts are being swept out he writes.	False
It also allows federal agencies to help battle the 17 major fires burning throughout the state including what is now known as the 'Carr fire' which is just 40 per cent contained and has incinerated more than 1000 homes.	And most engaged in the effort are using chemical flame retardants.	So Im not sure what he was recommending' he told the San Francisco Chronicle.	The only broadly discussed proposal for diverting water away from the Pacific came three years ago from a group calledTree People which called for more Californians to collect rainwater draining off roofs and down concrete streets.	That move gives Californians access to unemployment assistance food aid and legal and mental health counseling and makes federal financial assistance available to cities and counties that will have to repair billions of dollars worth of infrastructure damage.	False
Report director David Reidmiller said questions about the timing were relevant but said what was in the report was more important.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	During a press conference Friday officials behind the report repeatedly declined to answer questions about the timing of its release and why it contradicts public statements from Trump.	He is a flawed character Stephen Lacey editor in chief of the magazine GreenTechMedia said on his podcast The Energy Gang last year.	Former Vice President Al Gore accused the Trump administration of trying to bury a damning government report that linked global warming to the worsening of natural disasters by quietly releasing the study on the Friday after Thanksgiving.	False
The report calls for societal changes that are unprecedented in terms of scale in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius the stretch goal of the Paris accord.	The IPCCs report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December.	The IPCC noted the literature indicates that the pricing of emissions is relevant but needs to be complemented with other policies to drive the required changes in line with 1.5C consistent cost effective pathways.	However the groups report tacitly acknowledges the unlikelihood that governments will enact astronomical taxes on energy.	However the costs of meeting that goal are high based on the IPCCs own figures.	True
the former secretary of state asked.	I think its somewhat appropriate that somebody with a pseudoscience degree is here pushing pseudoscience in front of our committee Massie said before Kerry fired back.	It sounds like youre questioning the credentials of the presidents advisers but I dont think we should question your credentials today.	But there werent human beings that was a different world folks Kerry said.	Massie asked.	True
As Ive traveled this country Ive heard the human stories from frontline communities.	Families where many people have cancer.	These communities need justiceand I will stand with them she added	Warren argues that justice plays a massive role in properly addressing the climate change crisis citing studies that suggest that black and Hispanic families are disproportionately affected by air pollution caused by white people Warren calls this phenomenon environmental racism and concludes that environmental injustice is the result of decades of discrimination and environmental racism compounding in communities that have been overlooked for too long.	However Warrens role in crafting a petition to the Supreme Court on behalf of LTV Steel which helped the companys fight against a congressional requirement that it pay millions of dollars into a fund for its retired coal miners health care calls her promise into question.	False
People from all over the world are being forced to migrate because the climate crisis is affecting their livelihood.	The migrant caravan made up of thousands of mostly young males from Honduras and other Central American countries arrived at the U.S. Mexico border in November seeking asylum.	The video published on Dec. 13 largely reflects arguments made by some media outlets in the past few months that migrant caravans to the U.S. are a preview of climate migrations meaning people driven from their homes due to global warming.	Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on climate change and the migrant caravan claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence climate change is also playing a part based on an interview with a farmer turned migrant whos crop failed.	The migrant caravan from Central America is a recent startling example Gore tweeted Monday.	False
People are suffering.	We are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	Caught on camera her stare sparked a thousand tweets and divided the public.	People are dying.	We are all Greta another resistance activist proclaimed sharing a photo of Thunberg scowling at Trump next to a photo of her meeting his predecessor Barack Obama.	True
Asked about the formation of the panel a National Security Council representative said the administration wants to ensure that decisions are fully informed and based on the most accurate and relevant information available.	This unaccountable working group appears set to deliberately cherry pick data and science with the sole purpose of pushing back against the widely accepted science around climate change he said at a hearing Tuesday thatfeatured government scientists testifying on the crisis.	The report is a comprehensive scientificallyrigorouslyanalysisand assessmentif the availableinformationprimarily from the U.S. government Freilich said.	And to think that you're going to be able to stave offpublic concerns and public demand for action by ... writing a denial report seems too late.	But the public relations war over how to address it is heating up as both sides navigate an issue expected to be a top issue in the 2020 election.	True
Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker contributed to this report from Washington.	HAZARD Ky.	Appearing at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Pruitt said The EPA and no federal agency should ever use its authority to say to you we are going to declare war on any sector of our economy.	President Donald Trump who appointed Pruitt and shares his skepticism of established climate science promised to kill the Clean Power Plan during the 2016 campaign as part of his broader pledge to revive the nations struggling coal mines.	For Pruitt getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma.	False
It requires 40 percent of state energy funding to go to the low income neighborhoods and communities of color most vulnerable to sea level rise and extreme weather and includes wage standards backed by labor unions for all state funded green energy projects.	There needs to be some adjustments made in the perception of how important this bill is to bring it into the executive chamber ready for the governors signatureEnglebright said Friday.	As Nixon gains in the polls and lands magazine covers Cuomo is scrambling to act on long neglected progressive demands.	That support cuts across demographics including 75 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 67 percent of people 65 years and older 73 percent of urban dwellers and 67 percent of rural New Yorkers and 74 percent of black people and 69 percent of whites.	The support breaks down similarly across the state with 73 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 61 percent of people 65 and older 71 percent of urbanites and 60 percent of rural people and 75 percent of black people and 64 percent of whites.	False
The better we protect our environment the better we can protect people.	By producing energy in the United States and limiting pollution were making the world safer.	Fifty one senators decided to put the best interests of taxpayers and the environment first and narrowly saved a rule to limit methane emissions.	But with a problem as big as climate change and as multifaceted as national security every step is worthwhile.	Making sure companies capture and sell the gas drilled on public lands ensures that the American taxpayers get the biggest return possible for leasing that land.	False
The protection of our water they figure shouldnt interfere with business.	This is a central threat to Americas future a major powerful political party rejecting science itself.	The cruelty and the idiocy of Donald Trumps presidency does not chiefly lie in his tweets or even his words.	They worship at the altar of nihilistic capitalism.	Trump has surrounded himself with people who care far more about the sanctity of fossil fuel profits than the safety of the American people.	False
Im working alongside my addministration to formulate a plan of action to swiftly dayliver aids and support to all the suffered comuntitties.	All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer.	Right!	Be the solution not the problem.	But I thought you believed so strongly in the environment.	False
2 concern after health care for Iowa caucusgoers in a Monmouth University survey from April.	Youth Climate Strike and 18 year old activist Jamie Margolin.	On a scale of 200 the Sunrise Movement the group that pushed the Green New Deal into the mainstream scored Warren at 168 and Sanders at 183.	On Wednesday she published an op ed outlining how shed target fossil fuel companies and reverse President Donald Trumps assault on environmental regulations during her first 100 days in the White House.	Greenpeace graded her an A and Sanders an A.	False
We have just 59 days to do our part to save our children from an endless cycle of crop killing droughts one year and rivers spilling their banks the next Inslee tweeted in January.	Inslee who is a 2020 presidential contender is styling himself as a leader for Democrats agitating for action on global warming.	Washington Democratic Gov.	Now Inslees back with an even more urgent message Adopt policies to tackle global warming or there is not survival.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	False
It undermines America's standing in the world and threatens to damage humanity's ability to solve the climate crisis in time.	We can and we must do both.	In order to unleash the power of the American economy our government must encourage production of American energy.	President Trump acted in America's best interest moving away from a flawed agreement that placed too heavy a burden on American jobs and opening the door to a new agreement that reaches the right balance.	This damages our nation's reputation as an international leader and puts future generations at risk to the threat of climate change.	False
Wright said there are many reasons waste is sometimes transported out of state.	It also caused the community to become infested with flies the complaint states.	In an earlier trash saga a barge laden with 3186 tons 2890 metric tons of non toxic paper and commercial garbage from Long Island and New York City wandered the ocean for months in 1987 seeking a place to dump it after plans by a private developer to turn it into methane gas in North Carolina fell through.	Alabamas inexpensive land and permissive zoning laws and a federal ban on dumping New Yorkers excrement in the ocean got the poop train chugging experts say.	Rural parts of Alabama are prime targets for landfills that accept out of state waste it argued meaning that Alabama was becoming a dumping ground for the rest of the nation.	False
On Sunday a spokesman for UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said he was appealing for additional resources from the international community to fund the response in the immediate medium and longer term.	We managed to send one flight with World Food Programme WFP supplies of rice and biscuits and some non food items Mr Abreu told news agency AFP.	Ocha says humanitarian needs have sky rocketed and the humanitarian response will need to rapidly scale up.	It is unclear if these deaths are recorded in the government total.	But attempts to reach those areas had not been entirely successful.	False
Some environmental organizations including the Nature Conservancy and the World Resources Institute are endorsing the plan.	He added that protection from liability would be important to Exxon which is under investigation for its past statements and actions on climate change.	The plans Republican authors include James A. Baker III and George P. Shultz both former secretaries of state and Henry M. Paulson Jr. a former secretary of the Treasury.	Individual supporters include the theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking Steven Chu a secretary of energy under President Barack Obama Michael R. Bloomberg the former New York mayor and the Indian industrialist Ratan Tata.	Along with the oil companies the plans corporate backers include Johnson Johnson Unilever PepsiCo and Procter Gamble.	False
Because that wealth allows us to take care of people.	Im an environmentalist.	On windmills.	At the same time its very important to me... we have to maintain this incredible place that weve all built Trump continued.	A lot of people dont understand that Trump said citing his experience filing environmental impact statements for real estate developments.	True
They submitted their concerns to theU.S.	However not every ecologically minded group is on board with Icebreaker the name of the project.	Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of Energy.	Lake Erie Energy Development Corporation the company behind the project also argues it would be a step forward for environmentally friendly energy production.	Wind farms across the globe kill thousands of birds a year that inadvertently fly into their turbines.	False
Philip Gregory one of the lead attorneys representing the children filing suit explained that the injunction request is meant to address the urgency of limiting climate change by reducing emissions from fossil fuels immediately.	As Gregory and the other attorneys for the children wrote in their injunction request This injunction is urgently needed because despite long standing knowledge of the resulting destruction to our Nation and the profound harm to these young Plaintiffs Defendants ongoing development of the fossil fuel based energy system is actively harming Plaintiffs and jeopardizing Plaintiffs ability to obtain the full remedy in their case.	With the case currently tied up in appeals the plaintiffs wanted to make sure the current state of affairs with respect to climate change doesnt get worse as the wheels of justice slowly turn.	Indeed Plaintiffs by their present motion are essentially making a bid in this Court for a substitute mini trial or trial lite which is premature until the pure issues of law now being briefed in this interlocutory appeal are appropriately resolved as a threshold matter wrote attorneys for the US Department of Justice.	In so doing the government has deprived the plaintiffs the youngest is 11 years old the right to a safe and stable climate system.	False
Such research requires a faithful reproduction of events and predictions of the future constrained by subjective choices within computer models.	These plans should be built on sound science not speculation overselling or exaggeration.	This research also takes timewhich means other scientists must examine the evidence with patience and judiciousness not usually seen on Twitter or cable news.	Advocacy groups package these talking points for easy consumption by journalists who eagerly repeat them.	Anyone trying to score political points after a natural disaster should take a deep breath and review the science first.	False
California Gov.	Hes likely referring to the diverting of water from the Sacramento San Joaquin River Delta into the ocean to protect the delta smelt an endangered fish.	Republicans and farmers have complained about management of the smelt population for years because precious water was being pumped out to sea instead of going towards other uses including agriculture.	Trump said at a rally in Fresno that year.	Jerry Brown a Democrat blamed man made global warming for the states rash of intense fires in the last couple of years however wildfire experts and conservatives tend to blame poor land management policies coupled with the expansion of human development into fire prone areas.	True
That has all kind of consequences both locally for this region for the animals and the people who live here as well as globally Max Holmes a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska told the New York Times.	Minus 3 is not that far from zero Dr. Romanovsky told the New York Times.	Holmes led a team of scientists in July to take permafrost cores sediment and water samples from the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge to better understand how thawing permafrost affects the landscape and how much and what mix of greenhouse gases are released.	As global temperatures rise scientists are trying to determine the likely speed and scale of the melting of Alaskas permafrost.	In order to know how much is lost you have to know how much is there Sue Natali a Woods Hole scientist and permafrost expert told the New York Times.	False
Thats the main thing about getting to the emmissions goal is just how aggressively we have to act in every different sector of our society.	Theyve said the same thing before Sen. Marco Rubio R Fla. said adding that his responsibility was to balance those interests raised in that report with his states broader economic and security interests.	We should be doing everything we can said Natalie Mahowald a climate scientist at Cornell University and lead author of the reports first chapter.	Thats the problem with the U.N. that they come up with these policy ideas that are just La La Land.	a climate change skeptic said of the actions urged by the report.	False
That is something we need to determine as quickly as possible.	It is something we will have to watch closely Bingham said.	We had not expected to find anything like that number.	The discovery is particularly important because the activity of these volcanoes could have crucial implications for the rest of the planet.	And the activity of this range could have worrying consequences they have warned.	False
We're running out of time to act.	We can embrace the energy of activism to move our partys goals forward.	They asked me to join them and I did Ocasio Cortez tweeted of her involvement with members of the Sunrise Movement and Justice Democrats who visited several elected officials offices in the building.	The progressive Democratic newcomer from New York joined more than 100 environmental youth activists on Tuesday for a sit in inside House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosis Capitol Hill office to encourage a deal to transition to a 100 percent renewable energy based economy to fight climate change.	Fossil fuel billionaires have a grip on America's democracy.	True
In fact the challenge before us is a case study in market failures to suggest that market based policies on their own will solve this existential challenge is nave at best.	Taken together they provide a comprehensive platform for clean energy and climate policy that can serve as a golden standard and a beacon of hope for the rest of the planet until common sense returns to the White House.	Most importantly policies that directly reduce pollution are our most effective tools to improve public health and quality of life in the most disproportionately impacted communities.	It sends a price signal to industries to reduce their carbon pollution while generating billions of dollars in revenue for investments in clean transportation and direct pollution reduction.	We need all of these tools to be able to reduce pollution drive technological innovation create jobs and expand economic growth all while keeping costs stable for consumers and businesses.	False
For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	And the guy that I saw the other day if I may take a moment was congressman Thomas Massey from Kentucky and he is an electrical engineer.	So congressman or the congressmans staff heres the hockey stick graph that you guys love to go off thats been debunked.	This would be dT dt where capital T is temperature and and the lower case is time or congressmans staff if out there thats the problem.	Its the speed.	False
I want to go beyond those issues said Del.	You have in my opinion a Commonwealth that wants to see that.	Having gender equality public safety LGBTQ equality gun safety those are the things we should be able to accomplish regardless of whos in charge Only taking care of those things is such a cheap cop out for what a party should stand for.	Virginia Del.	You have members who have been in our caucus and who will be coming into our caucus that want to see that happen she added.	False
Why the push abroad?	It provides Chinese firms and investors with opportunities to make money off coal projects at a time when thats less politically popular in China.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Coal workers also travel to these projects keeping them from losing their jobs.	The Engro mine for example has 350 Chinese workers and the return on equity for Chinese investors is about 30 percent according to the Salt Lake Tribune.	False
Thanks to scientific knowledge we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods such as the Paris Accord which sadly some have abandoned he said.	In his Spanish language address to the U.N. agency Francis denounced negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet and the greed for profit.	The yoke of poverty caused by the often tragic movement of migrants can be removed by prevention consisting of development projects that create jobs and offer the capacity to respond to climactic and environmental changes he said.	Ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the prerequisites for dealing with world food security Francis also said.	Agriculture ministers and diplomats from the Group of Seven G7 world power nations attended the gathering which marked FAOs World Food Day.	True
Im concerned because it affects their health.	Not just our children.	Schneider an associate professor in the geography department said fire is commonly used by people to clear land for cultivation and the actual area burned this year must be measured for an accurate comparison with damage in past years.	The kids are affected the most.	They have problems breathing.	True
This is all just another case of this administration wanting to make good on their political rhetoric and in this case not even wanting to make good for our own automakersMcCarthy now the director of Harvard Universitys Center for Health and the Global Environmenttold HuffPost.	We want one set of standards nationally along with additional flexibility to help us provide more affordable options for our customers.	The agency also said it planned to reconsider how climate change factored in to regulation noting that the social cost of carbon and energy security valuation ... should also be updated to be consistent with the literature and empirical evidence.	In January 2017 the Obama administration attempted to lock the regulation in place by issuing a positive assessment of the costs and feasibility of the regulations.	But the policy set an April 2018 deadline to review the standards and tweak them if they proved too expensive or impossible to meet.	False
The lawsuitfollows over three years of investigationfirst orchestrated by former Attorney General Eric Schneiderman who resigned in April over abuse allegations from former romantic partners.	The intrigue comes amid growing bad blood between the two sides.	They also accuse energy companies of trying to downplay the harms their products allegedly cause.	The probe took many twists and turns and seemed to come to a halt shortly after his resignation.RELATEDSEC Investigators Decide Not To Punish Exxon For Alleged Climate Heresy Exxon engaged in a longstanding fraudulent scheme to deceive investors analysts and underwriters concerning the companys management of the risks posed to its business by climate change regulationthe lawsuit notes.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	False
What is being done here is an atrocity against us.	We need the forest and our children need the forest.	We feel the climate changing and the world needs the forest.	For us this is destruction.	These devastating images show an indigenous family surveying the ruins of their homeland in the Amazon rainforest.	False
And while many residents are enthusiastic about the project there are still some that need convincing.	The team's first task was to convince as many local businesses as possible to drop pointless plastics such as straws and bottled water.	Children are powerful drivers of change because they go home and talk to their parents about it says Zana Kontamanoli.	Paros was chosen because its changes in population give it complexity and because she found out when she visited the island that people were already working on the issue.	You are really exposed to the reality of the situation when you live by the sea says campaigner Zana Kontamanoli.	True
Campbell said the evidence shows a fundamental shift in the Earths plants and that global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race.	The researchers study in Nature provided no proof oftheclaim global warming is caused by humans or that global warming will cause the severe problemsCampbell said it will in the quotes provided by the UC Merced article.	In other words more carbon dioxide which is being produced by humans at record levels has improved plant growth which in turn improves food production for humans and animals.	He says despite the researchers findings which clearly show global warming helps plantsand thus also helping humans and animalsglobal warming has many negative effects too such as causing climate change which will increase flooding of coastal cities extreme weather and ocean acidification.	However dont too excited Campbell warns.	False
The people believe them.	The Illinois based group which hasties to the fossil fuel billionaires who run Koch Industries boasted in July that the White House reached out for help identifying scientists for these debates.	The people believed them he wrote in a December 2015 blog post.	The names included on the list suggest that the Heartland Institute wants the debate to go directly after the scientific and legal underpinnings of the EPAs regulations on climate change.	Calls for the red team blue team exercise began in April one month before the date marked on the top of the documents.On April 20 the day before the March for Science protest in Washington D.C. New York University physicist Steve Koonin published an op ed in The Wall Street Journal calling for a red team blue team exercise to put the consensus to the test and improve public understanding through an open adversarial process.	True
Well this is the end result of that decision.	They were afraid that it would end up hurting whichever candidate goes into the general election next year.	Ten Democratic presidential hopefuls will appear in New York at back to back town halls on Wednesday September 4 taking audience questions about their climate plans as scientists sound the alarm about global warming.	Along with the candidates the network also announced the CNN journalists and the approximate appearance times for the presidential hopefuls during the seven hour live event.	Here are the details of this marathon non debate town hall Id rather fall into a 40000 foot deep man made hole in Russia than watch Democrats tell us how were all going to die in 12 years if we dont get rid of fossil fuels.	False
Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants alleged California activities to plaintiffs harm.	Whatever sales or events occurred in California werecausally insignificantin the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming.	They argue that Exxon and others should pony up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change.	Trial lawyers with Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled climate lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings called a contingency fee.RELATED Trial Lawyers Handling Cities Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions Hagens Bermanstood to earn billions of dollarsin contingency fees depending on the total winnings from a favorable judgement against oil companies.	From all that appears in the amended complaints howeverthis worldwide chain of events Exxons oil production does not depend on a particular defendants contacts with California he said.	True
In a Gallup poll last month just 1 percent of Americans including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats chose environmentpollution as the countrys most important problem from a list of dozens of issues.	4 priority and voters of color in that age range ranked it No.	3.	Polling Data for Progress released in September pegged the number slightly higher at 55 percent of eligible U.S. voters but found that those opposed decreased from 23 percent to 18 percent when the guaranteed jobs are green.	And so weve been here before and we have a blueprint of doing this before.	False
Conservation must remain a way of life.	Brown also said the need for conservation continued.	California officials have credited residents for doing their part to conserve water by taking shorter showers and ripping out grass lawns to install landscaping that requires minimal irrigation among other measures.	Year after year California continues to use more water than is made available by nature Kate Poole director of the groups water and wildlife project said in a statement.	The 2015 order led environmentalists to complain that the state which leads the nation in production of fruits and vegetables did too little to force farmers to conserve water.	False
Wed like to see something that is more data driven.	The report is not without its controversies.	Its not data driven.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	He says the NCAs second volume relies on the RCP8.5 one of the four possible pathways in the trajectory.	False
Theres simply not enough money to know what to prioritize.	Ben Thomas a former tank inspector and state regulator in Alaska who now consults with private operators on meeting the inspection rules said cutting the program would hurt businesses that have come to appreciate the heavy stick of enforcement for bad players and the general community outreach.	We know they are on the front lines to protect our land and groundwater from petroleum leaks such as those from gas stations and other underground storage tank facilities and we expect this partnership will continue to be a hallmark of the program.	But state officials environmental activists and public health advocates warn that the size of the cut carries great risk considering groundwater is the source of drinking water for nearly half of all Americans.	Site owners are ultimately liable for cleanup costs but a taxpayer funded trust fund is in place when sites must be addressed quickly are abandoned or when owners dont have the resources.	False
We have many priorities at the agency.	We must focus on those he told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on The Situation Room in February rattling off other needs such as improving air quality.	That's going to really make it impossible for the agency to continue its mission which is to protect public health and the environment.	President Trump has an America First policy he said.	America must look forward to and innovate for 21st century solutions.	True
growth in the nation in 2018 according to the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis.	Among other measures he wants to expand background checks and restrict some semiautomatic weapons.	He has been outspoken in favor of gun control and after the shooting in Parkland Fla. last year he confronted President Trump on live television denouncing Mr. Trumps suggestion to arm schoolteachers.	While Mr. Inslee has made clear that he intends to focus overwhelmingly on climate change he is on the record supporting liberal policies in many other areas.	He then proposed a different series of actions including running the states electric utilities fully on renewable power by 2045 requiring buildings to be more energy efficient promoting electric vehicles and cutting down on hydrofluorocarbons which are used in air conditioners.	False
We need to better anticipate support requirements similar to those of people fleeing other unviable situations.	Asrecently as last year anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu pop.	This new category of refugee needs to find a place in international agreements.	It records possibly Tuvalus greatest moment of glory on the international stage when it seized the opportunity at the 2009 Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen to grandstand about its terrible plight.	If only theyd done their study a bit earlier they could have saved a lot of alarmists a lot of worry.	True
All we have to do is give up our common sense.	When pie in the sky thinking meets end of times conspiracy theories we get something like this.	A scenario where were all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed.	Tidal generators beach whales with such frequency that if it were a Republican backed project environmental groups would be having conniptionfits and endless marches.	Freshman Democrat Alexandria Ocasio Cortez has some lofty goals for herself and for America with the benefits definitelymore geared to benefit her.	True
The content is provided for information purposes only.	One of the many ways people can contribute to that movement is by telling others about steps they have personally taken then when you say 'this is really urgent' your words are backed by the truth of your actions.	The bespectacled 40 year old with long blond hair does paid consulting for the United States Institute of Peace and is an adjunct professor at two Washington universities but performs the bulk of his work in the volunteer sector.	Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research no part may be reproduced without the written permission.	Some people like Tarek Maassarani take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes.	True
I would love to understand this logic.	Right?	This is honesty sp about how Democrats would micromanage private life.	Because you know like money is just paper and how hard can it be to make some more of the stuff right?	Somehow government run healthcare family sustainable wages paid leave and affordable housing are also required for a clean economy the writer wrote.	False
We have been held hostage by these environmental terrorist groups that have not allowed public access that have refused to allow the harvest of timber Zinke told Breitbart Monday.	This has to do with active forest management Zinke said.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	I've heard the climate change argument back and forth.	Earlier this week Zinke blamed environmental terrorist groups for California's destructive wildfires in an interview with Breitbart Radio.	False
It added it was taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment.	The unit was stabilized.	No impact to the community has been reported the company said.	At this time while we do not believe there is any imminent danger the potential for a chemical reaction leading to a fire andor explosion within the site confines is real Arkema said in a statement.	In this case it caused product to spill to the ground.	False
Like this story?	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	wondered one user.	Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audiences eyes at the climate change town hall literally as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half truths and excuses.	True
When you go through the list of health standards slated for Pruitts abolition you wonder whether there are any limits to his cold blooded corporatized agenda.	Pruitt is extinguishing life saving and disease preventing health standards that were vetted in open procedures that were open to input by the commercial interested affected which usually leads to diluting the final regulation and which have solid scientific basis to protect vulnerable populations.	Lets be clear about what is at issue here.	His tenure thus far at the EPA is the stuff of corporate wish lists meeting privately with the worst industrial perpetrators of silent violence charitably described as pollution and huddling with industry lobbyists and corporate lawyers who are eager for Pruitt to dismantle his own agency the federal manager of environmental violence to air water soil and food.	Mr. Pruitt makes himself vulnerable with all the ex parte contacts and corporate advisors to many serious offenses including a violation of the procedures of the Federal Advisory Committee Act b conflict of interest rules c violation of both criminal and civil laws by the overreaching industry lobbyists who constitute Pruitts tight cadre of clenched jawed political appointees.	False
The Union of Concerned Scientists the activist group that has spearheaded this push for legal action has compared energy companies behavior with that of tobacco companies decades ago.	Some form of energy is necessary to do just about anything including to meet essential needs such as heating or cooling a home which in some places is a genuine safety issue.	First unlike smoking energy is a basic good.	We are expected to believe that energy companies covered up the damage done by fossil fuels and yet publicly available industry funded research is cited as evidence that the companies were aware of the harms they were causing.	As David Bookbinder at the Niskanen Center notes while all of the complaints are grounded in the energy companies alleged accountability for rising sea levels they fall into two essential categories.	True
RELATEDThousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests We have the right to live our dreams and hopes the letter continues.	350.org an international environmental group is helping bolster the strike with its own promotional video.	Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world.	Now we will make our voices heard.	The group strongly references the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes 2018 report which claims the world only has a few year to dramatically reduce carbon emissions or else face dire environmental consequences.	False
However Morris argued that the department had not given areasoned explanation for how it came to this conclusion.	Morris had ruled in August that the State Department had to reach a conclusion on the environmental impacts of the pipeline but determined Thursday that the departments analysis had left out information he considered to be crucial.He also accused the State Department of usingoutdated information about potential environmental impacts instead ofthe best scientific and commercial data available.	These omissions require a remand with instructions to the Department to satisfy its obligations under NEPA Morris wrote.	In a 54 page decision Judge Brian Morris of the U.S. District Court in Montana granted an injunction to the Indigenous Environmental Network and Northern Plains Resource Council against the U.S. State Department the TransCanada Keystone Pipeline and the TransCanada Corporation.	In November 2015 former President Barack Obamas administration blocked the pipelines construction citing potential environmental impact.	False
Climate Change.'	Antonio Guterres UN Secretary General said this period of time is'a matter of life and death' for countries around the world.	'Our greatest threat in thousands of years.	It found that 2018 is on course to be the 4th warmest year on record and we're the 'last generation to be able to do something about it'.	'There's absolutely no doubt that the Trump effect has created a sense of uncertainty in terms of the political commitment to achieve anything close to a 2C target.'	False
H. Sterling Burnett Ph.D. hburnett is a research fellow on energy and the environment at The Heartland Institute a nonpartisan nonprofit research center headquartered in Arlington Heights Illinois.	CPP and the other climate regulations imposed by the Obama administration were justified based on the EPAs determination carbon dioxide poses a threat to human health and the environment a concept known as the endangerment finding.	Relying on unsubstantiated projections produced by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change the EPA determined carbon dioxide emissions from cars and industry threaten human welfare.	CPP was the centerpiece of the Obama administrations effort to move the United States away from the use of fossil fuels beginning with coal to fight climate change.	In truth this presents a problem for Trump.	False
SteveGorehamis a speaker on the environment business and public policy and author of thebookOutside the Green Box Rethinking Sustainable Development.	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	While advocates of climate common sense are pleased with the recent court decisions the acceptance that humans are causing dangerous climate change by the oil and gas defendants is very disappointing.	A simple example is the question of snow extent.	Like most efforts to fight climate change climate lawsuits are a massive waste of taxpayer money.	True
The United States was willing to note the report and express appreciation to the scientists who developed it but not to welcome it as that would denote endorsement of the report the State Department said in a statement.	Countries were asked to welcome the report put out by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change which says governments around the world must take rapid far reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society to avoid disastrous levels of global warming.	American strength flows from American energy and as it turns out we have a lot of American energy.	Zinke's position involves the dual and sometimes competing roles of overseeing leases to develop resources such as oil natural gas and minerals and preserving federal lands for wildlife and human recreational uses.	The administration may be trying to lower the bar significantly for future new sources of pollution that the EPA tries to regulate said Mary Anne Hitt senior director of the Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign.	False
We asked why Trump was saying that the states water is being redirecting into the ocean and where that idea originated.	Kate Poole the senior director of the Natural Resources Defense Councils NRDC water division said its hard to know where to begin in responding to Trumps tweets because theyre fundamentally wrong on many levels.	Wed even settle for a coherent policy to tackle it rather than make it worse Poole told Yahoo News.	Jerry Brown in a series of tweets.	I cannot speak to that.	False
'For sounding the alarm about humanity's predatory relationship with the only home we have for bringing to a fragmented world a voice that transcends backgrounds and borders for showing us all what it might look like when a new generation leads Greta Thunberg is TIME's 2019 Person of the Year' the media franchise said Wednesday on its website.	during the UN General Assembly this year.	The 16 year old who was named Time magazine's 'Person of The Year' updated her Twitter bio on Thursday to read 'A teenager working on her anger management problem.	The teen girl with Asperger's syndrome is the face of the youth climate movement drawing large crowds with her appearances at protests and conferences since last year.	'Greta embodies the moral authority of the youth activist movement demanding that we act immediately to solve the climate crisis.	False
Gov.	She says typically the agency would communicate with a state privately and work out differences to encourage a cooperative rather than adversarial relationship.	California is expected to receive about 8 billion in fiscal years 2019 and 2020.	Gavin Newsom has been critical of President Trump's environmental record and challenged the administration in court.	The Trump administration has been picking fights with California over environmental regulations recently.	True
We want to eliminate confusion Freire said by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how were protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law.	As EPA renews its commitment to human health and clean air land and water our website needs to reflect the views of the leadership of the agency said JP Freire an associate administrator for public affairs.	At the marquee climate protest the Peoples Climate March in Washington tens of thousands made their way down Pennsylvania Avenue in sweltering heat on their way to encircle the White House.	Previously the website housed data on greenhouse gas emissions from large polluters and reports on the effects of climate change and its impact on human health.	In an op ed piece for the Guardian published on Saturday Sanders made an economic case for a focus on industries meant to ameliorate the effects of climate change rather than those which contribute to it.	True
Proponents of the theory humans are primarily responsible for rising global temperatures long claimed wildlife are harmed significantly by global warming and that unless mankind stops producing significant amounts of carbon dioxide emissions the worlds animals will not be able to thrive.	This is the conclusion of researchers in the periodical Polar Biology the press release said.	According to a press release touting the studys new findings warmer conditions have produced a larger number of life sustaining melt ponds in Arctic waters.	this affords ample proof that new sources of warmth have been opened and give us leave to hope that the Arctic Seas may at this time be more accessible than they have been for centuries past and that discoveries may now be made in them not only interesting to the advancement of science but also to the future intercourse of mankind and the commerce of distant nations.	Melt ponds provide more light and heat for the ice and the underlying water but now it turns out that they may also have a more direct and potentially important influence on life in the Arctic waters stated the press release.	False
It's an adventure.	We need to be resilient and adapt.	For the tourists it's amazing it's something to see.	But for the people who live here it's a real problem Litschauer said cradling her white Chihuahua Pablo.	The damage it's causing to monuments and the people is worrying she said wondering if climate change was to blame.	True
Literally the future of the world depends on us.	Ill tell you what I havent seen anything better that addresses the singular crisis we face a crisis that could at its worst lead to extinction he said.	Now as the former US congressman vies to be the Democratic candidate to run against Donald Trump in the 2020 race for the White House he faces much closer scrutiny on the subject.	Given Texass critical importance to the environmental and economic future of the country a Texas presidential candidate can deliver a powerful green narrative said Luke Metzger executive director of Environment Texas an advocacy group.	Environmental advocates and experts wait to see if as ORourke pivots from an election in a conservative led oil state to a national primary race heavily influenced by left leaning Democratic candidates he will have more latitude and desire to put progressive green policies at the heart of his strategy.	False
Greta Thunberg saw her power in us and we in turn see our power in her March for Our Lives co founder Emma Gonzlez wrote of Thunberg for TIME adding that Greta is inspiring steadfast students and shaming apathetic adults.	Climate change is our reality and youth activists like Greta are doing everything within their power to work against it and demand a change Gonzlez wrote.	TIME listed Greta Thunberg a 16 year old climate change activist on its list of the 100 most influential people of 2019.	Erosion of fertile topsoil deforestation of the rainforest toxic air pollution loss of insects and wildlife acidification of our oceans these are all disastrous trends said Thunberg barely able to keep her tears back.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	False
The effect is to take away an agency's powers to deal with real world problems.	The Cuyahoga River Love Canal when there was no environmental protection.	It's a move that sounds like an attitude of deference and separation of power Buzbee said.	The major questions doctrine he said is critical to limiting the ability of agencies to make major policy decisions that belong to Congress at least unless Congress clearly delegates that authority.	But the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh has them especially worried.	False
As part of the wide ranging conversation about climate change he explainedhow he squares hissupport for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities.	And while historically nuclear power companies have built their plantsand dumped the wastein poor communities of color Booker believes it doesnt have to be that way He points to agreements struck between local and national governments in Canada and Europe as a model for a community process to deal with the waste.	And to say its not to say youre going to get rid of nuclear really you are handicapping and undermining our ability to get to the ambitious goals we must have.	Even if it means that we have to phase off it in the future the real pressing challenge right now the threat to our health and our safety and our well being is climate change and that needs to be our driving focus.	The candidate sat down with Climate Desk in Anacostia Washington D.C. for anexclusive interview a day before the climate strikes taking place around the world.	False
Humanity must restore a safe level of greenhouse gas concentrations and global average temperatures well below todays levels and back to pre industrial levels as quickly as possible it states.	The Council argues in favor of finding ways to humanely stabilize population as a means of mitigating the effects of global warming.	The United States of America has disproportionately contributed to the climate and ecological crises and to preventing a transition away from fossil fuels and Americans thus bear an extraordinary responsibility to solve the crises the text reads.	Not content with prescribing a drastic cutback in global emissions however the Council members forge onward to make a more insidious proposal population control.	The City of Berkeley calls on the United States of America to initiate a just national mobilization emergency effort to reverse global warming which ends national greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible and immediately initiates an effort to safely draw down carbon from the atmosphere the text boldly proposes.	False
And sometimes I wonder whether any amount of evidence could convince you to act.	This includes the story of Noahs Ark.Noahs story holds powerful lessons for us today.	Words do not suffice in a tragedy like this.	After all we have a surplus of evidence.	The catastrophe unfolding in Houston is yet another stark warning.People are losing their homes and their jobs.	True
Solomon proposed that while feigning interest in global warming is politically expedient most people are unconvinced that it poses a real problemunlike the real pollution that is killing millions.	We are here today because our climate is under threat Mr. Vella said.	The European Commissioner insisted that the key to addressing the problem of climate change and avoiding a point of no return is to be found in political will.	In a major report last week the prestigious UK journal The Lancet suggested that pollution of air and water rather than carbon induced global warming is the real crisis facing the world one being overlooked by environmental activists.	In the Popes written message to the meeting conveyed by the Vaticans Secretary of State Cardinal Pietro Parolin the pontiff expressed his concern for water conservation around the world as well as his fervent desire that the threat posed by climate change to our brothers and sisters in the most vulnerable countries will find prompt and effective responses.	False
We view science as a way to deepen our appreciation and wonder at the majesty of Gods creation including the complex beautiful and life sustaining planet earth.	The simple moral truth is that United States is by far the worlds largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it they added.	We cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment said the church leaders the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co Cathedral.	inan op edpublished by the Missoulian Thursday for failing to understand climate changes role in a widespread fish kill in Yellowstone National Park last summer.	Daines who earned a bachelors degree in chemical engineering before entering politics received a paltry 3 percent lifetime score from the League of Conservation Voters which ranks lawmakers by how they vote on environmental legislation.	True
I wanted to come and help.	I was fighting back against corporate greed and this constant disregard for public health.	That movement work is critical to moving the needle.	Tlaib views her workwith groups like the Sunrise Movement as a natural extension of the campaigns she and her fellow progressive built.	Be hopeful.	False
Like this story?	Its a pretty big concern if you have an unknown quantity of material containing uranium leaching into the groundwaterlocal anti nuclear activist Tom Clements told The State.	Last year a hose malfunction sprayed a worker with a toxic solution sending him fleeing to an emergency decontamination shower.	The Westinghouse fuel factory turns uranium into several types of fuel for nuclear reactors.	According to the commission the hole goes six feet down into the soil below the Westinghouse factorys concrete floor.	False
It was started and continues to be led by communities in both red and blue states who are tired of having their air and water poisoned when there are cleaner and cheaper alternatives available cities and states that are determined to clean their air and reduce their costs and businesses seeking to lower their energy bills while also doing their part for the climate.	Our movement is growing and our momentum is unstoppable.	Together we have worked with local grassroots activists and partners in the nations most vulnerable communities to secure the retirement of 259 dirty power plants and the promise of a brighter future putting at the center of our work a transition that leaves no one behind and that demands good paying family sustaining jobs for workers who depended on the fossil fuel economy Brune said.	All of this and were just getting started.	Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club boasted that his organization and other activists are responsible for the closure of scores of dirty power plants.	False
... Its not data driven White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said at a news briefing Tuesday.	Its based on modeling.	Wed like to see something that is more data driven.	Its not based on facts.	One of the problems that a lot of people like myself we have very high levels of intelligence but were not necessarily such believers said Trump speaking to the Posts Josh Dawsey and Philip Rucker.	False
They can sense that we are making an impact.	None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president None What my journey into homelessness taught me	None 'Five Eyes' in the dark Will Trump and Barr destroy trust in U.S. intelligence?	Now what does he want?	They obviously dont want that.	False
Here are four checks on claims from the interview.	Claim 4 When I first met you you were running for president the Department of Energy was one of the federal agencies that you thought was maybe extraneous said Cannon.	He later clarified that the third agency was the DOE telling reporters Everybody tomorrow will understand the Energy Department is one of those that needs to be done away with.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Energy Secretary Rick Perry attended a March 29 event about the state of U.S. energy where he discussed his thoughts on energy policy with Carl Cannon the Washington bureau chief of RealClearPolitics.	False
The Associated Press contributed to this report.	But I don't know that it's man made.	I will say this I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars.	On Monday the president said that he had heard of the recent report and that hell have to take a look at it.	I don't want to lose millions and millions of jobs.	True
Once dubbedthe celebrities choice in offset providers NativeEnergy provides third party verification of how its offsets are used and boasts a high score as a benefit corporation a sort of LEED certification of for profit companies that pay employees decent wages and provide measurable value to society.	In a first Washington Gov.	Though founded and run by a former utility lawyer the company as its name suggests transferred a majority stake in its ownership to a consortium of Native American tribes in 2005.	Sanders has also drawn heat recently for his uncertain stance on reparations for the descendants of slaves and for quietly hiring a journalist who frequently attacked his 2020 opponents on Twitter as an adviser.	In 2007 former Iowa Gov.	False
The conclusion?	Back in 2011 Britains Environment Agency conducted a life cycle assessment of various bag options looking at every step of the production process.	And it found that these are only sustainable options if you use them very frequently.	That same British analysis also looked into reusable options like heavier more durable plastic bags or cotton bags.	And on that score paper bags fare worse.	True
Also left unanswered was how Pruitt came to rent a property tied to a lobbyist with business interests involving his agency.	The unusual arrangement has attracted attention in Washington where Pruitt has been under increasing scrutiny for this frequent taxpayer funded travel which has included first class airline tickets.	Ill only pay for nights I use it but need it held vacant all other nights wrote Shaub who has become a frequent critic of what he sees as ethical lapses in the Trump administration.	Walter Shaub who ran the U.S. Office of Government Ethics until last year rated EPAs legal justification of Pruitts living arrangements as Total Baloney.	WASHINGTON AP An agency ethics official at the Environmental Protection Agency says Administrator Scott Pruitts lease of a Capitol Hill condo tied to a prominent fossil fuels lobbyist didnt violate federal ethics rules.	False
they all ask.	We are hungry Were tired and weak Our babies are sick the plants and animals complain.	It also includes a Message for Adults Acid rain is a problem that affects us all The message to spread however is that we can all make a difference and help reduce the presence of acid rain.	What is doing this to us?	asks Frannie Frog.	True
Human waste has overwhelmed toilets at Joshua Tree and Point Reyes and has proliferated along trails rivers and streams potentially affecting water quality and certainly the visitor experience.	Now left unattended and gathering trash and human waste the Trump administration has let them reflect us at our worst.	This story was originally published bytheGuardian.	While the majority of the public will be respectful there will always be a few who take advantage of the opportunity to do lasting damage.	Visitors to parks are reporting dogs off leash drone activity off highway vehicles and the public walking on or near fragile resources such as the hot pools and thermal features of Yellowstone.	False
They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes most of them bad for growing corn.	So what will replace corn on Iowa's fertile land?	Many fruit trees including peaches have a peculiar requirement.	The wild trees represent an irreplaceable storehouse of coffee's original genetic diversity.	Nothing says Iowa quite like fields of corn.	True
We're not looking to have our light bills cheaper we're looking to stay here said Deborah Pruitt 57 who works at the island's museum where printouts of news reports about the island are displayed on a wall.	I believe man plays a part in it but not to the extent that others have been talking about that's what me and Donald Trump were talking about Eskridge said.	Tangier residents are happy with the attention but believe their problem is simpler.	Often they say people object to the idea that humans could possibly change the climate even if they wanted to.	At a dinner attended by island residents Aug. 2 the activists from RepublicEn headed by former Republican Congressman Bob Inglis laid out the stakes The sea level is rising and some scientists estimate that within decades the island already suffering severe erosion will need to be abandoned.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	Now those officials are preparing to discard sound scientific methods to pretend that their actions will be less deadly than they really are.	One result of the new scientifically unsound method would be to magically decrease the 1400 premature deaths that Trump's changes to environmental rules were previously projected to cause.	He admitted to the Times that the new method would allow the Trump administration to claim its other changes would cause fewer deaths.	The person in charge of air quality at the EPA William Wehrum was a lawyer and lobbyist for the fossil fuel industry before joining the EPA.	True
But some industry groups want a replacement to give utilities regulatory certainty and avoid possible lawsuits by environmental groups.	But it also lays the groundwork for new presumably weaker regulations by asking for the public and industry to offer ideas for a replacement.	This fudge isnt perfect and it still doesnt solve the problem of the EPAs Obama era Endangerment Finding on carbon dioxide which ludicrously treats a harmless life enhancing trace gas as an existential threat.	This was part ofa wider war on the Green Blob which has also involved withdrawing from the UNs Paris climate accord.	It certainly will draw the process out she said.	False
University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. recentlypublished a paperon the problems with the UNs use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord.	Yet BECCS plays a very real role in todays climate policy arena Pielke wrote by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and 90s.	Brown is right in one sense.	California Democratic Gov.	California does have miles to go to meet Browns executive order because it relies on magical thinking and science fiction according to experts.	True
I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get that result.	Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward.	The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California.	Tim Donnellyis a former California State Assemblyman and Author currently on a book tour for his new bookPatriot Not Politician Win or Go Homeless.	Governor Jerry Brown has expressed an interest in barring the sale of vehicles powered by internal combustion engines Mary Nichols chairman of theCalifornia Air Resources Board said in an interview Friday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.The earliest such a ban is at least a decade away she said.	False
When do we want it?	Climate Justice.	We are here to hold cowardice sic politicians accountable who have caused this damage by turning their heads in fear.	The youths held signs that read Greed Kills Help My Home is on Fire and 527 Years of Indigenous Resistance and chanted in between speeches phrases such as What do we want?	The speaker listed the groups demands which will be presented at the U.N. summit A just and livable world where fossil fuels are left out of every decision around the world 100 percent renewable energy around the globe and holding polluters accountable for causing the climate crisis.	False
Our society needs to turn dramatically and immediately towards the shared goals of environmental justice broad based prosperity and health.	Hes calculating.	Other analysts shared similar sentiments.	Ocasio Cortezs office provided NPR the GND resolution and its accompanying FAQ document that laid out its goals namely to move America to 100 clean and renewable energy within 10 years.	It also stated that the GND would provide benefits for people unwilling to work.	True
The problem is the age old tragedy of the commons.	We should have higher taxes on the things that science says are probably bad for us than those that are probably good for us.	Start low and increase it until the desired outcome is achieved.	The common good being consumed is atmospheric and oceanic carbon capacity which currently has a price of zero.	Musks solar energy company in New York state has reportedly gained 1 billion in near term and short term investment from Democratic politicians said the newspaper.	False
We can rebuild communities in rural America that have been devastated.	We can create millions of good paying jobs.	But I think they need more time to state the case.	I have a plan for a green industrial policy that takes advantage of the fact that we do what we do best and that is innovate and create.	Montana Gov.	False
Naomi Ages the climate director of Greenpeace USA was similarly perturbed.	Though not surprising this is extremely troubling.	In the late 90s Koch Industries invested in an aerospace company Pompeo founded with fellow West Point alumni.	Tiernan Sittenfeld senior vice president of government affairs for the League of Conservation Voters said in a statement that Pompeos nomination is profoundly disturbing but not unexpected.	Climate change is one of the most critical threats facing our nation and world and the secretary of state has a huge responsibility to make sure it is addressed by the global community she said.	False
Its findings aligned with those of the broader scientific community.	President Trump Donald John TrumpSunday shows preview Shutdown negotiations continue after White House immigration proposal Rove warns Senate GOP Don't put only focus on base Ann Coulter blasts Trump shutdown compromise We voted for Trump and got Jeb!	The study mandated to be released every four years under the National Climate Assessment from the multiagency Global Change Research Program was conducted by hundreds of government and external scientists.	Trump dismissedthe report saying he did not believe its findings and disputing that climate change is man made.	Amazing how big this system is.	True
But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	In June 2017 villagers in Tamil Nadu's parched Ramanathapuram district were protesting against a solar power plant they alleged that more than 200000 litres of scarce water was being extracted illegally from bore wells to clean the 250000 solar modules daily.	Utility scale solar farms massive projects that supply power to the gird such as the one in Ramanathapuram need to be re evaluated especially if they are to run in areas where water is scarce.	The overall direction if not the magnitude and rate of change laid out in the report is not just possible but essential both financially and environmentally.	There are other challenges too.	True
Jean Su energy director with the Center for Biological Diversitys Climate Law Institute said America is the number one historical contributor to the climate emergency wreaking havoc in burning California the flooded Southeast and the rest of the world.	Senator Tom Carper the top Democrat on the Senate environment panel said Once again President Trump is abandoning our global allies for the sake of misplaced political gain.	Local action by itself is not likely to be enough.	Nate Hultman director of the University of Marylands center for global sustainability and lead author of this years Americas Pledge report pointed to new laws in New Mexico Nevada Washington Maine New York Washington DC and Puerto Rico for 100 clean energy targets.	Carl Pope vice chair of the group Americas Pledge said its members who are vowing to keep fighting the climate emergency produce more than half the countrys heat trapping emissions and represent about 70 of the US gross domestic product.	False
Reliably hard to predict Kennedy was more interested in nuanced and scientific arguments than some of the more conservative judges with a stricter anti regulation outlook David Doniger of the Natural Resources Defense Council told BuzzFeed News.	There are plenty of 63 or 72 cases where environmentally sound decisions in our view were made.	Miller suggested that the Endangered Species Act would be the first environmental issue to take the stage on a Kennedy less court A dispute over the endangered dusky gopher frog Weyerhaeuser v. US Fish and Wildlife Service FWS is now on the courts docket in the fall.	Those lawsuits are challenging the Environmental Protection Agencys protection of some streams and waterways under rules narrowly written to conform to a 414 Rapanos v. United States decision made in 2006 where the 1 was Kennedy.	Theres a been a lot of focus on whether that case will be reversed by a new majority Joseph Goffman executive director of Harvards Environmental Law Program told BuzzFeed News.	False
In its research SPARK Neuro measured physiological data such as brain activity and palm sweat to quantify peoples emotional reactions to stimuli.	Egoism and self interest have turned creation a place of encounter and sharing into an arena of competition and conflict he said.	Let us make an effort to change and to adopt more simple and respectful lifestyles!	The expression climate crisis for instance got a 60 percent greater emotional response from listeners than climate change the study found.	Last April a team of advertising consultants from SPARK Neuro released the results of astudysuggesting that worn out expressions such as climate change do not frighten people enough whereas stronger vocabulary such as climate crisis and environmental collapse produced a significantly stronger emotional response.	True
Global Change Research Program.	Here are some key points.	It is affecting all of us no matter where we live.	But there are other less obvious risks.	It's well over 1000 pages and touches on a daunting range of topics.	False
A geophysics professor from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology says that hes run the numbers on humanity facing a mass extinction event and the numbers are not good.	One is a critical rate of change corresponding to the rate at which CO2 is added to the oceanatmosphere system.	They also cite previous doomsday scenarios offered by alarmist scientists that didnt come to fruition including acid rain and global cooling.	Rothman goes on to explain that the tipping point of unknown territory wont take that long he predicts it will come as soon as 2100 or sooner.	Those who point to discrepancies in the global warming narrative have also noted that many of the solutions offered by climate change advocates do very little to actually stop carbon emissions and turn back the clock.	True
In 2015 Greenpeace activists duped Happer into agreeing to write a report on the benefits of carbon dioxide for a fictional oil company.	We cant know whether Happer genuinely believes the nonsense hes spouting or is just being paid well enough to sound like he does.	For all their bluster and junk science Republican decision makers have a clear sense for their own self interest and just how much is at stake for them and the rest of the 1.	As Naomi Klein argues even the rights fervent conspiracy theorists tend to understand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are for business as usual which has distributed its profits among elites of both parties.	As the New York Times reported in its article on the White Houses new climate plans both Happer and John Bolton who tapped him for the administration have received generous support from the Mercers the rightwing family credited with both spreading climate denial and helping fuel the opioid epidemic.	False
The report is seen as the main scientific guide for government policymakers on how to implement the 2015 Paris Agreement.	The report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it said Amjad Abdulla the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	The U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC met last week in Incheon South Korea to finalize the report prepared at the request of governments in 2015 when a global pact to tackle climate change was agreed.	But the report said the efficacy of measures such as planting forests bioenergy use or capturing and storing CO2 were unproven at a large scale and carried some risks.	The summary said renewable energy would need to supply 70 to 85 percent of electricity by 2050 to stay within a 1.5C limit compared with about 25 percent now.	False
Thosematters need to be resolved before the Legislative session ends at the end of the week.	We think there's a better way to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and so were holding out Knopp said.	Kate Brown also a Democratauthorized the state police to round up the 12 Republicans who walked out of the Statehousein protest of the bill Thursday and bring them back to the Senate floor for a vote but to no avail.	I've done as much as I can and I'll continue to tryCourtney said.	All we're saying is it shouldn't cost thousands of manufacturing jobs raise the gas tax by 20 cents a gallon to start out with and raise natural gas prices for people who heat their home by almost 50 percent.	True
Now a new report sheds some more light into why President Trump rejected the globalist scam and its incrediblespecifically he wanted to stick it to holier than thou elites in America specifically leftists who flyaround in private jets drive SUVs and live in massive mansions yet lecture Americans about their environmental impact.	Share your thoughts below!	Throughout much of the 2016 campaign then candidate Donald Trump railed against corporate and global elitists who want to dictate their liberal agenda onto the American public with no understanding of how such liberal policies would harm our economy and the Americanpeople.	This is religion for the political left and our supporters are constantly being asked to change their behavior a top White House official told Axios who added that snarky comments from European leaders also encouraged Trump to withdraw.	The White House official said Trump resented the corporate critics who ride in fossil fuel guzzling planes and SUVs then act holier than thou according to Axios.	False
Mother Nature has been teasing mankind with this for a long time saying 'this is here'.	It is a high risk project but also one which may have a very high reward at the end said Orheim.	For Wolfgang Foerg the chief executive of Swiss company Water Vision which has teamed up with Sloane the project has huge potential in the face of ever more frequent drought.	The project is crazy no question said Olav Orheim a Norwegian glaciologist with four decades of experience who is working on a similar project for Saudi Arabia.	Thousands break off every year.	False
But water conservation can only go so far.	Browns latest plan Making Water Conservation a California Way of Life allows the state to oversee conservation goals it sets in urban water management agencies as well as to permanently prohibit activities it deems wasteful of the water supply.	Certainly Californians and everyone else ought to find ways to responsibly use natural resources such as water.	It also creates more stringent standards for establishing these water use goals.	California ought to begin expanding its water supply rather than incessantly regulate how citizens use water especially now that the governor doesnt retain the broad powers spelled out under the drought state of emergency Browns flood state of emergency doesnt give him the same power to regulate water use.	True
While no decision has been made experts tracking it say that view is gaining traction.	That reflects the views of powerful conservative political advocacy groups such as Americans for Prosperity which is funded by the influential libertarian brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch.	Its primary policy for meeting that target would be the Clean Power Plan a set of Environmental Protection Agency regulations designed to shutter hundreds of heavily polluting coal fired power plants the nations chief source of greenhouse emissions.	Mr. Cramer an early supporter of Donald J. Trump advised Mr. Trump on energy issues during his presidential campaign.	That view is also backed by economists at the Heritage Foundation the conservative think tank that has supplied the Trump administration with many of its policy proposals.	True
We have a monumental task in front of us says co author Natalie Mahowald from Cornell University but it is not impossible.	This is our chance to decide what that road will look like.	Herzog calls most of these extraction ideas more of a hope than a reality.	But research shows that the amount of land needed for that would be formidable.	Their new report lays out the difficulty in stark detail it would require a 40 50 percent reduction in emissions by 2030 global emissions are currently rising.	False
Corporate America is doing its part.	There is nothing more vital for environmental protection than our freedom to protect the environment as individuals without Big Government and its endless red tape.	They referred to the irreversible agreement as a vital instrument for our planet societies and economies.	When individuals are free to choose when and how to adjust their daily lives to protect the environment without government compulsion requiring it the environment reaps the benefits.	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	False
The resolution proposes providing all people of the United States with i high quality health care ii affordable safe and adequate housing iii economic security and iv access to clean water clean air healthy and affordable food and nature.	Workers are often paid far less than the value they create.	It calls for the creation of millions of new high wage jobs to help wipe out poverty.	The resolution co sponsored by several Democrats running for President in 2020 has been heavily criticized by those on the right.	Earlier this week Ivanka Trump a senior White House adviser and the President's daughter was asked about the Green New Deal proposal and what she would say to people who are enticed by the proposal's job guarantee.	False
But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?	Other celebrities like Julia Roberts are also eco hypocrites.	In 2011 she co wrote a USA Today op ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change.	Celebrities often claim to be concerned about the environment usually without changing their lavish lifestyles or pollution.	More than 45 celebrities took part in the fundraiser which brought in more than 44 million.	False
The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Methane makes up 10 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for global warming.	Some scientists have looked into reducing flatulence from ruminant animals.	False
Education Establish universal pre K education.	Social issues Abortion should remain legal after 20 weeks.	Work with businesses.	Reconstitute U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE.	Provide two free years of higher education.	True
All of this is to be pursued through jointly held symposia seminars workshops study tours collaborative research and development projects exchanges and training programs and other forms of cooperation that strengthen the bonds between UNEP and the U.S.	As the Trump White House continues its cleanup of the mess foreign and domestic left behind by the Obama administration it should toss out a little noticed document that entangles the U.S. in some of the worst schemes ever cooked up by U.N. bureaucrats and their cronies in the global environmental movement.	The ties that bound the UN and the Obama administration should not be allowed to constrain the choices of everyday Americans.	For the common goals and objectives shared by the U.N. body and the Obama administration are specifically crafted to hamstring American fossil fuel energy development promote an assortment of politically fashionable but otherwise uncompetitive green technologies and products and perpetuate the deplorable living conditions in the worlds poorest countries.	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	False
Scientists say governments businesses and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming fishing forestry mining or infrastructure development.	Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have.	Academic volunteers looked through some 10000 scientific publications for what is said to be the most extensive biodiversity survey since 2005.	The report conducted by 550 experts from around the world said reduced biodiversity could affect people's quality of life.	Fortunately the evidence also shows that we know how to protect and partially restore our vital natural assets.	True
This technology is worth billions of dollars a year.	Petermann said another red flag is wildfires.	Those studies have not been done and that is one of the major points in the comments.	She points to the massive wildlife that hit Portugal last month that left 60 people dead and one that happened in Chile in January.	They USDA are really taking their time with it becuase they know there is overwhelming public opposition to the plan Petermann told RT.	False
Voxs David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points.	Washington Gov.	However it remains to be seen if there is an audience with a seven hour attention span for a single issue.	Here is the format The audience will be composed of selected Democrats independents and stakeholders.	It would behoove the networks to focus their discussion on getting at these subtle differences among the candidates like what executive orders they would sign how high climate change ranks as a priority and what measures would a candidate pursue to ensure a just transition to clean energy.	True
They're a matter of life or death.	A fifth generation coal miner from Virginia has spoken out against President Donald Trump's rhetoric surrounding the coal mining industry saying the President is making false promises that are only going to line the pockets of coal executives.	We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue he said.	In a New York Times op ed video published Tuesday Nick Mullins a ninth generation Appalachian from Virginia said that if Trump wants to help the Appalachian mining communities that support him lowering emission standards is not the way to do it.	At this year's State of the Union address Trump talked about ending the war on beautiful clean coal.	False
The purpose is that if states make determinations that are somewhat less than the rigor of what might be expected EPA wont second guess it Stan Meiburg a former acting deputy EPA administrator who spent 39 years at the agency told HuffPost by phone.	This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters its nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science gut our clean air protections and put polluter profits ahead of our health Sara Jordan a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters said in a statement.	That directive is likely to prompt watchdog groups to sue.	The orderinstructs the EPA to consider what countries that dont border the United States are doing to reduce pollution allowing the agency to compare U.S. regulations to those in developing nations like China and India.	In what could be the most controversial part the order requires the EPAs science advisers to consider the downside of cleaner air rulessomething for which industry groups have clamored for years.	False
In a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity it is necessary to recall the values of custody of creation the preferential option for the poor and the peace that is built in everyday life including with attention to the care of the common home she said.	In this new wave of ethical investing the total figure of divestiture for the church groups involved has not been disclosed but is reportedly four times higher than a previous church record.	The moral clarity of these 40 institutions is a source of deep joy said Toms Insua the director of the Movement.	I hope we will see more leaders like these 40 Catholic institutions commit because while this decision makes smart financial sense acting collectively to deliver a better future for everybody is also our moral imperative she said.	Their leadership is launching a path that the World Bank and its financial organs should follow.	False
People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	'The eyes of future generations are on you and if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you.	'Yet you have come to us young people for hope.	The Swedish teenager named this week's UN Climate Action Summit and the Chile conference in December as her main reasons for crossing the Atlantic.	Its donors include heiress Aileen Getty American philanthropist Trevor Neilson and filmmaker Rory Kennedy a member of the political Kennedy clan.	True
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The new rule is really a dereliction of duty moral ethical but also legal Andres Restrepo a lawyer with the Sierra Club's Environmental Law Program told the Post.	That's the exact opposite of what Trump regularly claims.	Air pollution leads to the premature death of 100000 Americans every year the AP reports and Trumps own EPA shows not only worse air pollution but a significant increase in the two worst categories very unhealthy and hazardous conditions.	His lies dont make it cleaner and his policies are on track to make it worse.	False
This is critically important for two main reasons.	But public health researchers are aware of the limits of the data available and use matching statistical controls and other standard techniques to try to get a clearer picture of whats going on.	Its true of course that you dont want to do a completely naive associational study and then leap to big policy conclusions from it.	In other words you cant get a group of volunteers together and then randomly assign half of them to have the air they breathe be deliberately poisoned just to see how bad the poison is.	Tony Cox an industry consultant Trump tapped to lead the EPAs Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee argues that the EPAs agencys current standards for evaluating this question does not feature enough causal rigor.	False
Its inevitable that we will lose them all over the next few decades Farge said.	Rising temperatures Montana is warming nearly twice as quickly as the global average and changes in precipitation patterns are eroding away glaciers in the state and elsewhere along the Rocky mountains.	Andrew Fountain a geologist at Portland State added While the shrinkage in Montana is more severe than some other places in the US it is in line with trends that have been happening on a global scale.	wikimedia commons Its now inevitable that the contiguous United States will lose all of its glaciers within a matter of decades according to scientists who have revealed the precipitous shrinkage of dozens of glaciers in Montana.	Last year scientists in Colorado found that the Arikaree glacier which is likely more than 1000 years old has been thinning by around a metre 3.2ft a year over the past decade and will vanish within 25 years.	False
Jay Inslee and many Democrats and environmentalists who want to fight man made global warming.	Supporters say the ballot measure would protect public health but opponents say its a red herring meant as a de facto ban on fracking.	There is a wave of energy related ballot initiatives for voters to weigh in on this election year.	Florida To Decide On Offshore Drilling And Vaping?	Bill Ritter.	False
And as I pointed out last month in this feature story hes also overseen a drastic slowdown in the day to day work of the agency.	But one of EPAs most important jobs is to enforce civil penalties for companies that breach limits for hazardous chemicals like sulfur dioxide and hydrochloric acid.	Enforcement matters especially to the people who live and work next to plants that continue to release more pollution than the law allows.	In his first year as head of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt has made a huge mark shrinking his agency and repealing as many Obama era environmental regulations as possible.	And one new measure of Pruitts foot dragging thats just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately.	True
This story was originally published byHuffPostand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	The Western States Petroleum Association raised over 31 milliona record for Washington ballot initiativesfor its No campaign spending nearly 30 million of it by the start of this month.	The campaign dispensed 10.8 million in the last two weeks of October alone.	Yet fears over rising gas prices proved more convincing to Evergreen State voters.	Scientists say such policies are necessary to make the kinds of emissions cuts required to avert the worst impacts of climate change.	True
Gov.	Pete Wilson.	He is trying to undo the Clean Power Plan fuel economy standards for carsoffshore drilling restrictions and solar tax credits.	More recently Brown helped found the United States Climate Alliance a group of state and local governments pledging to abide by the Paris climate agreement even after the federal government withdraws.	He fired scientists from government advisory positions.	False
Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.'	Greta said 'The biggest danger is not inaction the real danger is when politicians and CEOs are making it look like real action is happening when in fact almost nothing is being done apart from clever accounting and creative PR.'	The businessman denounced the choice as a 'marketing gimmick' and said the prize should have honored 'Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms' his father was also a finalist.	An image of her stare at Donald Trump as he entered the UN quickly became a social media meme.	Time editor in chief Edward Felsenthal told the Today show 'She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement.'	True
The research was published in the journal Nature Human Behaviour.	People are unhappy and that means they may make irrational decisions.	It suggests that people were four points unhappier than they would have been without polluted levels.	Researchers at MIT and the University of Beijing discovered a direct link between the amount of particulates in the air and happiness.	But air pollution also has a broader impact on people's social lives and behavior according Siqi Zheng the Samuel Tak Lee Associate Professor in MIT's Department of Urban Studies Pollution also has an emotional cost said Dr Zheng.	False
Its release hinges on the Trump administrations approval and one scientist who worked on the report told the Times that he and others feared the president would withhold it.	The report delivers a strikingly different message than the one being pushed by Trump and his Cabinet members who continue to downplay the urgency of the threat as they work toward energy dominance.	The question should be you know just how much and what are the policy changes that we need to make to affect that?	Is man having an effect on it?	In a post to Twitter Gavin Schmidt a climate scientist and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies said that nothing in the report is surprising for people working in the field but that it may be shocking to those that think climate change is just a future problem.	False
'Stopping this study is a ploy to stop science in its tracks and keep the public in the dark about health risks as a favor to the mining industry pure and simple' said Democratic Representative Ral Grijalva of Arizona ranking member of the House Committee on Natural Resources in a statement.	The study had been launched at the request of two West Virginia agencies the state's Department of Environmental Protection and Bureau for Public Health.	'It's infuriating that Trump would halt this study on the health effects of mountaintop removal coal mining research that people in Appalachia have been demanding for years' Bill Price Senior Appalachia Organizing Representative for Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign said in a statement.	In a letter written on Friday the Interior Department announced the shutdown of the study which was started in 2016 under former President Barack Obama while the department undergoes an agency wide budgetary review.	The Trump administration has halted a study looking at the health risks of mountaintop removal coal mining.	True
Here's why it matters We now have to monitor this glacier carefully.	He said one of the challenges they faced during the project was gathering all the available data since there have been many radar surveys but done by different institutions in different countries.	They also had some surprises on the way.	And because of the size of the area they were trying to map the process was very time consuming.	Morlighem and his team used a new technology called BedMachine to make this discovery.	False
Susan Dio chairman and president of BP America supported federal regulation of methane in an opinion piece in the Houston Chronicle earlier this year calling it the the best way to help further reduce and ultimately eliminate methane emissions industrywide.	The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions a major factor in global warming.	We simply cannot protect our children and grandchildren from climate catastrophe if EPA lets this industry off scot free said David Doniger a climate and clean energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council.	The plan will undergo a period of public comment before being finalized and environmental groups pledged court action to try to block repeal of the limits.	Some large energy companies including BP favor federal regulation of methane saying the regulatory certainty is preferable to a patchwork of varying rules by states and legal challenges by environmentalists.	True
It's that natural infrastructure that we're trying to avoid being lost.	We believe in the dignity of life and part of that is having a place to live he said.	Personally I buy recycled toilet paper because we can and it's good for the Earth said Andrew Musgrave director of Catholic Social Action at the Archdiocese of Cincinnati and one of the 150 signatories to the letter sent to PG.	a PG spokeswoman asked CBS MoneyWatch who also pointed to Charmin as a superior product.	It's just unacceptable that a company like PG is making toilet paper a product that is used for seconds and flushed from virgin pulp said Shelley Vinyard boreal corporate campaign manager for the Natural Resources Defense Council and one of several dozen protesters at PG's annual shareholders meeting in Cincinnati Ohio on Tuesday.	False
Here are three key facts to know about the person who will soon be overseeing the Environmental Protection Agency.	Inhofe was among Pruitts biggest fans although the barrage of scandals ultimately began to dim his enthusiasm.	As a New York Times story lays out Murray was the architect of a so called environmental regulations wish list which detailed a list of policies aimed at reinvigorating the coal industry like curbing restrictions on greenhouse gases and slashing staff at the EPA.	A number of Pruitt policies are thought to be shoddily constructed and have faced significant legal challenges.	Wheeler and Murray were photographed at a March 2017 meeting with Energy Secretary Rick Perry where many of these policies were purportedly discussed.	False
Two judges concluded the administration record thus makes clear that industry groups had ample opportunity to comment on all four issues on which EPA granted reconsideration and indeed that in several instances the agency incorporated those comments directly into the final rule.	Former President Barack Obama had put in place a rule in 2016 that was connected to a regulatory strategy which sought to reduce methane emissions.	The courts ruling is yet another reminder now in the context of environmental protection that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the presidents desire to order immediate change Richard Lazarus environmental law professor at Harvard Law School said in an email as reported by the Post.	At the time Pruitt was the Attorney General of Oklahoma and he and others sued the EPA to overturn the legislation.	This includes a two year delay on a certain regulations aimed at minimizing chemical accidents.	True
This is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights Olson said in court papers.	In the lawsuit 21 activists ages 11 to 22 said federal officials violated their rights to due process under the U.S. Constitution by failing to adequately address carbon pollution such as emissions from the burning of fossil fuels.	This suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions Trump administration Solicitor General Noel Francisco said in court papers.	Circuit Court of Appeals.	Aiken said in an Oct. 15 ruling that although the case raised questions about the role of the judiciary delving into a matter of policy those concerns were not enough to warrant a dismissal of the entire case.	False
But while the rule was applauded by environmentalists for improving drinking water protections and aiding wildlife that relies on wetlands it was attacked by some farmers and golf course operators who claimed it hindered their ability to manage their land.	Signing his order the president said thousands of jobs were at risk because the EPA decided that navigable waters can mean nearly every puddle or every ditch on a farmers land or anyplace else that they decide.	Green groups however said the move pandered to fossil fuel and farming interests and was part of an agenda to weaken clean water protections.	The Obama administration widened this definition to include the drinking water of about 117 million Americans.	The rule was meant to end years of confusion over which waterways were federally protected from pollution with the clean water rule simply designating navigable waters for safeguards.	True
Hovenweep is in all of our stories and to threaten the integrity of these structures jeopardizes everything weve carried forward as resilient people.	The Bureau of Land Management would benefit from more community outreach and long term planning to lease parcels on sensitive landscapes said Erika Pollard an associate director with the National Parks Conservation Association.	The agency says in planning documents that companies should take steps to protect the environmental and cultural landscape of the area including limiting the use of artificial light at drilling sites and protecting useable groundwater aquifers from drilling.	They argue these lands are abandoned but theyre not we use them in our prayers we visit them.	You wouldnt like it if I went into your home your land and started digging.	False
The position paper called for protecting Gods creation and embracing the governments help in doing so.	Roy Moore hes part of that culture Michael Hansen executive director of the Birmingham based environmental group Gasp and a former candidate in the Democratic primary for Senate told HuffPost.	But it appears that Obama and his liberal administration are not really interested in what the Constitution or the scientific community have to say when it interferes with their radical agenda.	This is a demographic Moore who attends the Gallant First Baptist Church near his home seems likely to tap.	That year the National Association of Evangelicals proposed adopting a new platform called For the Health of a Nation.	True
What are we looking for?	Laney Wall who lost her home in the Sonoma County community of Fountaingrove asked why homeowners had to go through the expense trouble and wait of the clean up at all.	I just have more questions now Danny Thom another Fountaingrove resident said after the meeting.	Officials pointed to the public health concerns ranging from safety of residents in the burned neighborhoods to concerns for hazardous waste entering waterways and the air.	I'd like to know what's hazardous.	True
Take Trumps nominee to head the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt.	And while theres an element of truth to that it misses the big picture.	More nuanced pundits and politicians acknowledge that the science is real but argue that even if it is accurate the consequences might not be so bad or that action would simply be too costly.	Which makes it the crucial context for Trumps move Thursday.	This is the consensus that the vast majority of the Republican Party from donors to politicians to intellectuals to voters has arrived at.	False
The mechanism Robert Francis is referring to is a democracy.	How does a man who under normal circumstances would be working as a barista in the local coffee shop dole out knowledge of experience on World War II to a Democrat party who eagerly laps it up?	But he doesnt care because in his mind its real.	How else to explain last months comments that environmental activists are just like those who were on the beaches in Normandy.	Its exactly what we did to face the Nazi threat the existential threat to Western democracies in 1941 he said.	True
Still to be determined whether it was persuasive or consequential.	He came here to learn.	Any decision on climate change would ultimately be based on what's best for the United States Cohn said.	And up for debate the peril of climate change and the urgency of the U.S. commitment to the Paris accord to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.	Leaders of the Roman Catholic Church broached the topic when Trump visited the Vatican.	False
Its intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that youre talking about.	We dont go into policy but we provide the information for people who want to go further with that.	There are about four different independent data sets we looked at to come to this conclusion Blunden told Yahoo News.	Were scientists and were providing objective information Jessica Blunden a climate scientist at NOAAs National Climatic Data Center in Asheville N.C. told Yahoo News.	It basically diagnoses what is happening in the climate system Arndt said on a conference call.	False
People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices.	Ali points out an equity score is potentially significant because it helps put up a wall of protections around those communitiesaddingI think its just now starting to gather steam.	The proposal also requires an extra level of scrutiny for White House executive actions on low income communities and people of color and feedback from those affected communities.	Harris is not the only presidential candidate who has come out with a plan focused on environmental justice.Jay Inslee released the fifth plank of his climate change package on Monday that refocuses the White House Council of Environmental Quality as a new clearinghouse for environmental justice and has its own scoring mechanism for impacts.	Mustafa Ali the former head of the EPA environmental justice office noted that the idea of scoring environmental justice impacts is something advocates have pushed for years.	False
The official echoed Can we stay on topic please?	The official insisted his own views were irrelevant while a White House staff member interjected Can we stay on topic please?	One of the administration officials responded If you look at the Europeans if you look at other major economies or allies or partners they have a strong interest in finding common ground with the United States and again we dont want to get out ahead of ourselves here on what may be discussed or not.	I think its a little bit more nuanced than stay in or not.	But they pointed to Americas existing record.	True
Theres been incredible work going into that bill Courtney said.	Democratic Gov.	Kate Brown nonetheless last week sent state police to find the lawmakers and instituted a 500 per day fine per person for each day they werent present at a legislative session.	On Tuesday some of the Republicans in hiding were not sure what to make of Courtneys statement about the votes.	Its a long thorough piece of legislation that mandates carbon emission reductions across the states economy while accounting for job quality standards and economic equity.	True
On the question of burning in the Amazon which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money what is the intention?	This is the war we are facing.	It is an international crisis.	Maybe I am not affirming it these NGOs are carrying out some criminal actions to draw attention against me against the government of Brazil.	These countries that send money here they dont send it out of charity he said.They send it with the aim of interfering with our sovereignty.	True
Like the rollback of the Production Safety Systems Rule this effort is all about helping industry.	The language also points to broader reform efforts that occurred after the Gulf spill including thedivision of the Minerals Management Service the scandal plagued agency faced with the conflicting tasks of issuing leases and policing offshore drilling operations into three new agencies.	She said it references the Well Control Rule and the Production Safety Systems Rule two regulations that were under development back in early 2015 and are now on Trumps chopping block.	The offshore drilling announcement drew immediate outrage from both Democrats and Republicans who expressed concern about possible environmental damage and negative effects on tourism.	Elizabeth Johnson Klein the Interior Departments associate deputy secretary under Obama said the language first appeared in a draft of the current program released in January 2015.	False
It's no use pointing the finger at what's wrong without bringing alternatives to people he said.	He alleges that European interest in the welfare of the Amazon is a thin guise for attempts to gain a foothold in the region.	He wrote Do not humiliate the guy ha ha.	Asked by international journalists about environmental protection of the Amazon at a press briefing on 6 July he said Brazil is like a virgin that every pervert from the outside lusts for.	Greenpeace France described the G7's response to the crisis as inadequate given the urgency and magnitude of this environmental disaster.	True
A military leader for example said that part of its mission involved creating a positive perception of the country.	Yet despite the new found sense of urgency some are skeptical that the involvement of the military would really be able to do much.	It was clear though that deploying the military was also in part a public relations ploy.	Protecting the rain forest is our duty he said.	And while the fires have been burning for weeks the international outcry grew this week as photographs spread on social media.	False
a greener planet and enhanced crop yields.	Detecting a clear anthropogenic forcing signal amidst the noise of unforced natural variability may therefore be difficult.	Greenhouse Effect Not the Main Driver of Climate Together with these 400 new papers that makes 900 science papers in the last two years casting doubt on global warming.	Here courtesy of Kenneth Richard who has waded through them all are some examples of what they say.	I can.	False
The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products.	The lawsuit said that companies also violated the states Environmental Rights Act by polluting and destroying natural resources in Rhode Island.	The lawsuit contended that the companies sought to refute scientific findings regarding how greenhouse gas pollution was causing climate change and failed to prevent the harm that would result from consumers using fossil fuel products.	The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages as well as orders requiring the companies to pay abatement costs and to disgorge profits.	The lawsuit announced by Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Kilmartin was the first by a state seeking to hold oil companies responsible for costs associated with climate change and followed similar cases by several local governments nationally.	True
On a broader note Im confused.	But making sense isnt a tenant of the climate religion.	It was because the infrastructure is falling apart.	No not really.	In reality New York Citys subway system is a dumpster fire of mismanagement.	False
The E.P.A.	In this case the proposed methodology would assume there is little or no health benefit to making the air any cleaner than what the law requires.	had originally forecast that eliminating the Obama era rule the Clean Power Plan and replacing it with a new measure would have resulted in an additional 1400 premature deaths per year.	Want climate news in your inbox?	The new analytical model would significantly reduce that number and would most likely be used by the Trump administration to defend further rollbacks of air pollution rules if it is formally adopted.	False
Thats the environmentalinjustice and racism that were dealing with and my plan would equip Americans with the tools tofight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what isright now a tremendous injustice he said.	We need to invest in these communities and their ability to withstand storms and other natural disasters and their ability to have something as simple as clean water or breathe clean air he said.	Theyre often communities of color.	We know that this climate crisis is going to affect all Americans and all folks around the world but we also know that its going to hit some people particularly hard people that are the first people to get affected he said.	You all know that oftentimes the first folks that get flooded out are the poorest communities.	True
Coal ash in particular has long been a hot button issue in the utility industry.	Children are particularly at risk of learning disabilities birth defects asthma and cancer with 1.54 million living near such storage sites according to EPA data cited by the Sierra Club.	Rather the agency justified its move by noting it is expected to save the utility sector between 31 and 100 million annually.	This is the second biggest toxic pollution threat in our country and we need to clean it up not make things easier for polluters Earthjustice attorney Lisa Evans said in a statement.	They face contaminated drinking water toxic dust in the air and serious health threats just because the EPA is choosing to side with polluters over the public.	False
His concerns about potential waves of lawsuits are not unfounded.	We all know the benefits of energy but there are associated effects that we have to manage.	The lack of transparency and competition in the proxy advisory firm industry gives a small number of businesses significant influence over how corporations deal with environmental issues.	Some analyst groups worry activist shareholders use a largely unregulated industry to hoodwink U.S. companies into accepting proposals designed to tackle climate change that carry little long term benefits.RELATEDA Federal Judge Torches Two Lawsuits Trying To Blame Oil Companies For Climate Change So called proxy advisory firms craft disclosure requirements that force companies to show they are taking efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	False
Where this proposal could make a difference is in extending the lives of existing plants Duffy explained.	Its a no standard standard.	No harm no foul.	Even as nations are gathering in Poland this week to discuss how to implement the Paris climate agreement the US delegation plans to host a panel touting the virtues of fossil fuels the biggest sources of greenhouse gas emissions that drive climate change.	But with a 1.8 billion price tag it was the most expensive project in Arkansas history.	False
Yet IPCC report authorsframedthis as a problem of political will not economics and technology.	The New Deal.	And I think for younger people looking at this are more like how are we saying lets take it easy when 3000 Americans died last year how are we saying lets take it easy when the end person died from our cruel and unjust criminal justice system?	Thats the line activists and many politicians have taken up in the months since the IPCCs report.	And what preceded World War II?	False
Mr Castillo says money is key The first step to protecting the palms will be to allocate the proper amount to the environmental sector.	It's cents for a nation like Colombia.	Mr Bernal and his fellow scientists have for years been urging the government to buy up the land a move they estimate would cost 10m 7.7m but so far no action has been taken.	The wax palms are not only a tourist attraction but a key component in the region's ecosystem.	This tree is beloved by Colombian people everyone knows it is our national tree But nobody knows we are about to lose it.	True
As well as the fact that we as a country need a project and climate change is as good a one as well ever have.	We do better when we have a project he said of his proposal at the Seattle event.	This story was originally published byGristand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	Nevertheless some audience members were impressed by Buttigiegs vision of a green America.	The presidential candidate was running more than 45 minutes late and was just beginning to lose his audienceIm starting not to love Pete so much someone remarkedwhen he took the stage.	True
Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse D R.I. brought out some visual aids to question Wheeler further about his relationship with Murray including a poster sized printout of a photo leaked from a March 2017 meeting between Murray and Energy Secretary Rick Perry where the coal executive provided a detailed wish list of policies to the administration.	Those increases are expected to cause up to1400 premature deathsper year by 2030.	This is a fudged statistic however.	In October the United Nations released a landmark determination that the world has until 2030 to halve global emissions or face catastrophic climate change.	2 job Wheeler said he believed that man has an impact on the climate but whats not completely understood is what the impact is.	False
Option one involved hiring a PR firm to manufacture fake grassroots support for the facility and change the conversation.	If both options were to fail Beykpour suggested we dump this site and move on.	The newspaper claims Beykpour called the Chronicle and pleaded for the email not to be published and admitted that the company is still mulling suing its neighbors.	Think your friends would be interested?	However in an email accidentally sent to The Chronicle but intended for a higher up Chief Operating Officer Page Beykpour said that the plan is likely dead because the opposition has successfully convinced officials and the media against us.	True
For generations weve agreed that there are some places so special that they should be protected for visitors to enjoy away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life.	They make bicycle travel easier and more efficient and they provide an option for people who want to ride a bicycle but might not otherwise do so because of physical fitness age disability or convenience especially at high altitudes or in hilly or strenuous terrain saidNational Park ServiceDeputy Director P. Daniel Smith.	The change has drawn criticism by park advocates and some trail enthusiasts who say the administration did not do enough to seek public input on a policy that could damagethe park experience for many.	that provides propulsion assistance.	Park visitors posting in June before the policy was announced on the independent National Parks Traveler web siteexpressed mixed opinions on the expanded use of the electronic bikes.	True
In doing so they reveal their own selective adherence to scientific reason.	These facts received little coverage the media instead portraying a David and Goliath fight in which virtuous protesters took on a corrupt wealthy industry.	The environmental Left rushed to publicize the incident as an I told you so moment but activists gloating reveals either their cynical dishonesty or their ignorance about how modern pipelines work.	Such biased narratives have bedeviled the Dakota Access Pipeline from the beginning.	Jillian Kay Melchior is a fellow at the Independent Womens Forum.	False
We help hiring managers and executive search firms access the deep pipeline of qualified candidates of color help organizations build an equitable and inclusive culture internally and advocate for data transparency across the sector.	Its simple the more diverse the group discussing the problem is the more comprehensive sustainable and creative the solutions are.	The time has come for radical thinking for inclusive problem solving for crowd sourced innovation.	And it isnt as has been suggested because weve become so immune to data that numbers arent persuasive anymore.	For the past three years we have been working to build our database of the diversity of the top 40 NGOs across the movement.	False
It undermines Americas standing in the world and threatens to damage humanitys ability to solve the climate crisis in time.	We are in the middle of a clean energy revolution that no single person or group can stop.	Gore called the conversation he had with Trump at the time extremely interesting.	Civic leaders mayors governors CEOs investors and the majority of the business community will take up this challenge Gore said.	But make no mistake if President Trump wont lead the American people will.	False
Coopers order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles use more wind and solar energy and cut energy use at state owned buildings.	Cooper also asked agencies to promote climate adaptation and green energy use including wind and solar.	North Carolina Democratic Gov.	With historic storms lashing our state we must combat climate change make our state more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters.	RELATED Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado However not all scientists agreed.	True
She submitted the United Nations IPCC Special Report on Global Warming as her written testimony writing I am submitting this report as my testimony because I dont want you to listen to me I want you to listen to the scientists.	And I want you to unite behind the science.	There is nothing more powerful than our nations youth marching together demanding action be taken to protect our planet and their future Sen. Kamala Harris D CA wrote.	Its time our leaders listened.	The global strike set just days before September 23s U.N.	False
We face a direct existential threat.	I am appealing for leadership from politicians from businesses and scientists and from the public everywhere U.N. Secretary General Antnio Guterres said when he announced the summit.	Humans must limit global warming to about 1.5 degrees Celsius forecast from u n on global climate change above preindustrial temperatures in order to avoid the most catastrophic impacts of climate change.	Economic costs associated with such disasters are mounting.	It's a glimmer of hope in a sea of otherwise dire news.	False
All three are equally important to human wellbeing.	The body which is meeting this week aims to get all the worlds governments singing from the same sheet about the need to protect natural systems.	The warning will come from the awkwardly named IPBES the Intergovernmental Science Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services a panel studying the benefits of nature to humans.	About 3.2 billion people worldwide are suffering from degraded soils said IPBES chairman Prof Sir Bob Watson.	That's almost half of the world population.	False
It is also true however that for the peoples concerned a number of activities harmful to the environment at present ensure their survival.	In a word there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earths goods not only of present generations but also of those yet to come he said.	So it is important to create jobs and activities that generate income while protecting the environment and helping people to emerge from poverty he declared.	The pope went on to enumerate his vision of the problem while also recognizing that many poor people derive their livelihood from activities that threaten the environment.	We are faced not with two separate crises one environmental and the other social but rather with one complex crisis which is both social and environmental he said.	False
The article detailed aU.N.	Some of the more dire predictions came from Paul Ehrlich a biologist who famously urged population control to mitigate the impacts of humans on the environment.	But short term predictions weren't a laughing matter in the years following An Inconvenient Truth a documentary produced by former Vice President Al Gore.	That claim came from an international team of specialists cited by The New York Times in 1978.	CEI's report came just before the U.N.	False
Occasionally there needs to be an opportunity based on a unique circumstance to ensure that my family are safe it's generally as simple as that.	We have to connect people to where that little bit of extra money is actually going.	At the launch of Travalyst aimed at encouraging the tourism industry to become more sustainable the duke was asked about his travel behaviour.	In September's edition of Vogue edited by Meghan the prince spoke about environmental issues and his love for nature saying We are the one species on this planet that seems to think that this place belongs to us and only us.	The duke said that what is important is what we do to balance out negative effects.	False
Some of these animals also support thriving indigenous Alaska Native cultural and subsistence activities stated the complaint.	Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oils exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012 which led to a series of problems mistakes and violations of environmental laws.	The Trump administration provided the public only 21 days to review and comment on the exploration plan and only 10 days to comment on scoping for environmental assessment according to Monsell.	Over the past 30 days BOEM has been carefully evaluating the EP exploration plan in accordance with federal law and regulationsincluding site specific Environmental Assessmentand conclude with a Finding of No Significant Impact BEOM said in a statement.	The Center for Biological Diversity Greenpeace and REDOIL a coalition of Alaska native groups sued the Trump administration on May 3 citing the risk of offshore oil and gas exploration development to local communities and wildlife.	False
We wanted to make it so it could be an executable idea.	It was really getting at making it specific and workable.	The Democratic Party needs an answer for what their plan is to match the U.N.s recommendations in the IPCC report on climate said Waleed Shahid the communications director for Justice Democrats a left wing group that played a leading role in Ocasio Cortezs winning primary campaign.	It was more specificities Pocan said.	Young people and Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma.	False
A third principle a just transition for fossil fuel workers so that no one is left behind and so we show respect and gratitude for all the work they've done to power economy is the decades past.	It will make clear who is just using it as a buzzword and who is taking it seriously.	Oregon Democratic Sen. Jeff Merkley who's mulling a presidential bid said the issue should be an integral part of his party's agenda going forward.	The lack of specifics could present opportunities and liabilities for presidential candidates.	The core objectives are some things such as let's drive a fast transition from fossil fuel carbon transmission creating energy sources to renewable energy so that we save our planet.	False
More studies are needed.	The public no tests no international treaties that will stop it.	The problem is when people think a resource is free and so plentiful that it can never run out that you get situations where it does run out.	Clean water has a value.	But we were busy.	True
The NWS outpost in Omaha Nebraska demonstrated just how hot vehicles can get in heat waves by cooking American biscuits on a dash.	Kinks can form on train rails when the metal expands.	Experts told Fox 26 News more than 2100 trains have been derailed in the last 40 years because of these heat warps.	In 2012 a heat kink caused a 32 car long freight train to derail and fly off an overpass a similar derailment happened in 2017.	In cities that means millions of units including those on cars and buses and trains constantly pushing out heat into the atmosphere.	False
CNN gathered input from advocacy groups former government officials and academics.	This is a worldwide issue and solving it will take cooperation from countries like China and India.	5.	It's setting up coalitions of companies and lobbying Congress for new action on climate change.	8.	False
This might be a trip to discover how different animals blend into their surroundings to hide from predators how the brain coordinates different parts of the body or what lies deep under the sea.	However she's more into data than storytelling so the kids take a trip to a glacier allowing her to tell the story of you guessed it climate change which is met with a standing ovation by the audience.	Could it be that they know how easily debunked that number is?	has been asked to join her storyteller parents in telling a story of her own for a crowd.	Can't kids just learn without an anti scientific social agenda?	False
The other from 2007 discussed how to survive global warming.	But there was one glaring problem The 1970s cover was a hoax.	The hoax seems to have had its intended effect on Trump who according to Politico quickly got lathered up about the media's hypocrisy.	One published by Newsweek is a favorite of climate deniers.	Perhaps not surprisingly his staff seems to share these views.	False
Last summer the Guardian investigated Trumps coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels.	The estate was at high risk for flooding during heavy rains and storms with water already pooling on the premises in addition to nearby bridges and roads in Palm Beach.	So what would a 10 foot rise in sea levels mean for Florida?	What they found was Mar a Lago was already in serious trouble.	But in January the agency put out new extreme sea level projections its doomsday scenario in other words.	False
We hope it will serve as an analytical template going forward.	These are decisions that impact the presidents ability to make foreign policy decisions Brouillette told TheDCNF.	We get to assist Poland we get to assist Lithuania we get to assist the Baltic states.	Brouillette also stressed the geopolitical implications of LNG exports and the role energy could play in President Donald Trumps foreign policy.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	True
Mr. Trump believes that because he doesnt get close enough to the dossiers to fully understand them.	It seems our attempt failed.	Trump goes after negative press covfefe in botched midnight tweet Duck!	Thats not how it works.	Bush in the early 90s.	False
We also pay attention to the climate and we are also thinking deeply interacting taking action and so many people are very conscientious on this issue she added.	While many around the world are talking about reducing greenhouse gases the U.S. continues to deliver and todays report is further evidence of our action oriented approach he added.	Rep. Adam Kinzinger R IL reiterated that point to Greta Thunberg and the other climate kids who testified before theHouse Committee on Foreign Affairs andSelect Committee on the Climate Crisis on Wednesday.	However there was a remarkable lack of participation from individuals in China the planets worst greenhouse gas emitter minus a protest in Hong Kong.	These achievements flow largely from technological breakthroughs in the private sector not the heavy hand of government.	False
Its not going to be fully ready until it begins to reflect the kind of environmental and energy issues that our people are concerned about said Darryl Jordan 65 the co director of the East Michigan Environmental Action Council.	The three word slogan surged into Americas political lexicon last November when activists with the youth led Sunrise Movement occupied then incoming House Speaker Nancy Pelosis office demanding Democrats champion climate policy that actually matches the scope of the crisis.	But her parents didnt.	A few job promises and they get to pollute as much as they want.	Then you know what we get?	False
It is a key element in continuing the progress moving toward clean energy and retiring coal.	Now the public has an opportunity to weigh in as EPA is required to accept public comment on the proposed repeal and a discussion paper on a replacement Rhea Suh president of the Natural Resources Defense Council said in a statement Monday.	And Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club said Trump and Pruitt are launching one of the most egregious attacks on public health and climate safety.	first reported on the repeal proposal.	first reported on the repeal proposal.	False
Currys ultimate conclusion Some of the worst case scenarios strain credulity.	She can be very confusing.	Climate is your closet wardrobe.	I thought this was fake but its from Ocasio Cortezs Instagram story tweeted Maue.	Currys latestresearch put together for clients of her consulting company near the end of November looks in detail at projections of sea level rise.	True
Dawn Amos meh my dogs are the boss of me February 21 2019 You can't believe science in a selective manner and claim to be pro science.	President Donald Trumps pick to head the committee William Happer once compared the demonization of CO2 to how Jews were characterized in Nazi Germany.	That is hypocrisy.	The initial tweet was posted the White House Office of Science and Technology after it issued a report titled Science Technology Highlights in the Second Year of the Trump Administration.	Robert Johnson February 21 2019 When you continue to deny climate science you cant make the claim that you are a driver of science policy.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Evidence since enactment of the Energy Independence and Security Act suggests an increase in acreage planted with soybeans and corn with strong indications from observed changes in land use that some of this increase is a consequence of increased biofuel production read a portion of the 159 page report.	The law was passed with the intention of aiding in climate change efforts.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Essentially the study found that biofuel mandates are boosting production of corn and soybeans.	True
Where does he get off thinking he's going to stop human progress?	We know that certain oil and gas corporations have been fighting public policy on this issue have been hiding their own science and research at the expense of our climate and human life he said.	economy thefossil fuel industry runs thiseconomy it'screated all of thiswealth revolutionizedtransportation communications industry lifted people out of poverty Watters said.	Watters asked.	O'Rourke also said that he wanted people in the fossil fuel industry to act as partners in reaching his goal.	True
To highlight contributions 2 conservation I installed Big Buck Hunter in the employee cafeteria.	Hunters anglers and target shooters are the best conservationists who contribute so much through the Pittman Robertson and Dingell Johnson Acts said Richard Childress NRA vice president.	Another pro hunting group says what they are seeing within Interior is a fight between access and conservation.	And the big thing that the secretary hears over and over again is that people just don't have access to land.	Access to our own public lands is a lot harder today than it ever has been and that is in part introduced with the decline in hunting numbers we've seen said Whit Fosburgh president and CEO of the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership a non profit coalition of conservation organizations and outdoor related businesses.	False
Under Trump the fossil fuel industry has wielded unusual influence over the agency that supposedly regulates it and beleaguered staff fret that its public health mission is at risk of being buried.	He will talk to us.	I wasnt interested in that.	Scott Pruitt who on Thursday resigned as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency was a firm favourite of Donald Trump.	I am still not interested in that.	False
have adopted almost precisely as I proposed it in 2008.	According to the group which is led by former Secretaries of State James Baker III and George Shultz and former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson their plan would tax fossil fuel companies and redistribute the funds back to Americans in equal portions thereby artificially raising the price of fossil fuels and making renewable energy sources more competitive.	In a recent interview with the Scientific American noted climate alarmist James Hansen which the article refers to as the father of climate change awareness said the plan promoted by Republicans is similar to one he developed in 2008 and would be popular with the American people.	This way it actually stimulates the economy Hansen said.	If its a tax taken by the government it makes the government bigger and it depresses the economy.	False
Mother Jonesasked an expert to decipher this nonsense and you can read his analysis here.	In itthe service writes Of particular concern are longer fire seasons and the rising size and severity of wildfires along with the growing risk to lives homes natural resources and other values.	Its a breath of fresh air to see science instead of politics inserted into forest and fire management saidKirin Kennedy associatelegislative director for lands and wildlife at the Sierra Club in a statement.	Aswildfirescontinue torageacross the Westduring a brutally hotsummer on Thursday the US Forest Service released itsnewforest fire management strategy thatfocuses on science and thechanging climate.	The longer Ryan Zinke continues to ignore these facts the greater the risks to homes and families.	False
Its a danger to the air we breathe.	This is something Ive taken on in California I have a history of working on this issue she added.	But for me I think the way we get there is we just say sorry guys but by 2035 youre done she said during CNNs town hall.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	Jay Inslee D ahead of CNNs town hall.	False
As we have said many times the Presidents team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the Presidents plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986 deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters said in a statement responding to WaPosstory.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	This proposal goes one step further by shrinking the overall size of government and streamlining the regulatory state.	The meeting sparked speculation that the White House was considering a carbon tax as part of a broader tax reform plan.	False
Survey vessels will be required to have observers on board to listen and watch for marine life and alert operators if a protected species comes within a certain distance officials have said and acoustic monitoring will be used to detect those animals swimming beneath the ocean surface.	Surveys would be shut down when certain sensitive species or groups are observed and penalties could be imposed for vessels that strike marine animals.	These lawsuits are one tool in our bag that we're going to use.	When you have every mayor every community saying 'We don't want this' and now you're going to shove seismic testing down our throats?	South Carolina Gov.	False
Whatever the reason we have to be ready to deal with them.	Plans include raising coastal infrastructure protecting vulnerable supply chains and increasing disaster training.	It also shows that the military is on the front lines of the consequences of rising temperatures.	I believe the climate is changing.	I dont know why he said.	True
As we use and reuse things it gives us some social engagement status.	It helps give other islanders something to think about Ritter explains.	I think part of the benefit of a detailed audit like this is that it increases everyone's mindfulness about what they are doing with food says Gordon Jackson the manager of the resort's Waste to Wealth initiative.	For many hotels simple knowledge of the issue has resulted in greater observance from staff and ultimately less waste.	In May I experienced one hotel's efforts firsthand as I stood on the roof at ITC Maurya a hotel in Delhi.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	It is a threat to America and to all of humanity.	Just because our scientists publish something in a journal doesnt mean that thats agency policy or all the other scientists at the agency agree with that particular study Wheeler told Reuters.	But Trump and his fellow Republicans refuse to acknowledge reality and they certainly can't be bothered to read scientific reports about it.	But EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler a former coal lobbyist and a pro pollution apologist doesn't care.	False
She already has an honour to her name after winning Amnesty International's highest Ambassadors of Conscience human rights award last month.	Putin said young people who paid attention to environmental issues should be supported.	The 16 year old Swede started the Fridays for Future movement to demand action be taken to combat global warming and is currently taking a year off school to focus on campaigning.	She raged People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing we are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and the fairy tale of endless economic growth.	But head activism has led to criticism from from world leaders and others who allege she is being manipulated.	True
The Trump Administration's persistent and indefensible denial of climate change and their continued assault on actions essential to stemming its increasing devastation is reprehensible and I will use every available legal tool to fight their dangerous agenda said Schneiderman a Democrat.	That was the right thing to do.	The store's owners have been forced to lay off about 60 percent of its workers in recent years.	He put America first and said to the rest of the world we are going to say no and exit the Paris Accord.	Follow him at This story has been corrected to show the percentage of coal jobs created under Trump was 4 percent.	False
The Agency's press release quoted Pruitt saying I'm focused on getting EPA back to the basics of protecting human health and the environment and one of my top priorities is delivering real results for the people of East Chicago.'	Administrator Pruitt was working for environmental justice by meeting with the real residents affected by lead contamination and by committing to get results.	We need them to commit to adjusting cleanup plan for the site.	Those demands include Oversight of East Chicago's ongoing attempts to improve its corrosion control treatment expanded blood lead level testing of children under age 7 bottled water and home water filtration systems to residents throughout the city and testing the city's drinking water to determine the extent of the contamination.	We want that soil to be disposed of properly so as not to cause further contamination we want continued testing of the soil and ground water in this area and a commitment to ensure the residents exposed to the lead get the physical and mental health care they need for the rest of their life.	True
It can be summed up in one word confusion.	Sometimes it appears to be a result of ineptitude other times it appears to be tactical.	They seem not to have read it.	It appears that Trumps real purpose was to please his base while blunting criticism with the hint that he might change his mind.	Instead Trump hopes to show that he is standing up to the world community on behalf of Americas interests.	False
Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	People adapt rather easily.	This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN but it is far from sound science or even good economics.	The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	False
Last yearSens.	James Skeaa co chair of an IPCC working group said it was one among that portfolio of instruments that can be used but could not serve as a panacea.	But for some conservative climate hawks the reality of the IPCC report hit home.	Asked where the line is between what critics said was the previous administrations federal overreach and attempting to stave off the worst of what the IPCC predicted Flint went quiet for a while.	Now he says hes trying to get politicians to catch up with the science.	True
How a person can have such unshakable certainty in the outcome of complex future events is truly remarkable.	Perhaps Mr. Schneider should consider what a war on the environment would actually look like.	The essay by Nathan Schneider appearing in the May 31 issue of America titled Trumps war on the environment is a war on the young and the unborn makes the incredible case that withdrawing from the Paris agreement constitutes a war on future generations tantamount to genocide.	Maybe they just want an America that is able to think and act for itself rather than one that bows to ever fad espoused by globalist elites.	One hardly knows where to begin in taking apart an argument that is literally filled with errors fallacies inconsistencies and non sequiturs.	True
We still have a lot to do in this country to clean up air pollution said Lyndsay Moseley Alexander director of the Association's Healthy Air Campaign.	With this report the Lung Association also calls out Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency EPA for ongoing threats to the nations air quality including steps to roll back or weaken enforcement of the Clean Air Act.	Overall the report said about133 million Americans more than four of 10 live with unhealthful levels of air pollution placing them at risk for premature death and other serious health effects such as lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	The report looked at pollution levels from 2014 to 2016.	Bakersfield Calif. wasin second place for ozone pollution.	True
It's hard not to think there's an element of spite in this rhetoric as wealthy and influential Californians led talk of secession following Trump's 2016 election victory.	As for the water it's Trump vs. the Delta smelt an endangered fish scientists argue can only be saved if the dammed waters are allowed to flow into the ocean instead of being used to irrigate the farms and homes of California residents.	Trump wants to redistribute that water to Californians he says.	While she has worked for the department since 2013 environmentalists accuse her of gutting protections for migratory birds and endangered species.	Speaking at a White House address on Tuesday Trumpwas shocked that Californians weren't using the water contained by their dams to put out the fires and irrigate their fields.	False
Ann Carlson a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests theres something there that piques the courts interest.	The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate.	The federal government under Presidents Barack Obama and Donald Trump has argued the case has no merit and repeatedly sought to have it dismissed.	Asked for comment the Department of Justice pointed to comments made by Jeffrey Wood a political appointee at the DOJ handling environmental cases who spoke about the Juliana case at a law conference last week.	The suit Juliana v. US also known as the childrens climate lawsuit was first filed in 2015 and now includes 21 plaintiffs between the ages of 11 and 22 including Sophie Kivlehan 20 the granddaughter of the famed climate scientist James Hansen.	False
We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future?	As one of Florida's leading environmental researchers Dr. Frazer understands the unique water issues facing our state and the actions we must take to solve them he said Monday.	And the idea that you're signing up for some type of agenda I don't want to ... send a signal that that's what I'm doing because I'm not doing that DeSantis said .	DeSantis appointed Thomas Frazer a biologist who has been director of the University of Florida's School of Natural Resources and Environment since 2012 and previously worked as acting director of the UF Water Institute In the new position he will coordinate Florida's research data and scientific work and make sure officials have the scientific analysis they need to tackle the state's environmental problems.	There's also a chance that more than 346 billion in property value will bebelow sea level by 2100 studies show Frazer said he's honored by the appointment.	False
Christina DeConcini director of government affairs for the environmental group World Resources Institute said the US needs a fact based approach for how to address this clear and present danger to America's infrastructure homes and businesses.	There are a number of factors that contribute to that including human activity.	The question is what are we going to do about it and at what cost?	Thanks for this hearing.	Sea level rise and coastal flooding driven by climate change pose real significant risks to our residents and should not be politicized he said.	False
That aims to ensure development projects arent built in areas where minority populations might not have the resources to defend their rights.	In its analysis of the Missouri River crossing the Corps studied the mostly white demographics in a half mile 0.8 kilometer radius which the agency maintains is standard.	The Corps must simply connect the dots he said.	It includes increased public reporting of pipeline issues such as repairs and implementation of a spill response plan including equipment staging at Lake Oahe.	The judge said the Corps also didnt adequately study how the pipeline might disproportionately affect the tribal community a concept known as environmental justice.	False
They say the president favours development over conservation.	Far right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe.	Mr Bolsonaro who in July dismissed a similar Inpe report as flawed has not commented on the latest data.	Who is Brazil's new leader Jair Bolsonaro?	As the largest rainforest in the world the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming.	False
They knew or should have known that this harmful compound would reach groundwater pollute drinking supplies render drinking water unusuable and unsafe and threaten the public health and welfare stated the complaint which claims an underground storage tank likely held the chemical.	Xindi Hu the study's lead author warned that the actual number of people exposed may be even higher than our study found because government data for levels of these compounds in drinking water is lacking for almost a third of the U.S. populationabout 100 million people.	In addition to the Air Force the water district lawsuits name 10 firms they say were associated with providing chemicals to the base Elementis Chromium Inc. Occidental Chemical Corp. Honeywell Inc. BASF Corp. PPG Inc. E.I.	Plaintiffs argued that as far back as 1984 McClellan had burn and burial pits trenches and unlined ponds and ditches contaminated with chemicals.	The lawsuits named the US Air Force and 10 major firms involved in supplying chromium products and chemicals to the base and was filed by the Sacramento Suburban Water District and the Rio Linda Elverta Community Water District according to the Sacramento Bee.	False
To an unprecedented extent the Agency withheld fundamental information purporting to justify the Rule UWAG argued adding that included pages of the record that demonstrably were not entitled to confidential treatment.	I have decided that it is appropriate and in the public interest to reconsider the rule Pruitt wrote in a letter sent Wednesday to counsel for a utility group and officials at the U.S. Small Business Administration SBA.	Pruitt was responding to a petition sent by the Utility Water Action Group UWAG urging the Trump administration to rescind its Effluent Limitations Guidelines for coal fired power plants.	UWAG and others argued the rule violated the Clean Water Act and Administrative Procedures Act.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	False
Kim Ross ReThink Energy Florida leader resident witnessed people in her communityinTallahasseefeeling helpless after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster which damaged Gulf Coast ecosystems.	This is something thats happening now and needs to be addressed now.	Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because climate change is an issue that affects every other issue agriculture the economy including tourism.	Melissa Baldwin co organizer of Miami Climate Month which organized the rally says from the moment she and her fellow organizers found out the first debate would be in Miami they wanted to put a spotlight on climate change because you cant come to Miami without talking about climate change.	Just a few hours before the second round of 2020 Democratic presidential contenders are set to face off dozens of local activists in Miami Florida held an Underwater Climate Rally calling for more discussion about climate change at the second Democratic debate.	False
The cable also said diplomats should make clear that the United States wants to help other countries use fossil fuels which have been linked to global warming.	The United States has usually contributed to around 20 percent of the UNFCCC budget.	In a diplomatic cable that Reuters obtained last month Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said U.S. diplomats should sidestep questions from foreign governments on how the United States plans re engage in the global Paris climate agreement.	Democratic Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon the amendments author said on Twitter on Thursday Despite dangerous decision unwillingness to act we can will fight back to combat The amendment passed 16 14.	Framework Convention on Climate Change as well as the scientific body the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.	False
This has to do with active forest management.	Combined with drought insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality the op ed continues.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	California Democratic Gov.	But theres been a change in fire behavior over the last century as the state and federal government began dousing the blazes.	False
She calls for a World War II scale mobilization that includes high quality education and health care clean air and water and safe affordable housing.	She also cites Franklin D. Roosevelts New Deal Lyndon B. Johnsons Great Society and the interstate highway system begun under Dwight D. Eisenhower as examples of American know how and capability.	A joint resolution drafted by Ocasio Cortez and Markey sets a goal to meet 100 percent of the power demand in the United States through clean renewable and zero emission energy sources including dramatic increases in wind and solar power.	Ocasio Cortez said in a statement that the plan will create unprecedented levels of prosperity and wealth for all while ensuring economic and environmental justice and security.	A news conference at the Capitol is set for Thursday the day they introduce the resolution.	False
He urged participants to use their demonstrated aptitude for innovation to address two of the great needs in todays world the care of the poor and the environment.	Civilization requires energy but energy must not destroy civilization he implored.	Francis said that modern society with its massive movement of information persons and things requires an immense supply of energy.	The transition to accessible and clean energy is a duty that we owe toward millions of our brothers and sisters around the world poor countries and generations yet to come the pope said.	Participants included the CEOs of Italian oil giant ENI British Petroleum ExxonMobil and Norways Statoil as well as scientists and managers of major investment funds.	False
It's a problem you get with these very social animals that tend to for reasons we have never been clear on end up following either a sick leader onto the beach or end up getting lost as a group Dr Brownlow says.	Experts say the answer lies in their herd like behaviour.	So what could be behind these cases?	While the exact reasons remain unclear experts say many different factors could play a part.	It's probably not anything to do with what humans have done.	False
Our community and our planet are under attack yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate.	Its time for the people to step up to resolve this crisis before we run out of time.	Jessie Braverman the groups media liaison told RT that around 25 people showed up at the train tracks to address climate change and let the governor know that if he isnt going to stop the terminal than we will.	While federal regulators acknowledge the risks of crude by rail they have taken few steps toward increasing safety Inslee wrote in an op ed for the Columbian last year.	In 2014 the state of Washington passed legislation to increase track and hazardous material inspections require oil spill contingency plans increase funding for prevention and cleanup of oil spills and improve safety at crossings along oil train routes.	False
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi brushed it aside in an interview with Rolling Stone on Thursday saying it goes beyond what our charge is.	An early overview of the plan since removed from Ocasio Cortez website promised economic security for all who are unable or unwilling to work swore to sideline the private sector in all environmental decision making and even vowed to eliminate farting cows.	You're just a garden variety hypocrite like the others.	Think your friends would be interested?	Moore helped found the veteran eco organization in the 1970s before parting ways with his fellow activists over their left wing politics and becoming an advocate for nuclear power and lobbyist for the forestry industry.	False
Like this story?	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	wondered one user.	Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audiences eyes at the climate change town hall literally as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half truths and excuses.	False
Thats despite the fact that the 38 page document projects more frequent and more expensive disasters.	This is a glaring omission from an agency that deals with anticipating and responding to weather extremes driven in part by a changing climate.	Its not just rhetoric.	And some government research grant applications faced extra scrutiny and rejection for mentioning the double C word.	But it wasnt so coy in its previous 2014 2018 strategic plan which noted that the agency will also ensure that future risks including those influenced by climate change are effectively integrated into the Agencys risk assessment resources and processes.	False
He united a biological and social vision for forestry one where human happiness and decent livelihoods might sprout from robust forests.	This story was originally published by High Country Newsand is shared here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	Though ultimately unsuccessful those efforts illustrated a push to establish stability amid unsettling crisis a goal Marshall shared.	The socialist sobriquet stokes ideological fires but douses historical understanding.	By the early 20th centuryhundreds of years of unregulated cutting had ravaged the nations forests and Americans faced a crisis that demanded intervention.	False
This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	Meet the trees get to know their superpowers and learn how scientists are trying to protect them.	This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you me and the whole world.	And so what happens to these forests truly affects all life on Earth.	We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster not just locally but globally.	False
I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice.	I believe I am the only person here who will say unequivocally this is my number one priority Steyer continued.	I know that we have to deal with this crisis.	Steyer also called on Mayor Pete Buttigieg another Democrat presidential hopeful to put more emphasis on climate change saying the people in his generation understand that this is a crisis that we have to go on right now and reinvent America.	Steyer then shifted focus to cleaning up the air and water in the black and brown communities where our pollution is concentrated and claimed it would create millions of middle class union jobs.	False
As you can see we're continuing the president's agenda post haste.	Though not as controversial or ethically compromised as PruittWheeler is opposed by a number of environmental groups who sharply criticize the president's aggressive efforts to undo Obama era rules they say are designed to protect the environment and address climate change.	While leading President Donald Trump's deregulatory agenda Wheeler also has emphasized the agency's work to clean up Superfund sites and for the first time begin regulating a set ofharmful chemicalsfound in drinking water systems that serve millions of Americans.	It's a sad day for public health and the EPA but missionaccomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries Ken Cook president of the Environmental Working Group said in a statement following the vote.	While calling Wheeler certainly qualified for this position Collins said some of the policies he has proposed as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	False
It's made us more sustainable environmentally and also economically.	His hope is that the concept will spread here.	In addition to food donations Whole Foods composts this waste to energy system is yet another way to meet its goal.	It's an industrial strength grinder that gobbles up all the scraps of food the store can't sell explains Karen Franczyk who is the sustainability program manager for Whole Foods' North Atlantic region.	The process begins by gathering wasted food from around the state including from many Whole Foods locations.	False
As president I have one obligation and that obligation is to the Americanpeople Trump said during a speech in theRose Garden announcingthe decision.	California Gov.	Were moving forward.	We believe the rest of the world will do the same.	Jerry Brown said he hopes Trump's insane move to back out of the Paris accord will spur others to action.	False
Its not just because activists want to vet candidate platforms and solutions but because even getting candidates to talk more about an issue can raise the issues profile.	It is the most destructive threat to America and mankind.	John Hickenlooper Wayne Messam the mayor of Miramar Florida California Rep. Eric Swalwell and author Marianne Williamson.	They are Sen. Cory Booker who called for more time to be devoted to the issue after the first debate Montana Gov.	Jay Inslee who has put global warming at the center of his campaign.	False
The most effective environmental efforts are often small personal actions in which people have skin in the game.	Every Earth Day we are treated to theatrical images of marches featuring unhinged activists demanding action on a range of environmental issues.	Why progressives refuse to live by their own Earth Day bluster George Monbiot recently expressed a carefully calibrated environmental message that allows people on the environmental left to feel self righteous without making any real sacrifice.	Those who considered themselves skeptical of climate change were most likely to report engaging in individual level pro environmental behaviors.	Only the sacrifices made by others will make a difference.	False
Its the best way to send a pricing signal.	He said the government should help people move but avoided answering a question from the moderator Don Lemon about whether some areas were simply too risky for human habitation.	One area where the Texan came down strong No limits on the meat industry despite calls from the United Nations for people to change their diet to avoid more damage to global land use.	Mr. ORourke was less clear about whether he believes people in his home state of Texas should be prevented from living in vulnerable flood areas.	Asylum laws Mr. ORourke said should include those who have been impacted by climate change.	False
I consider it to be an issue that has to be addressed globally.	Sen. Bernie Sanders I VT asked Wheeler repeatedly.	One thing thats important on the regulatory side is that we dont try to tip the scale one way or the other for example on energy sources he said.	I do consider myself a conservationist he said.	The Trump administration wants one standard for the country as well as a much more relaxed fuel economy target than the one proposed under President Obama.	False
I agree that we need to ensure that we move forward in a sustainable rational manner said Graves.	At the University of Nevada Reno Stallar Lufrano Jardine 36 is setting up an event on campus where she's an employee and student.	And a quarter of the poll respondents said they have participated in a school walk out a rally or contacted a government official on the issue.	Strike organizers have a list of demands that includes respect of indigenous land sustainable agriculture protecting biodiversity environmental justice and a just transition away from fossil fuels and towards renewable energy said 17 year old Baltimore resident and organizer Nadia Nazar.	There have been similar student events in the past year.	False
He is the only candidate to put out an animal and wildlife welfare policy which seeks to end euthanasia for household dogs and cats and strengthen protections for endangered species.	The plan calls for ensuring that public lands waters and oceans are protected and restoring and protecting threatened endangered and fragile ecosystems.	Her policy vision unveiled in April includes overturning Trumps land rollbacks a moratorium on oil and gas leases on federal land and recruiting 10000 youth and veterans for a 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps.	We need to connect the dots Castro said Wednesday.	Castro Harris Sen. Cory Booker D N.J. and former Vice President Joe Biden have all committed to working toward protecting 30 of Americas land and water by 2030.	False
We can potentially provide a powerful solution to produce the food closer to the population needing it at the exact and right time it is needed.	In future the technique could be used to provide meat for people living on the space station.	This joint experiment marks a significant first step toward achieving our vision to ensure food security for generations to come while preserving our natural resources.	One found that avoiding meat and dairy products was the single biggest way to reduce an individuals environmental impact on the planet.	The development marks a further step forward for a nascent industry that aims to provide people with real meat without the environmental impact and welfare problems of intensive livestock production.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Most who took part in the summit agreed that afee on carbon emissions is pivotal in reforming the U.S. energy sector according to an Axios report.	That is more than 21000 in income loss per family a portion of the letter read.	Ernest Moniz who served as an energy secretary under the Obama administration took part in the summit and said one of the areas of focus was carbon pricing to create market incentives for the transition to a low carbon system.	False
Etc.	People who want to ban golden rice or other GMOs people who deny that a fetus is a whole human people who insist fetal pain is a myth people who get outraged by claims that say men cant get pregnant.	Anyway what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning.	Both GLAAD and Human Rights Watch cant seem to decide whether the science is bad because its fake and flawed or bad because it might work.	The point is that opponents dont like this science because of the political and social consequences of it.	False
I think some kind of major flood happened all over the world and it left an indelible imprint on the collective memory of mankind that got preserved in these stories.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	I dont think the biblical deluge is just a fairy tale Terence Hughes a retired glaciologist told Gillis.	In the Epic of Gilgamesh waters so overwhelm the mortals that the gods grow frightened too Gillis wrote In Indias version Lord Vishnu warns a man to take refuge in a boat carrying seeds.	In the Bible God orders Noah to carry two of every living creature on his ark.	False
Andreally what were trying to do is affect the bottom line the financial equation for the use of fossil fuels she said.	Lets help bring the death knell to this industry thats done so much harm.	She appeared to contradict herself a few sentences later telling the audience that the intent is really to eliminate the oil industrys license to operate.	Manufacturers and conservative groups worry trial attorneys are behind the spat of climate litigation.	NYCs lawsuit does appear to suggest the intent is not to destroy but rather to mitigate harm.	False
The ad was released on Oct. 30 and immediatelynational environmental groups that generally align with Democrats called foul underscoring their support of Curbelos Democratic challenger Debbie Mucarsel Powell.	1 donorhas been NextEra Energy the Florida electric utility which is one of the largest purveyors of solar and wind energy projects in the country.	Debbie Mucarsel Powell is a climate champion and the advocate South Floridians need as they watch sea levels rise see beaches destroyed by red tide and live with the increasing threat of stronger more powerful hurricanes.	If Curbelo had been half the climate champion he claims he is he wouldnt be desperately seeking an ad littered with lies such as this said Sierra Club PAC Director Sarah Burton in a statement.	We sure appreciate the help from the NRCC in calling out politicians who take dirty fossil fuel money and then obstruct progress on climate change and are looking forward to similar NRCC ads attacking every single one of their own candidates said RL Miller Climate Hawks Votes political director in a statement.	False
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	It was only about past events.	The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	Researchers believe that changes to the Earth's orbit may be partly responsible for some of the Earth's cooling but additional factors have likely played a part Jensen added.	False
They have an energy and will to innovation that is not only infectious but inspiring.	They need to do a whole lot more homework and much more research and analysis before we can ever even really engage in this discussion says Colin Woodall senior vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association.	And the resolution just doesn't quite get us there says Nicole Ghio senior fossil fuel program manager at Friends of the Earth.	It calls for a speedy shift in energy generation from fossil fuels to renewable sources like wind and solar and for a fair and just transition for all communities and workers.	We need not to discourage them she says.	False
Earlier this year TrumptappedHapper to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting adversarial scientific peer review of climate science part of the administrations relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis.	It was Bolton who recruited Happer to the National Security Council and backed his effort to create an anti science panel according to The New York Times.	While your proposed review of alarmist analyses and projections has been delayed we believe your work in calling attention to the problem of unscientific climate alarmism has reduced the chances of the dramatic increases in energy prices that would arise from the banning of fossil fuels that some have proposed Patrick Moore and Caleb Rossiter two representatives of the CO2 Coalition wrote in a joint statement.	A retired Princeton physics professor with no expertise in climatology Happer has served as President Donald Trumps deputy assistant for emerging technologies on the National Security Council since September 2018.	William Happer the White Houses most veteran climate change denier who tried unsuccessfully to establish an ad hoc panel to challenge near universally accepted climate science is leaving the Trump administration according to reports from EE Newsand Bloomberg.	False
I want a spectacular country with jobs with pensions with so many things and that's what we're getting so I want to be very careful at the same time at the same time it's very important to me very important to me we have to maintain this incredible this incredible place that we've all built.	'We can take care of people that we couldn't afford taking care of the past because of the great wealth we can't let that wealth is taken away clean air clean water thank you very much everybody I appreciate it thank you' he concluded.	I want clean water I want a wealthy country.	'A lot of people don't understand that I have done more environmental impact statements probably than anybody that's I guess I can say definitely because I've done many many many of them.	'I want clean air.	False
Even you.	Do you know what?	But before you ring up your grandchildren and warnthem to cancel the marquee theyve booked for their 100th birthday celebrations perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothmans cheery prediction.	Second Rothman appears to have given himself so much margin for error as to render his doomsday projection meaningless.	In the geologic past this type of behavior is associated with mass extinction.	False
Recently a policy briefing from the world leading Woods Hole Research Center has moved our understanding of this risk further through a clearly written summary.	It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self reinforcing cycle takes over.	A policy briefing from the Woods Hole Research Center concludes that the IPCC doesnt adequately account for a methane warming feedback While most attention has been given to carbon dioxide it isnt the only greenhouse gas that scientists are worried about.	Even as some scientists are still looking at what happened during the second half of the 20th century at a scale of change over decades others are beginning to address the significant acceleration of changes observed year by year.	Carbon dioxide is the most important human emitted greenhouse gas but methane has also increased in the atmosphere and it adds to our concerns.	False
It informs decision makers.	Scientific evidenceand input iscrucial to policy efforts.	And it should not take away from the terrific scientific work that is being done because at the heart of all this is not the politics its the knowledge.	This type of political interference or scientific censorship whatever you want to call it is ill advised and does a real disservice to the American peopleand public health.	We can debate the issues we can have different viewpointsbut we should all be able to objectively examine the data and look at the evidence ... Now is not the time to turn a blind eye to what science is telling us that climate change and other factors are influencing the health of this estuary ...	False
People they note are finally paying attention.	When the Times doesnt challenge a pro life message better read closely.	Meanwhile reporter Lisa Friedman on Tuesday used a comment from the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to stick up for the tasteless global warming warriors now using the tragedy of Hurricane Irma to forward their environmental agenda in For E.P.A.	The text box Concerns that the U.S. is dodging questions on global warming.	He presents himself as a man who is pro life.	False
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	In order to shield citizens from higher fossil fuel prices revenue from the tax would be given back out to households.Sponsors of the legislation believe it would slash greenhouse gas emissions by one third over a 10 year period and a 90 percent cut by 2050 compared to 2015 emission levels.	Putting a price on carbon can help change the behavior of polluters.	We hope our bipartisan bill will spur action on climate change before its too late.	False
Its pure unadulterated selfishness.	Trump and Pruitt and others of their ilk might have greed and corruption as motives.	Pay attention CNN.	This is why deniers exist.	Get real.	False
Its a danger to the air we breathe.	They make surrounding communities less healthy and less safe.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	They must be immediately banned.	No.	False
Under Scope of the Plan a section on labor states the committees final plan shall Require strong enforcement of labor workplace safety and wage standards that recognize the rights of workers to organize and unionize free of coercion intimidation and harassment and creation of meaningful quality career employment.	So whats actually in it?	Early on under Jurisdiction the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national industrial economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality.	Its scope and mandate for legislative authority amounts to a radical grant of power to Washington over Americans lives homes businesses travel banking and more.	Editors Note This post has been updated with grammatical fixes.	False
People across the world must rise to save the planet.	If there was one time in the history when I would say governments fucked up I would say today in Madrid governments fucked up said Mohamed Adow Director of Power Shift Africa.	The difference between the youth on the streets and the negotiations is that the youth on the streets are acting with urgency she told AFP.	I have never seen such a disconnect between what the science requires and the people of the world demand versus what the climate negotiations are delivering Alden Meyer strategy and policy director at the Union of Concerned Scientists told AFP.	These emerging giants have chosen instead to emphasise the historical responsibility of rich nations to lead the way and provide financing to poor countries.	False
Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	People adapt rather easily.	This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN but it is far from sound science or even good economics.	The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	False
Justin Haskins Jhaskins is executive editor of The Heartland Institute and the co founder of StoppingSocialism.com.	However the cause of this increase is debated and there is low confidence in attribution of changes in tropical cyclone activity to human influence.	Either way you should stick to what the best available science says not the fear mongering of anti conservative zealots.	This is total nonsense.	The reason the Washington Post and others are consistently alleging despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary that Republicans are somehow to blame for natural disasters such as Hurricane Florence is either because they know absolutely nothing about the topic or because they believe it will help Democrats win elections.	False
