The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed.	Last month a series of earthquakes struck the Indonesian island of Lombok killing hundreds of people the biggest on 5 August killed more than 460.	The 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia.	Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque amongst the buildings damaged.	Indonesia is prone to earthquakes because it lies on the Ring of Fire the line of frequent quakes and volcanic eruptions that circles virtually the entire Pacific rim.	True
The authors conclude that 'national security can and must be pursued with an approach that preserves our natural heritage.'	ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The bordersis an ecological theatre where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays.	ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The borderis an ecological theater where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays.	'A multitude of factors climatic conditions topography geological history soil types converge to create an amazing mosaic of ecosystems.'	'A multitude of factors climatic conditions topography geological history soil types converge to create an amazing mosaic of ecosystems.'	True
The Trump administration has held the biggest lease sale of oil and gas in US history.	People need jobs the Gulf Coast states need revenue and Americans do not want to be dependent on foreign oil.	US crude oil output has grown by more than 20 percent since mid 2016.	The Center for American Progress a left leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement saying in a statement that offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources.	Trump is selling off our oceans and selling out coastal communities and marine life to the oil industry said Kristen Monsell oceans program legal director at the Center for Biological Diversity.	True
Among those promises are a 681 billion program for families and small businesses to trade in old vehicles for newer more energy efficient motors a souped up version of the Obama administration era Cash for Clunkers program.	According to the campaign revenue will be generated via a host of measures including slapping the fossil fuel industry with fees litigation and taxes and generating revenue from the sale of energy.	As president Bernie Sanders will launch the decade of the Green New Deal a ten year nationwide mobilization centered around justice and equity during which climate change will be factored into virtually every area of policy from immigration to trade to foreign policy and beyond his campaign said in a press release.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Further sources of revenue or savings includetax revenue from the proposed 20 million jobs higher taxes on the wealthy lower military spending and a reduced need for welfare spending due to the creation of millions of good paying unionized jobs.	In a nod to the social justice part of the plan he says that the deal is an opportunity to uproot historical injustices and inequities to advance social racial and economic justice including redressing the exclusion of black brown Native Americanand other vulnerable communities from the programs that made up the original New Deal.	True
Driven by an anti immigrant agenda the Trump administration is callously putting construction of an environmentally and culturally destructive border wall above water resources for communities on both sides of the border federally protected lands clean air and the lives of hundreds of endangered species all while turning a blind eye to the vital relationships of cross border communities and our longstanding values as a nation she said in a statement.	It described the sector which includes some 60 miles of the U.S. Mexico border as an area of high illegal entry for which there is an immediate need to improve current infrastructure and construct additional border barriers and roads.	So far very little funding has been secured for the walls estimatedcost of upwards of 70 billion a tab Trump insists Mexico will eventually pay for.	Trumps wall is a divisive symbol of fear and hatred and it does real harm to the landscape and communities.	Among the lengthy list of laws it will waive are the National Environmental Policy Act a 1969 law requiring federal agencies to complete environmental assessments of their projects the Endangered Species Act the Migratory Bird Conservation Act and the Clean Air Act.It is likely a sign of how the administration which has worked swiftly to roll back a slew of environmental regulations plans to fulfill Trumpspledgefor a great great wall on the nearly 2000 mile southern border.	False
President Trump says hes pulling out of the Paris climate agreement.	He then proceeds to chronicle the negative effects of pollution in the United States.	It deals specifically with reducing greenhouse gas emissions particularly carbon dioxide CO2 with the stated objective of combatting global warming.	My message to you Mr. President is that as a public servant and especially as a president your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people Schwarzenegger begins.	But this has nothing to do with the Paris climate accord.	False
Silicon Valley business leaders like Apple CEO Tim Cook and Tesla CEO Elon Musk have also been arguing that the US should stick to the agreement.	The major Republican presidential candidates harshly criticized the Paris deal in particular and Trump promised to withdraw from it during the campaign.	So the question of whether the US should actually pull out of the agreement has reportedly been the subject of intense debate within the Trump administration.	The actual Paris deal agreed to by 195 countries in December 2015 is aspirational rather than binding calling on countries to set goals for emissions reduction.	Still withdrawing from such a recent agreement that the vast majority of countries across the world have signed on to has serious consequences for Americas role as a global leader.	False
What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency.	The 3ppm CO2 growth rate in 2015 and 2016 is extreme double the growth rate in the 1990 2000 decade Prof Euan Nisbet from Royal Holloway University of London told BBC News.	The largest increase was in the previous El Nio in 1997 1998 and it was 2.7ppm and now it is 3.3ppm it is also 50 higher than the average of the last ten years.	It is urgent that we follow the Paris agreement and switch rapidly away from fossil fuels there are signs this is beginning to happen but so far the air is not yet recording the change.	It may be a climate change feedback.	True
California Gov.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Its bad and how we counteract it is with a climate summit with normal people respecting the truth and communicating that with other normal people and combating the President of the United States in what are lies distortions and quite frankly bizarre behavior.	Browns criticism of Trump appears to have fallen on deaf ears at the White House as the administration announced on Tuesday that it was rolling back an Obama era rule meant to curb climate changing pollution and easing restrictions on energy companies that allow huge volumes of natural gas to escape after drilling it from U.S. lands.	But there is perhaps no area where California has been more combative against the White House agenda than the environment.	False
And all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth.	The world is waking up.	Entire ecosystems are collapsing.	How dare you pretend that this can be solved with business as usual and some technical solutions.	They also rely on my and my childrens generation sucking hundreds of billions of tonnes of your CO2 out of the air with technologies that barely exist.	False
We have to work within the systems we have and make sure we are not destroying our economy at the same time were moving to a lower carbon economy Murkowski said.	As it stands now the Green New Deal is a non binding resolution with a series of broad goals for fighting global warming including net zero greenhouse gas emissions retrofitting every building expanding high speed rail universal health care and job guarantees.	Theres no such thing as a new green deal West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin said during a Monday night panel at an international energy conference in Houston.	Theres a resolution that has a dream but theres no bill theres no contents at all.	Many Democrats including 2020 presidential hopefuls back the Green New Deal which was introduced by Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and Democratic Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey in early February.	True
Were a big region in terms of geography.	There are about 1000 people in Region 5 and it has the most industrial regions of all of the EPA the employee who asked not to be named for fear of reprisal told HuffPost.	Mikulka the EPA employees union president said shuttering Region 5 would be an effective way to hobble an agency whose mission is largely at odds with the Trump administrations deregulation orientedanti climate protection stance.	How are they going to get there?	My question is Why us?	False
The only way we're going to overcome that is by reducing emissions Gov.	The world is not flat pollution is not free and the health and safety of our children is not for sale said Democratic state Attorney General Xavier Becerra standing alongside the governor.	And he said the standards would hurt automakers and consumers who can't afford or don't want to buy more fuel efficient vehicles.	The rules were set six years ago when California and the Obama administration agreed to a single nationwide fuel economy standard.	Automakers have likewise argued that the Obama era rules would cost the industry billions of dollars and raise vehicle prices because of the cost of developing the necessary technology.	False
Chief executive Odd Arild Grefstad cited the growth of renewable energy in U.S. states such as Texas New York and California as signs that the world has started the transition from fossil to a renewable economy.	Norway's largest pension fund with 53 billion euro 59.5 billion in assets under its management said it would continue to invest in renewable energy despite the American president's decision saying in a statement that Donald Trump is jumping off a train that has already left the station.	Canete also predicted that the EU would seek new alliances from the world's largest economies to the most vulnerable island states as well as U.S. businesses and individuals supportive of the accord.	Wherever we live whoever we are we all share the same responsibility make our planet great again Macron added.	French President Emmanuel Macron German Chancellor Angela Merkel and and Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentilonisaid in a joint statement that they regretted the United States' decision to withdraw from the accord but affirmed our strongest commitment to implement its measures and encouraged all our partners to speed up their action to combat climate change.	False
If the human race wants a future that looks like utopia and not dystopia it needs to address such concerns Lagarde said predicting that in 50 years time oil will be a secondary commodity since green energy will have moved into prominence.	In June President Donald Trump announced the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accord arguing that it was a deeply flawed document that put American workers at an economic disadvantage.	Ms. Lagarde is no stranger to exaggerated predictions having proposed in 2016 that a Brexit victory would lead to 500000 job losses while suggesting that Brexit voters are narrow minded and calling for a united Europe.	Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today the study found but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwide three times more deaths than from AIDS tuberculosis and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence.	As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of carbon footprints and preaching renewable energy they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world.	False
On March 28 NBC Nightly News profiled celebrations in coal country over Trumps environmental proposals mentioning a barber shop in West Virginia where they cheered the move hoping it will bring back jobs.	On April 22 CBS Evening News correspondent Dean Reynolds noted that Joe Bast CEO of The Heartland Institute looks with approval on Mr. Trumps decision to roll back regulations limiting greenhouse gases and to his appointments of fellow skeptics in the administration.	NBC Nightly News correspondent Matt Bradleys July 30 quip that President Donald Trump shifts American climate commitments into reverse was typical of the media attitude towards the presidents environmental policies.	Right now there are less than seventy five thousand coal jobs compared to more than six hundred and fifty thousand in renewable energy which can be less expensive to produce.	Instead it covers specifically the coverage of President Trumps environmental agenda on ABC World News Tonight CBS Evening News and NBC Nightly News.	True
Two years ago he announced the United States would withdraw from a global pact to reduce carbon emissions the Paris Climate Agreement a deal Trump said could damage the U.S. economy.	Trump has slammed the idea saying it would kill millions of jobs and crush the dreams of the poorest Americans.	The divide will play into the 2020 election as Democratic hopefuls seek to sell aggressive proposals to reduce or even end fossil fuel consumption by drawing links between climate change and recent floods storms and wildfires.	The divergence shows how years of political squabbling over global warming including disputes over its existence have grown deep roots distorting the way Americans view the world around them.	The ReutersIpsos poll was conducted online in English between June 11 and 14 and gathered responses from 3281 people.	False
We demand climate action that addresses historic injustices by pricing pollution and investing in solutions that improve economic and environmental conditions in front line communities.	Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people.	The Peoples Climate Movement takes to the streets on Saturday April 29th shedding light on the intertwined destinies of clean energy and employment in the United States and around the world.	Our policy developed in partnership with mainstream environmental groups labor unions public health organizations and other stakeholders represents some of the best of what a unified national resistance could create Comprehensive equitable action against the biggest existential threat of our generation climate change.	Our communities to quote environmental justice advocate Majora Carter are the canaries in the coal mine We have already begun to experience climate disruption by virtue of where we live and work and we have always been on the front lines of pollution.	False
California Democratic Gov.	The newest version of the book The Rightful Place of Science Disasters Climate Change by University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. takes on the often false claims peddled in the media about global warming and disasters from hurricanes to floods to droughts.	Every time there is a disaster politicians journalists and scientists unfailingly spring to life to tell us that the disaster and the costs and suffering that accompanied it were associated with linked to or even caused by climate change Pielke wrote in his newly updated book.	The Times claimed the NCA showed how every part of the country has been touched by warming from droughts in the Southeast to flooding in the Midwest to a worrying rise in air and ground temperatures in Alaska and conditions will continue to worsen.	For example The New Republics Emily Atkinrecently calledfor journalists to put every weather event in the context of global warming.	False
Answer my question why will you not say that climate change is caused by carbon dioxide?	Energy Secretary Rick Perry offered little explanation when protesters pressed him to explain his position on climate change at an energy conference on Tuesday.	While man is having an effect on climate he said most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in.	His response is in stark contrast to overwhelming scientific consensus based on facts which says human activity specifically greenhouse gas emissions is the primary driver of global warming.	she pressed.	True
Department of Homeland Security.	We're building a wall between here and Mexico.'	'It's time to stop Trump's hateful bombast and his executive overreach here in San Diego before it goes any further.	He's a Mexican.	At the time he told CNN'We are building a wall.	True
I 1631 will be a trough of billions of dollars of cash for left leaning social action and progressive groups and dealing with climate change will be a secondary priority Mass wrote in a blog post with a picture of pigs feeding at a trough.	State spending seen as wasteful or geared toward a special interest is often called pork or pork barrel spending.	RELATED TheDCNF Asked Paris Climate Accord Backers If Theyd Support Banning Private Jets.	The imagery of pigs feeding at a trough has long been used to describe special interest groups trying to syphon off government spending.	Curry said the students accused Mass of deception being on the payroll of oil companies purposely obfuscating with multiple twitter accounts racism misogyny tokenism Trumpism.	False
In addition to bringing supplies of affordable energy to consumers for decades to come developing our abundant offshore resources can provide billions in government revenue create thousands of jobs and will also strengthen our national security it said in a statement.	He said it is meant to be flexible and sensible and not intended to bind one president with decisions made by another when determining offshore stewardship as needs and realities change over time.	Erik Grafe an attorney with Earthjustice welcomed the ruling saying it shows that the president cannot just trample on the Constitution to do the bidding of his cronies in the fossil fuel industry at the expense of our oceans wildlife and climate.	In 2015 Mr. Obama halted exploration in coastal areas of the Beaufort and Chukchi seas and the Hanna Shoal an important area for walrus.	Earthjustice represented numerous environmental groups that sued the Trump administration over the April 2017 executive order reversing the drilling bans.	True
Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project the group that conducted the papers report was also involved in an investigation last November targeting Exxons climate change research.	For the two decades following the Exxon Valdez disaster the company worked quietly to safeguard its operations and infrastructure against steadily rising sea levels and thawing permafrost The LA Times wrote.	Wassermanwrote an op edin January for the California paper fleshing out specifics about the probes into Exxons climate research.	TheFund has made grants to the Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project and InsideClimate News but hasno involvement in articles they produce the papers disclosure notes.	RFF has single handedly financially propped up the anti Exxon campaign.	True
The abolition of slavery.	Womens suffrage and womens rights.	In the U.S. the number of solar jobs is growing 17 times faster than the number of jobs in other industries Gore said calling the solar industry one of the brightest spots in our economic revival.	Former Vice President Al Gore said Monday that the U.S. is going through a challenging time under the Trump administration decrying President Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement.	Well the business community does not believe that at all Gore said on CBS Sunday Morning.	True
Jobs matter!	Trump maintains that his policies will both protect the environment and help spur job growth.	Three hours later Trump added I am committed to keeping our air and water clean but always remember that economic growth enhances environmental protection.	In that order which is titled Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth Trump pulled back from the Obama era Clean Power Plan and lifted a 14 month moratorium on new coal leases issued to developers seeking to mine on federal lands.	Were going to have safety were going to have clean water were going to have clean air but so many regulations are unnecessary so many are job killing Trump said in March.	True
Once a vague term for clean energy stimulus the Green New Deal re emergedin the political discourse in mid 2018.	A cadre of left wing Democratic candidates began using it to describe plans to spend trillions of dollars on a national industrial strategy to zero out fossil fuel emissions and power the country with 100 percent renewables in a decade.	are expected to unveil this week does just that calling on the nation to promote the international exchange of technology expertise products funding and services with the aim to reclaim U.S. leadership on climate change to help other countries achieve a Green New Deal.	We should be open to the fact that wealth transfer schemes suggested in the radical policies like the Green New Deal may not be the best path said Shimkus who less than a decade ago deployed Bible verses to dismiss the realities of climate science.	After failing to persuade House Democratic leaders to establish a select committee on a Green New Deal she began work on a sweeping new resolution outlining a transformative policy to guarantee high wage clean energy jobs to millions of Americans and upgrade the nations crumbling infrastructure to withstand already unavoidable extreme weather and sea level rise.	False
In exchange for getting some of its national debt paid off the island nation has agreed to protect 210000 sq km 81000 sq miles of ocean.	By planning properly to protect our environment we can be sure we are also protecting our people and their livelihoods against an uncertain future.	This is understood to be the first debt swap designed to protect ocean areas in the world.	Seychelles President Danny Faure said Our large ocean brings development opportunities but also responsibility.	What you see today in Seychelles is what we expect to introduce in the Caribbean and other ocean regions facing the threats of climate change.	True
Im sure theres giant corruption going on.	There is global warming.	So saysJames Lovelock 98 one of the worlds pre eminent environmentalists in a wide ranging interview on todays Delingpole podcast for Breitbart.	The solution he argues is nuclear power which has had a terrible press because of green propaganda most likely funded by fossil fuel industries.	But the stupid bloody academics screwed it up he says now meaning that they got their sums wrong and exaggerated the speed with which the planet is warming.	False
And so around the worldexcept in Trudeaus Canadanations are once again turning back to inexpensive coal rather than pouring more money into costly renewables and coal plants are being built at five times the rate that old plants are being decommissioned.	With very few exceptions governments all over the world have fallen into the trap of paying renewable energy scammers on the basis that it is necessary at least politically to be seen to be doing something about climate change Sloan writes before providing readers with an avalanche of economic data to back up her assertion.	The populist backlash a revulsion at top down governments laden with jet setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses has swept America with Trumps election Great Britain with Brexit much of Europe and Australia.	According to the analyst popular opinion against German Chancellor Angela Merkels Energiewende energy transition policies which had doubled electricity prices played no small part in Merkels terrible showing in last months national elections.	The current state of affairs has not only undermined Germanys climate policy but also jeopardizes Germanys international reputation as a climate leader Solomon asserts.	True
In a way that cuts to the heart of everything this administration has done so far when it comes to environmental policy.	As the U.S. Magistrate Judge Laporte noted in her ruling the reason she called for the Obama era rule to be reinstated right away is that the Trump administration cannot give a reasoned explanation as to why its flawed.	U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte of the Northern District of California said Interior had failed to give a reasoned explanation for the changes and had not offered details why an earlier analysis by the Obama administration was faulty.	While the previous administration let science and data drive its climate agenda the Trump administration has had one goal in mind destroying former President Obamas environmental legacy.	The news comes as Donald Trumps Interior Department was in the process of delaying the regulation until 2019 calling it too burdensome to the industry.	True
Annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century more than the current gross domestic product GDP of many U.S. states the report says.	The National Climate Assessment which is mandated by law every few years and is based on more than 1000 previous research studies details how global warming from the burning of coal oil and gas is hurting each region of the United States and how it impacts different sectors of the economy including energy and agriculture.	Climate change is transforming where and how we live and presents growing challenges to human health and quality of life the economy and the natural systems that support us the report says.	Gore left the vice presidents residence with a relatively modest net worth of 1.7 million mostly from family farm assets but since the release of his 2006 documentary An Inconvenient Truth and his continuing global tour to preach his message he has amassed a fortune valued at upward of 200 million.	Unbelievably deadly and tragic wildfires rage in the West hurricanes batter our coasts and the Trump administration chooses the Friday after Thanksgiving to try and bury this critical U.S. assessment of the climate crisis Gore said in a statement that he posted on Twitter Friday.The president may try to hide the truth but his own scientists and experts have made it as stark and clear as possible.	True
Thats equivalent to a gas tax as high as 1.70 per gallon in 2030 to nearly 19 per gallon at the end of the century.	The report calls for societal changes that are unprecedented in terms of scale in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius the stretch goal of the Paris accord.	While the price of carbon is central to prompt mitigation pathways compatible with 1.5 degree Celsius consistent pathways a complementary mix of stringent policies is required reads the IPCCs report.	California and many European countries have policies to price carbon dioxide emissions and mandate green energy including cap and trade systems and carbon taxes.	The IPCCs report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December.	True
I want great climate.	He said Managing the forest is part of it.	At the scene on Saturday Trump recounted a conversation he had in Paris on 11 November with Finlands president Sauli Niinisto who talked about monitoring forest resources with a good surveillance system.	Jerry Brown in the interview aired on Sunday said Changing climate and the increasing drought and the lower humidity and water vapor were important factors.	But on top of that we have this five year drought.	True
As president Ill protect those benefits that fossil fuel workers have earned.	Ill work with Congress to reinstate and then triple the Superfund tax generating needed revenue to clean up the mess.	We need a government thats on the side of familiesnot giant corporations polluting our communities.	In this instance it is the Superfund Waste Tax.	As Ive traveled this country Ive heard the human stories from frontline communities.	False
Experts say that climate change in the region is exacerbating and sometimes causing a miasma of other problems including crop failures and povertyThe Guardian reported in October.	People from all over the world are being forced to migrate because the climate crisis is affecting their livelihood.	The collapse in coffee bean prices has made growing it less profitable forcing migrants to hit the road.	Migrants are fleeing violent corrupt countries with poor economies but some environmentalists and journalists claim global warming is also to blame.	The Guardian also noted that federal data showed a surge in outward migration from western Honduras a prime coffee producing area.	True
The pontiff said that such actions are usually caused by corporations and an elementary sense of justice would require that they be punished for them.	It is a sin against future generations and is manifested in acts and habits of pollution and destruction of the harmony of the environment in transgressions against the principles of interdependence and in the breaking of networks of solidarity between creatures.	Ecocide is to be understood as the loss damage or destruction of the ecosystems of a given territory so that its utilization by inhabitants has been or can be seen as severely compromised he said adding that such a sin is a fifth category of crimes against peace which should be recognised as such by the international community.	In his 2015 encyclical letter on the environment Francis urging nations and individuals to exercise more responsible stewardship of the created world but insisted that he wanted to encourage debate rather than pronounce on environmental issues.	But I am concerned to encourage an honest and open debate so that particular interests or ideologies will not prejudice the common good.	True
Related 250 dead 91 billion in damages 2018 was a catastrophic year for U.S. weather 4th warmest for globe Related Green New Deal Why the GOP secretly likes Democrats' climate change plan Related Climate combat Democrats say Pentagon puts troops at risk by downplaying global warming Trump has touted environmental deregulation and his abandonment of Obama era steps to confront climate change as pillars of his America First economic agenda that has helped spur growth and lift the financial markets.	In early Februaryprogressive Democrats unveiled their Green New Deal to remake the American economy into a social justice model focused on clean energy.	The report is a comprehensive scientificallyrigorouslyanalysisand assessmentif the availableinformationprimarily from the U.S. government Freilich said.	But the public relations war over how to address it is heating up as both sides navigate an issue expected to be a top issue in the 2020 election.	John Kasich who ran against Trump in 2016 is expected to say at a speech Tuesday at the University of British Columbia.	True
The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obamas legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants.	Appearing at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Pruitt said The EPA and no federal agency should ever use its authority to say to you we are going to declare war on any sector of our economy.	Closely tied to the oil and gas industry in his home state Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man man emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change.	Obamas plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030.	The president announced earlier this year that he will pull the United States out of the landmark Paris climate agreement.	True
As such the agency is often the arbiter between oil gas and mining companies seeking access to valuable resources embedded in public lands and environmentalists seeking to protect the same lands for biodiversity wildlife and recreation.	But nine months into his job at the Department of the Interior the federal agency that oversees most public lands and natural resources the act is wearing thin with environmentalists and outdoors enthusiasts who say his early moves demonstrate strong allegiance to the oil gas and other extractive industries seeking access to some of Americas most spectacular protected landscapes.	To make it cheaper for coal companies to strip mine in watersheds and make it more expensive for families to visit Yosemite is a perversion of American values said Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club.	His agency has taken early steps to open the door to oil exploration in Alaskas Arctic National Wildlife Refuge one of the most symbolic and fiercely protected sites of the American environmental movement.	According to a report by the Western Values Project a progressive organization at least 21 of Zinkes political appointees have backgrounds tied to extractive industries.	True
This means more money in our coffers and less greenhouse gas in our atmosphere.	By producing energy in the United States and limiting pollution were making the world safer.	As a just published report from the intelligence community details climate change is a major military issue acting as a threat multiplier which creates the conditions and food scarcity for example breed instability and conflict.	The more we produce the less our European allies have to rely on Russian gas for their power supply.	Extreme weather events made worse by climate change disrupt local communities and weaken the civic institutions that act as a bulwark against terrorists and extremism.	False
They worship at the altar of nihilistic capitalism.	As climate change accelerates and the planet hurdles ever closer to an existential crisis Trump went to a United Nations conference to tout the benefits katowice climate talks cop24.html of fossil fuels.	We are left with no other alternatives.	The job of the next president will be to undo the damage Trump has wrought.	Trump has surrounded himself with people who care far more about the sanctity of fossil fuel profits than the safety of the American people.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	But he added Im also not going to destroy our economy.	On Sunday mornings edition of CNNs State of the Union host Jake Tapper pressed Rubio about the recent United Nations report on climate change which predicts global catastrophe if carbon emissions are not cut dramatically in the next 12 years.	Rubio said that while scientists agree that human behavior is contributing to climate change Icant tell you what percentage of that is due to human activity.	Human society is overwhelmingly responsible for our warming planet.	True
Climate was the No.	Youth Climate Strike and 18 year old activist Jamie Margolin.	On Wednesday she published an op ed outlining how shed target fossil fuel companies and reverse President Donald Trumps assault on environmental regulations during her first 100 days in the White House.	Last week Warren unveiled her Blue New Deal the first comprehensive campaign proposal to revitalize coastal economies by fortifying ports spurring new markets for seafood and completely overhauling the offshore energy industry.	Sanders by contrast has released a 16.3 trillion megaproposal for a Green New Deal that includes everything from creating a public option for electricity to spending nearly 15 billion to encourage worker owned grocery stores.	False
Washington Democratic Gov.	Now Inslees back with an even more urgent message Adopt policies to tackle global warming or there is not survival.	We have just 59 days to do our part to save our children from an endless cycle of crop killing droughts one year and rivers spilling their banks the next Inslee tweeted in January.	Washingtonians are ready to see their elected leaders step up to prevent further harm to our forests our air and our communities.	There is no other option than victory because without victory there is not survival Inslee said at a press conference Monday.	False
Because many cant economically right?	He spoke with NewsHour economics correspondent Paul Solman for Thursdays Making Sene segment on flood insurance.	Dont they override or mightnt they override the kinds of things we as human beings are doing in the short term?	The following excerpt of their interview has been edited for length and clarity.	Just since the start of the industrial revolution weve increased the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by about 40 percent.	True
Alabamas inexpensive land and permissive zoning laws and a federal ban on dumping New Yorkers excrement in the ocean got the poop train chugging experts say.	Nationally the waste and recycling industry generates more than 93 billion in gross revenue annually said Brandon Wright a spokesman for the National Waste Recycling Association.	Its easy for them to zip into a rural or poor community and set up shop and start making a ton of cash he said.	PARRISH Ala. AP A stinking trainload of human waste from New York City is stranded in a tiny Alabama town spreading a stench like a giant backed up toilet and the poop train is just the latest example of the South being used as a dumping ground for other states waste.	It was turned away by North Carolina Alabama Mississippi Louisiana Texas Florida Mexico Belize and the Bahamas.	False
Spokesman Saviano Abreu added that the situation in the northern towns of Macomia and Quissanga was critical while there were also worries for the cut off island of Ibo.	On Sunday a spokesman for UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said he was appealing for additional resources from the international community to fund the response in the immediate medium and longer term.	It's raining again and the second flight couldn't go.	We managed to send one flight with World Food Programme WFP supplies of rice and biscuits and some non food items Mr Abreu told news agency AFP.	Already Pemba the regional capital of Cabo Delgado state has experienced more than 2m 6.5ft of rain and flooding.	False
Congress should address that at some point.	... Those are things so important to citizens of Florida right now and to discuss the cause and effect of these storms there's the... place and time to do that it's not now.	Here's the issue Pruitt told CNN in a phone interview.	My focus has to be on ... these areas that I described he said.	He continued What we need to focus on is access to clean water addressing these areas of superfund activities that may cause an attack on water these issues of access to fuel.	False
The U.S. has become a much richer country.	Because that wealth allows us to take care of people.	I want a wealthy country.	The president on Monday cited the expansion of energy exports under his administration and the opening of drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as ways he has made the country more prosperous.	During the climate meeting leaders approved a 20 million aid package to help Brazil and other South American countries address fires engulfing the Amazon rainforest French President Emmanuel Macron Emmanuel Jean Michel MacronTrump says he's 'an environmentalist' after skipping G 7 climate meeting Trump says he'd meet with Iranians under 'right' circumstances Macron US France reached 'very good agreement' on digital tax MORE said.	True
Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of Energy.	Supporters point outthe project would create more than 500 jobs and pump millions into the local economy over the turbines 25 year lifespan.	They submitted their concerns to theU.S.	Lake Erie Energy Development Corporation the company behind the project also argues it would be a step forward for environmentally friendly energy production.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	True
A huge monument spanning nearly 500000 acres and proclaimed in May 2014.	Roxanne Quimby co founder of Burts Bees cosmetics and her foundation purchased tracts of land in the northern reaches of Maine with the purpose of creating a national park.	The enormous 8.5m acre monument in the south Pacific was declared by Bush in January 2009.	Declared by President George W Bush in 2009 and expanded by Obama in 2014 the monument covers 480000 square miles in marine areas to the south and west of Hawaii.	The area was protected to safeguard an ecosystem of deep sea corals three species of whale and an endangered species of sea turtle the Kemps ridley.	True
Such research requires a faithful reproduction of events and predictions of the future constrained by subjective choices within computer models.	To prepare for the next hurricane the U.S. needs the best weather forecasts evacuation plans and leadership.	These plans should be built on sound science not speculation overselling or exaggeration.	As soon as Hurricanes Harvey and Irma made landfall in the U.S. scientists politicians and journalists began to discuss the role of climate change in natural disasters.	Hurricane science in this political climate already has enough spin.	True
California Gov.	Is there a drought?	Republicans and farmers have complained about management of the smelt population for years because precious water was being pumped out to sea instead of going towards other uses including agriculture.	Hes likely referring to the diverting of water from the Sacramento San Joaquin River Delta into the ocean to protect the delta smelt an endangered fish.	RELATED NYT Claims Global Greening From CO2 Is Terrible Gets Owned State officials said the Carr Fire was sparked in late July by a flat tire on a trailer scraping against the asphalt on a road near Redding California.	False
In the Roosevelt Room of the White House Trump said the United States is blessed with wonderful natural resources including offshore oil and natural gas reserves which can be harnessed to stimulate energy production and job growth.	The move was swiftly condemned by environmentalists but Trump hailed it as a victory for the economy.	This deprives our country of potentially thousands and thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in wealth.	And today were unleashing American energy and clearing the way for thousands and thousands of high paying American energy jobs Trump said before signing the order.	Trumps signing of the America First Offshore Energy Strategy comes a day before the Peoples Climate March an international protest against Trumps energy and environmental policies.	True
Theres not enough money in the world to pay for that Kennedy said.	Thats the main thing about getting to the emmissions goal is just how aggressively we have to act in every different sector of our society.	Theyve said the same thing before Sen. Marco Rubio R Fla. said adding that his responsibility was to balance those interests raised in that report with his states broader economic and security interests.	It hasnt been on my finance agenda or banking agenda Scott said referring to the Senate committees he serves on and the issues on which he focuses his attention.	Coming from a top oil producing stateInhofe has long railed against the IPCC as a biased left wing organization.	True
That is something we need to determine as quickly as possible.	However he pointed to one alarming trend The most volcanism that is going in the world at present is in regions that have only recently lost their glacier covering after the end of the last ice age.	We had not expected to find anything like that number.	He set up the project with the help of Bingham.	We were amazed Bingham said.	True
ORourkes measures include U.S. re entry into the Paris Climate Agreement ordering a reduction in methane emissions from oil and gas operations halting new drilling leases on federal land and restoring pollution standards for power plants.	The greatest threat we face which will test our country our democracy every single one of us is climate change ORourke said in a statement.	The plan lays out a series of executive actions that would reverse the energy dominance policies of President Donald Trump who has been rolling back environmental regulation to increase domestic fossil fuels production.	Reuters U.S. presidential candidate Beto ORourke on Monday laid out one of the most detailed climate policies so far in the crowded Democratic field calling for a 5 trillion investment in clean energy technology and infrastructure over 10 years with a goal of reaching net zero emissions by 2050.	The plan appears to align with some of the principles of the Green New Deal a bold set of policy goals introduced by congressional Democrats that would transform the U.S. energy economy to 100 percent renewable sources by 2030 using federal funds to invest in modern infrastructure and green job programs.	True
As California edges out the United Kingdom to become the fifth largest economy in the world with the state unemployment rate at historic lows sound budgeting and a robust social safety net weve proven that strong climate and clean air policies can go hand in hand with economic growth.	In fact the challenge before us is a case study in market failures to suggest that market based policies on their own will solve this existential challenge is nave at best.	We need all of these tools to be able to reduce pollution drive technological innovation create jobs and expand economic growth all while keeping costs stable for consumers and businesses.	It sends a price signal to industries to reduce their carbon pollution while generating billions of dollars in revenue for investments in clean transportation and direct pollution reduction.	Weve turned clean energy into a pillar of our economy that now employs over half a million Californians ten times the number of Americans employed in the coal industry.	True
This would be dT dt where capital T is temperature and and the lower case is time or congressmans staff if out there thats the problem.	Now its that .1 degree Celsius every decade.	The rate of global warming if it was even detectable at this scale with about .1 degrees celsius every thousand or maybe even every 10000 years.	For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	Bill Nye took on Republican Rep. Thomas Massey who claims to be an electrical engineer but he doesnt understand climate change.	True
Its part of a national campaign from environmental activists to push public officials to say no to money from the coal oil and natural gas industries.	Joining RGGI would be a key way to finance this transition toward cleaner energy with revenue coming from auctioning off carbon credits.	So climate change is likely to remain a key campaign issue for Democrats in the coming elections.	Many are already starting to feel the effects of the melting ice and warming oceans that result from rising average temperatures.	With Congress deadlocked and President Donald Trump pulling the United States out of the Paris climate agreement Virginias election also highlights how the biggest opportunities to curb greenhouse gases are occurring at the state level.	True
Why the push abroad?	The countryscut in domestic coal use comes as they fund coal projects abroad including the Engro mine in the Thar desert.	It provides Chinese firms and investors with opportunities to make money off coal projects at a time when thats less politically popular in China.	The Engro mine for example has 350 Chinese workers and the return on equity for Chinese investors is about 30 percent according to the Salt Lake Tribune.	The country reaffirmed its commitment to its Paris commitments after U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order rolling back global warming regulations in late March.	True
In his Spanish language address to the U.N. agency Francis denounced negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet and the greed for profit.	The yoke of poverty caused by the often tragic movement of migrants can be removed by prevention consisting of development projects that create jobs and offer the capacity to respond to climactic and environmental changes he said.	Ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the prerequisites for dealing with world food security Francis also said.	U.S. President Donald Trump announced the decision in June shortly after visiting the pope a strong supporter of the deal.	Thanks to scientific knowledge we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods such as the Paris Accord which sadly some have abandoned he said.	False
Not only that but many of the Trump administration's early policy decisions prioritised economic growth over environmental protection and Mr Tillerson continues to insist that American climate policy remains under review.	We're going to work to make the right decision for the United States.	Climate change was the biggest issue at the biennial meeting of the Arctic Council in Fairbanks which was overshadowed by the uncertainties over Mr Trump's policy.	Mr Trump is to decide whether the US will leave or reduce its commitments to the Paris agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions which was negotiated by around 200 nations and signed in 2015.	The thrust of the text argues Prof John Walsh chief scientist at the University of Alaska's International Arctic Research Center actually echoes the approach of the Obama administration.	False
This is all just another case of this administration wanting to make good on their political rhetoric and in this case not even wanting to make good for our own automakersMcCarthy now the director of Harvard Universitys Center for Health and the Global Environmenttold HuffPost.	The agency also said it planned to reconsider how climate change factored in to regulation noting that the social cost of carbon and energy security valuation ... should also be updated to be consistent with the literature and empirical evidence.	Despite overwhelmingly supporting the agreement seven years ago carmakers began lobbying then President elect Donald Trump to reverse the Obama ruling almost immediately after the 2016 election.Automakers missed their emissions target for the first time last year even though they achieved record fuel economy in part because the companies boosted production of gas guzzling SUVs.	In January 2017 the Obama administration attempted to lock the regulation in place by issuing a positive assessment of the costs and feasibility of the regulations.	We want one set of standards nationally along with additional flexibility to help us provide more affordable options for our customers.	True
Exxon was made to pay roughly 29 percent of market share which equaled roughly 236372664 at the time of the lawsuit.	Hagens Berman and Sher Edlings dramacomes after New York fileda lawsuit in October against Exxon for allegedly downplaying for decades the risk the companys oil products pose on the climate.	The probe took many twists and turns and seemed to come to a halt shortly after his resignation.RELATEDSEC Investigators Decide Not To Punish Exxon For Alleged Climate Heresy Exxon engaged in a longstanding fraudulent scheme to deceive investors analysts and underwriters concerning the companys management of the risks posed to its business by climate change regulationthe lawsuit notes.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Environmental attorneys Vic Sher and Matt Pawa got intoa multi million dollar legal dispute in 2014 stemming from a lawsuit they both worked on against ExxonMobil.	True
The question for America is pretty simple either we want a bunch of bureaucrats in Washington telling us what we cant do or we empower American innovators to unlock things that we can do the Florida congressman said at a press conference in front of the Capitol building.	The plan comes in response to the Green New Deal a once fringe policy that seeks to overhaul the nations economy and energy use to combat climate change and combat income inequality.	EVIL' His plan which he is putting forward in a House resolutioninvolves a number of planks including revisitingglobal trade and intellectual property policies to create an international marketplace fair to American innovators.	In the press conference Gaetz made references to FAQs released by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs D N.Y. office that said the deal aims to upgrade or replace every building for energy efficiency and render air travel unnecessary while joking about getting rid of farting cows.	I would not call it the greatest crisis no he said.	True
Children are powerful drivers of change because they go home and talk to their parents about it says Zana Kontamanoli.	Like many islands in Greece's Cycladic region waste production on the island of Paros explodes in summer when over 400000 tourists join a local population of just 13000.	You are really exposed to the reality of the situation when you live by the sea says campaigner Zana Kontamanoli.	A shocking 95 of waste in the Mediterranean is plastic.	Not serving bottled water has harmed us admits Andy Kirk owner of Nemobar the first business to sign up to the scheme.	False
The leading candidates are rising atmospheric CO2 levels a result of emissions from human activities longer growing seasons a result of climate change caused by CO2 emissions and nitrogen pollution another result of fossil fuel combustion and agriculture the article also claims.	In other words more carbon dioxide which is being produced by humans at record levels has improved plant growth which in turn improves food production for humans and animals.	Campbell said the evidence shows a fundamental shift in the Earths plants and that global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race.	He says despite the researchers findings which clearly show global warming helps plantsand thus also helping humans and animalsglobal warming has many negative effects too such as causing climate change which will increase flooding of coastal cities extreme weather and ocean acidification.	The study also offered no solutions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions without causing severe economic and social problems for billions of people.	True
This story is part of a group of stories called Vox Sentences is your daily digest for whats happening in the world.	Your daily wrap up for the day in news.	Financial Times Were in a very politically difficult time right now where weve got one key world leader denying climate change so its very hard to get other countries to move forward when youve got such a critical country playing a spoiling role said Ian Fry a delegate from Tuvalu.	Roll Call Michael Macagnone The Council on Foreign Relations Andrew Chatzky explains why the census really matters granting political agency dividing up federal funds and assist private companies in matching their business endeavors with receptive populations.	The news but shorter.	False
Well this is the end result of that decision.	Here are the details of this marathon non debate town hall Id rather fall into a 40000 foot deep man made hole in Russia than watch Democrats tell us how were all going to die in 12 years if we dont get rid of fossil fuels.	We told you last week that the DNC refused to allow their 2020 Democratic candidates to debate the issue of Climate Change.	CNN has announced one massive town hall on Climate Change not massive in crowd size but massive in the amount of time it will take CNN on Tuesday announced the candidate lineup for its unprecedented prime time event focused on the climate crisis.	Ten Democratic presidential hopefuls will appear in New York at back to back town halls on Wednesday September 4 taking audience questions about their climate plans as scientists sound the alarm about global warming.	False
Whatever sales or events occurred in California werecausally insignificantin the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming.	They argue that Exxon and others should pony up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change.	District Judge William Alsup wrote that San Francisco and Oakland failed to prove that global warming would be substantially curtailed if the oil company did not operate inside California.	The three cities claimed billions of dollars worth of damage from global warming induced by fossil fuels.	From all that appears in the amended complaints howeverthis worldwide chain of events Exxons oil production does not depend on a particular defendants contacts with California he said.	False
Although no overseas military installations were listed the report noted the widely recognized impact climate change has on fragile regions particularly in Africa and Asia and the instability and conflict it can create.	And it flagged the way climate change will create new security challenges in the Arctic where melting ice means greater access but also greater international competition for the waterways.	It lists a few projects the defense department has undertaken with partner countries and notes the need to consider how drought and desertification impact overseas bases and missions.	The report acknowledges that the effects of a changing climate are a national security issue with potential impacts to Department of Defense missions operational plans and installations.	And despite the global impact of climate change it didn't list a single US military installation outside the United States.	False
The drought cost the agricultural economy billions killed an estimated 100 million trees led a half million acres of farmland to be fallowed and deprived some communities of reliable sources of drinking water.	The 2015 order led environmentalists to complain that the state which leads the nation in production of fruits and vegetables did too little to force farmers to conserve water.	Conservation must remain a way of life.	LOS ANGELES Reuters One of the worst droughts in California history has officially ended Governor Jerry Brown declared but not before it strained the states farm economy and threatened water supplies for millions of residents.	Brown also said the need for conservation continued.	True
NCAs dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes froma 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors.	The report is not without its controversies.	Wed like to see something that is more data driven.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	Continued use of coal and other fossil fuels will eliminate 10 percent of the GDP by 2100according to the report.	True
By replacing onerous regulations with high yet achievable standards we can continue America's historic energy production keep energy prices affordable and encourage new investments in cutting edge technology that can then be exported around the world said Wheeler.	This is the latest in a series of efforts the Trump administration has taken to help the coal business.	This latest administration effort to boost fossil fuel industries comes as leaders from nearly 200 countries are meeting in Poland to discuss how to keep greenhouse gasses out of the atmosphere.	And amid reports that CO2 emissions are rising again as well as the administration's own report that climate change is causing more severe weather more frequently and could eventually hurt the U.S. economy.	Today's proposal is nothing more than another thoughtless attempt by the Trump Administration to prop up their backwards and false narrative about reviving coal at the expense of science public safety and reality said Mary Anne Hitt senior director of Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign.	True
We can't have a thriving economy if you don't have a healthy clean environment.	This idea that environmental protection and economic growth are contrary are just wrong and we've proven that over the years as we have reduced the pollutants in the air increased the population increased our energy demand and watched our GDP more than double.	And now of course it's coal's inability to compete with natural gas on price for power generation.	The market conditions are what's causing the coal industry to decline and there's not much the President can do to reverse that trend.	We can come up with better ways to provide power to people and still keep jobs.	False
growth in the nation in 2018 according to the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis.	He created a fund for clean energy and the state now has extensive solar energy infrastructure and electric buses.	While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels Washington had the highest G.D.P.	Net zero could mean either eliminating carbon emissions altogether or reducing them and using offsetting technologies to cancel out the rest.	His environmental policy record in his home state is long.	True
The fact that societies practising 'pastoralism' persisted in this region for so long and invested both economically and ideologically in the local landscape does not support the scenario of over exploitation.	We contest the common narrative that past human environment interactions must always be one of over exploitation and degradation.	Pastoralism nomadic or semi nomadic cattle herders blossomed in the Sahara from around 1000 years before that collapse.	It's a good adaptation to the climate change taking place at the time.	Our study shows that increasing human population and sustainable pastoralism did not accelerateand may even have delayedthe decline of the 'Green Sahara'.	True
The cost of this ten year plan?7 trillion.	A scenario where were all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed.	Meanwhile her plans for us are incredibly costly and not just because shes pushing a failed economic system for us to operate under.	Tidal generators beach whales with such frequency that if it were a Republican backed project environmental groups would be having conniptionfits and endless marches.	When pie in the sky thinking meets end of times conspiracy theories we get something like this.	False
But how impactful can individual action be in the absence of systemic changes from the top?	What this means is I don't buy any animal products I try not to create any demand signal for animal products he said.	The content is provided for information purposes only.	The reason everyone's waking up is because there's been this massive grassroots shift over the last year or two he said citing the global youth movement for climate action.	Maassarani is quick to admit that his case falls well outside what most people could envisage and is made possible only by living in what he calls a consumption excessive society.	True
Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a not for profit group promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	The Heartland Institute calls itself a leading free market thinktank.	It rejects decades of science saying fossil fuel emissions are altering the climate and says on its website that curbing use of petroleum and coal to fight climate change would squander one of Americas greatest comparative advantages among the worlds nations.	An email last February shows Bast forwarded to followers an email with the line From the White House rallying activists to public hearings the EPA was then holding around the country on repealing an Obama era power plan meant to curb fossil fuel emissions.	If you send a list we will make sure an invitation is sent Konkus wrote to the then Heartland president Joseph Bast in May 2017 seeking suggestions on scientists and economists the EPA could invite to an annual EPA public hearing on the agencys science standards.	True
This has nothing to do with climate change.	This has to do with active forest management Zinke said.	I've heard the climate change argument back and forth.	We have been held hostage by these environmental terrorist groups that have not allowed public access that have refused to allow the harvest of timber Zinke told Breitbart Monday.	He also acknowledged that temperatures are rising.	False
According to oil market analysts cited by CNBC about 20 percent of the countrys oil refining operations are out of service.	The US produces about 17.5 million barrels of oil per day.	Oil giant Exxon Mobil is among the companies to report incidents of emissions released at its refineries as a result of the hurricane which ransacked coastal parts of Texas and caused widespread flooding in the countrys fourth biggest city Houston.	Kinder Morgan the largest energy infrastructure company in North America stores petroleum products for companies such as Chevron and Shell at its terminal in Pasadena Harris.	The unit was stabilized.	False
He explains how their spread is devastating marine food chains and ecosystems and how illegal fishing of natural jellyfish predators like tuna and turtles has left the coast clear for them to multiply.	It's an idea the UN's Food and Agriculture Organization is encouraging too.	There are at least four times as many jellyfish in the Mediterranean now as there were in 2004 with global climate change pollution and overfishing mostly to blame.	I select my piece.	Join the conversation find us on Facebook Instagram Snapchat and Twitter.	True
His tenure thus far at the EPA is the stuff of corporate wish lists meeting privately with the worst industrial perpetrators of silent violence charitably described as pollution and huddling with industry lobbyists and corporate lawyers who are eager for Pruitt to dismantle his own agency the federal manager of environmental violence to air water soil and food.	The industries that are most responsible for pollution should be in charge of their own enforcement.	Lets be clear about what is at issue here.	History provides precedents of how the boundless zealotry of new wrecking crews ultimately leads to self inflicted wounds and scandals.	Conservative lungs and other bodily organs are as vulnerable to pollution bred terminal ailments and the violent effects of climate change as their liberal counterparts.	False
First unlike smoking energy is a basic good.	According to a study that is often drawn upon to make the case for liability the two largest contributors to the rise in CO2 emissions since 1980 are Saudi Aramco and Gazprom the state owned oil companies of Saudi Arabia and Russia.	Bill de Blasio mayor of New York recently added his city to the list and also started to divest the citys pension funds from fossil fuel companies.	Some form of energy is necessary to do just about anything including to meet essential needs such as heating or cooling a home which in some places is a genuine safety issue.	The Union of Concerned Scientists the activist group that has spearheaded this push for legal action has compared energy companies behavior with that of tobacco companies decades ago.	True
The initial rollout of the Green New Deal a sweeping proposal to overhaul the U.S. economy and taken seriously society itself was supposed to follow a script like this.	Another problem which compounds the first is that they get greedy.	The Green New Deal as presented by Representative Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D. N.Y. includes high quality health care for everyone guaranteed jobs paid vacations a living wage and retirement security.	Following Hollywood convention once you got past the part where the maverick scientist or precocious kid discovering it struggles to convince the world about the threat youd expect the president or the military to leap into action.	The United Nations opened the bidding by announcing last year that we had twelve years to keep the pace of climate change from accelerating too fast to contain the damage.	False
Two days after taking office President Donald Trump signed an executive order reauthorizing the pipeline.	In November 2015 former President Barack Obamas administration blocked the pipelines construction citing potential environmental impact.	TransCanada is blocked from engaging in any activity in furtherance of the construction or operation of Keystone and associated facilities until the State Department can confirm that doing so would not violate the Administrative Procedure Act or the National Environmental Policy Act.	In a 54 page decision Judge Brian Morris of the U.S. District Court in Montana granted an injunction to the Indigenous Environmental Network and Northern Plains Resource Council against the U.S. State Department the TransCanada Keystone Pipeline and the TransCanada Corporation.	Morris had ruled in August that the State Department had to reach a conclusion on the environmental impacts of the pipeline but determined Thursday that the departments analysis had left out information he considered to be crucial.He also accused the State Department of usingoutdated information about potential environmental impacts instead ofthe best scientific and commercial data available.	False
Climate Change.'	Antonio Guterres UN Secretary General said this period of time is'a matter of life and death' for countries around the world.	It found that 2018 is on course to be the 4th warmest year on record and we're the 'last generation to be able to do something about it'.	It read 'What ministers and other leaders say and do in Katowice at COP24 will help determine efforts for years to come and either bring the world closer to meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement including protecting those most vulnerable to climate change or push action further down the road.	'The Paris agreement sent a shiver down the spine of institutional investors globally and made them question if they were exposed to stranded assets and whether these political leaders were really serious about climate change' saidJoseph Curtin a senior fellow at the IIEA.	True
We need a vision and a plan to not willful ignorance.	Those are the options the Trump White House is considering to deal with the overwhelming consensus on climate change.	As the Post noted the Catanzaro memo offers a glimpse into the challenges faced by the Trump administration on the issue of climate change.While White House officials continue to publicly downplay climate data and adopt policies to expand fossil fuel production in the U.S. federal agencies have continued to publish research showing that climate change is real man made and a growing threat to the U.S. On Friday for instance the National Park Service published a report that said the effects of climate change like rising sea levels and intensifying stormscould damage park sites across the country.	Ignore distort or censor.	Citing an internal memo drafted in September by President Donald Trumps then top energy and environmental aide Michael Catanzaro the Post reported that White House officials had discussed whether to consider having a firm position on and a coherent fact based message about climate science specifically whether and to what extent anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases are affecting the climate system and what level of concern that warrants.	True
SteveGorehamis a speaker on the environment business and public policy and author of thebookOutside the Green Box Rethinking Sustainable Development.	But against that negative we must weigh this positive Our industrial revolution and the development of our modern world have literally been fueled by oil and coal.	Oceans are rising 7 8 inches per century not the 20 feet per centurypredictedby former Vice President Al Gore and others.	New York Citysoughtmonetary damages from BP Chevron Conoco Phillips ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell as compensation for damage caused by dangerous global warming allegedly caused by the companies.	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	False
A clause in a communique signed by the member nations says the US reiterates its decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and affirms its strong commitment to economic growth and energy access and security utilizing all energy sources and technologies while protecting the environment.	American strength flows from American energy and as it turns out we have a lot of American energy.	Sides with Russia Saudi Arabia and Kuwait at climate conference Considering Trump announced the US would walk away from the Paris climate agreement which brought together the rest of the world it's no surprise the US continues to be an outlier on the international stage.	Washington CNN Since the Trump administration released its blockbuster report on the day after Thanksgiving outlining the dire environmental and economic impacts of climate change it has made a series of policy and diplomatic decisions or statements that appear to run counter to all of the warnings in the report.	Countries were asked to welcome the report put out by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change which says governments around the world must take rapid far reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society to avoid disastrous levels of global warming.	False
Who knows what a frog is worth?	If we made those decisions you can see under different administrations we would end up protecting nothing.	Mr Dreher says that the ESA was designed by Congress to say that the value of life on earth is priceless and that politicians should not have to decide whether it is too expensive to prevent extinction.	Because who knows what a snail is worth?	If these regulations had been in place in the 1970s the bald eagle and the grey whale would be extinct today.	False
during the UN General Assembly this year.	By lunchtime the hashtag was trending on the social media platform with one popular response reading 'A 16 year old with Asperger's and non native English speaker has better social and communications skills than the current President of the United States.	During the 2016 campaign he claimed it was a 'hoax' promoted by China in order to gain economic advantage over the United States.	Time editor in chief Edward Felsenthal told the Today show 'She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement.'	The magazine says 'In the 16 months since she has addressed heads of state at the U.N. met with the Pope sparred with the President of the United States and inspired 4 million people to join the global climate strike on September 20 2019 in what was the largest climate demonstration in human history.'	False
Gov.	California is expected to receive about 8 billion in fiscal years 2019 and 2020.	The Trump administration has been picking fights with California over environmental regulations recently.	Gavin Newsom has been critical of President Trump's environmental record and challenged the administration in court.	I just think it's so ironic that the EPA is chastising California which has been so progressive in working towards cleaner air more than any other place in the country says Janet McCabe who was an EPA official during the Obama administration and now directs Indiana University's Environmental Resilience Institute.	False
Its proved time and time again to be not politically popular and we havent even priced the policy at where economists say it needs to be.	President Emmanuel Macros had originally proposed a slew of new carbon taxes intended to wean consumers off fossil fuels and transition to electric vehicles.	The price hikes however triggered a wave of intense riots.	Some conservatives have signed on to the idea believing it to be a market based approach to eliminating pollution.	RELATED Keep It In The Ground Activists Stormed Trump Administrations Event At UN Meeting Activists will instead focus on other causes near and dear to the environmental movement such as pushing energy standards that mandate a total transition to clean and renewable energy.	False
While rising temperatures have certainly put a strain on species in some parts of the world a new study by researchers at the University of Southern Denmark suggests animals in the Arctic region are thriving as because of higher global temperatures.	Proponents of the theory humans are primarily responsible for rising global temperatures long claimed wildlife are harmed significantly by global warming and that unless mankind stops producing significant amounts of carbon dioxide emissions the worlds animals will not be able to thrive.	this affords ample proof that new sources of warmth have been opened and give us leave to hope that the Arctic Seas may at this time be more accessible than they have been for centuries past and that discoveries may now be made in them not only interesting to the advancement of science but also to the future intercourse of mankind and the commerce of distant nations.	As reported by Anthony Watts on his influential climate change website Watts Up With That the president of the Royal Society in London reported in 1817 significant reductions to arctic sea ice.	It will without doubt have come to your Lordships knowledge that a considerable change of climate inexplicable at present to us must have taken place in the Circumpolar Regions by which the severity of the cold that has for centuries past enclosed the seas in the high northern latitudes in an impenetrable barrier of ice has been during the last two years greatly abated.	False
We need to be resilient and adapt.	A massive infrastructure project called MOSE has been under way since 2003 to protect the city but it has been plagued by cost overruns corruption scandals and delays.	Tourists are taking pictures but the city is suffering.	Residents whose houses had been hit would immediately get up to 5000 euros in government aid while restaurant and shop owners could receive up to 20000 euros and apply for more later he said.	The damage it's causing to monuments and the people is worrying she said wondering if climate change was to blame.	True
And to me the answer is innovation.	Even Milton Friedman understood the existence of market externalities the fact that damage to our environment is not accounted for in the free market without placing some sort of price signal.	The most popular solution among economists is putting a tax on carbon emissions.	Economist Milton Friedman the so called patron saint of laissez faire capitalism who popularized the belief that corporations should pursue profit and shareholder value above all argued there is little incentive to preserve the environment without some form of government intervention.	Obviously policy and technology interact and cannot be seen in isolation with policy stimulating technological deployment and rapid roll out reducing the future level of policy required.	False
Erosion of fertile topsoil deforestation of the rainforest toxic air pollution loss of insects and wildlife acidification of our oceans these are all disastrous trends said Thunberg barely able to keep her tears back.	Climate change is our reality and youth activists like Greta are doing everything within their power to work against it and demand a change Gonzlez wrote.	RELATED Another Canadian Province Boots Liberals Out Of Power Over Carbon Taxes Environmentalists even some climate scientists are increasingly promoting Thunbergs actions in an effort to draw more young people into climate activism.	American student activists led by the daughter of Democratic Minnesota Rep. Ilhan Omar demanded a Green New Deal the legislation sponsored by New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez.	The teenager warned in a high profile speech to the United Nations last year that we need to keep the fossil fuels in the ground or face catastrophe.	True
The Cuyahoga River Love Canal when there was no environmental protection.	President Barack Obama relied heavily on administrative action as Republicans controlled Congress for most of his presidency and resisted passing laws that favored environmental protections over companies.	He wrote that industry groups showed clearly that they would face economic harm if logging was banned in the area.	The effect is to take away an agency's powers to deal with real world problems.	There are also cases where he found that industrial groups have standing to oppose environmental restrictions.	True
However the reports authors warned that future warming could exacerbate extreme weather and hurt the global economy.	The New York Times highlighted the IPCCs warning of a world of worsening food shortages and wildfires and a mass die off of coral reefs as soon as 2040.	For example The Washington Posts write up of the IPCCs report focused on the mainline findings namely that the world is woefully off target to keep future global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	RELATED Its The Final Chance We Have To Stop Global Warming Until The Next Chance When it comes to droughts for example the IPCC admits there is low confidence in the sign of drought trends since 1950 at global scale.	The report says there are likely to be trends in some regions of the world including increasing droughts in the Mediterranean and decreasing droughts in parts of North America.	True
The global economys overshoot of ecological limits and increasingly climate change are driving a global fresh water scarcity crisis and the sixth mass extinction of species which could devastate much of life on earth for the next ten million years the resolution warns.	Climate change population growth and growing demand for food energy and fresh water will incite violent conflict over diminishing resources by the year 2030 the document also forecasts with remarkable confidence.	Climate change has been linked to the Syrian War the rise of Boko Haram in Nigeria as well as the famines water shortages and resulting conflict in Yemen Somalia and South Sudan the document pronounces.	The United States of America has disproportionately contributed to the climate and ecological crises and to preventing a transition away from fossil fuels and Americans thus bear an extraordinary responsibility to solve the crises the text reads.	The City of Berkeley calls on the United States of America to initiate a just national mobilization emergency effort to reverse global warming which ends national greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible and immediately initiates an effort to safely draw down carbon from the atmosphere the text boldly proposes.	True
We know that fighting climate change will reduce costs and create millions of jobs.We have the knowledge and technology needed to prevent future catastrophes.By doing so we will create broad prosperity cleaner air and water cheaper energy for all and most importantly we will save lives.	We face an existential threat and in the face of this your specious economic arguments and lame fossil fuel endorsed excuses fall flat.	This is a time for action action to care for our fellow citizens in the face of disaster and action to prevent a systemic worsening of the climate crisis by heeding the warning and doing what is right.	The catastrophe unfolding in Houston is yet another stark warning.People are losing their homes and their jobs.	Tragically no industry has done more to block crucial action to address climate change than the oil industry.	True
We think wererational but where green policy is concerned were little better than the Aztecs Oh and by the way the way were carrying on Western Civilization is on its way out	This gives you an idea of just how badly infected are the nations of the free world by the green virus.	Butyou rarely hear itsotrenchantly expressed by a former world leader as it was in London yesterday by Aussie ex Prime Minister Tony Abbott in ahard hitting must read speech for the Global Warming Policy Foundation.	Abbott himself lost his job as Australias prime minister at least in part because he was found guilty of wrongthink onclimate change which he once famously described as crap.The man who replaced him as prime minister Malcolm Turnbull unfondly known as the Honourable Member for Goldman Sachs is himself a leading tentacle of the Green Blob.	When the wind doesnt blow and the sun doesnt shine the power doesnt flow.	False
The simple moral truth is that United States is by far the worlds largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it they added.	We view science as a way to deepen our appreciation and wonder at the majesty of Gods creation including the complex beautiful and life sustaining planet earth.	inan op edpublished by the Missoulian Thursday for failing to understand climate changes role in a widespread fish kill in Yellowstone National Park last summer.	We cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment said the church leaders the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co Cathedral.	The church leaders slammed Daines for having the audacity to challenge the overwhelming scientific consensus that emissions from farms and burning fossil fuels are trapping heat in the atmosphere and causing the planet to warm.	False
I was fighting back against corporate greed and this constant disregard for public health.	Ocasio Cortez meanwhile has proposed a new congressional committee to develop a plan to transition the US economy away from fossil fuels reduce the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and promote economic and environmental justice and equality.	As a Michigan state legislator Tlaib fought to reduceair and water pollution in Detroit and put environmental justice at the center of her campaign.	That promise falls short of what Ocasio Cortez Tlaib and the Sunrise Movement protesters seeknamely the creation of a so called Green New Dealbut the attention has started a conversation between the new members and their partys longtime leader.	Climate change has been a key issue for both Tlaib and Ocasio Cortez.	True
Compounding the gaffe the Carbon Capture Coalition's membership includes the country's largest fossil fuel companies not such strange bedfellows for Biden who received a D grade from Greenpeace last week largely due to his lack of environmental policy but less than ideal for a candidate trying to reinvent himself as green.	At least three passages from the climate plan Biden's campaign released on Tuesday were copied directly from environmental organizations CREDO activist Josh Nelson tweeted posting original text from the Carbon Capture Coalition and the Blue Green Alliance alongside text from Biden's campaign website.	Like this story?	Biden's habit of plagiarism dates back to his first presidential campaign in 1988 when he lifted a popular speech from a UK politician that mischaracterized his own family background implyinghe was descended from coal miners and the first in his family to attend university.	Biden's campaign waited the better part of a day to address the charges as the news spread buoyed by anger at the candidate over news he'd lied about marching in the civil rights movement finally telling Business Insider that while they had inadvertently left out several citations from the final version of the document posted to the website it had been updated to include references.	False
Together we have worked with local grassroots activists and partners in the nations most vulnerable communities to secure the retirement of 259 dirty power plants and the promise of a brighter future putting at the center of our work a transition that leaves no one behind and that demands good paying family sustaining jobs for workers who depended on the fossil fuel economy Brune said.	Instead of Obamas stifling energy regulations the Trump administration will promote policies thatfavorAmerican energy dominance.	Our clean energy future is now.	Our movement is growing and our momentum is unstoppable.	All of this and were just getting started.	True
Its based on modeling.	Among threats to health and the environment the report also warned that sweeping damage would cut off as much as 10 percent of the U.S. economy.	The 1656 page reportcompiled by 13 federal agencies and more than 300 researchers painted the bleakest portrait of the future United States yet noting that the country had already warmed 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit over the past century and will warm a further 3 degrees by 2100 unless fossil fuel use is scaled back.	... Its not data driven White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said at a news briefing Tuesday.	Its not based on facts.	False
However with a Trump administration it will be if allowed.	Obviously the chart showed that as greenhouse gas emissions go up so does the temperature.	With what basically amounts to a humanitarian crisis going on in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria it cannot be ignored any longer.	Merkley displayed a chart composed by NASA that showed the relationship between rising temperatures and rising greenhouse emissions.	Fortunately for the country and the world there are some Democrats who will do their best to stop the Republican party from destroying the Earth with their own blatant ignorance.	False
Claim 1 Solar grew by 90 percent in the last two years.	No other state experienced the same level of growth over this period.	Claim 3 From 2005 to 2017 this country has reduced emissions by 14 percent claimed Perry.	Claim 4 When I first met you you were running for president the Department of Energy was one of the federal agencies that you thought was maybe extraneous said Cannon.	So were seeing this really great growth in these renewables claimed Perry.	True
I don't want to lose millions and millions of jobs.	I will say this I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars.	But that doesnt mean we have to put one of our businesses out of business.	The report detailed how Earth's weather health and ecosystems would be in better shape if the world's leaders could somehow limit future human caused warming.	Trump's comments came just days after a Nobel Prize winning Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change issued a warning that global warming would increase climate related risks to health livelihoods food security water supply human security and economic growth.	False
They examined the lives of billionaire businessmen Richard Branson Elon Musk and Bill Gates in addition to Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Hillary Clinton.	Progressives across the country and around the world expressed outrage this week over Trumps decision to withdraw from the agreement.	Carlson explained on his show Friday that despite the fact that those upset about Trumps decision have not bothered to explain whats actually in the Paris agreement they assure us that that deal is the solution to the single most gravest threat this planet has ever faced rising levels of atmospheric CO2.	Branson says fossil fuels are dangerous and he calls Trumps decision America first Earth last.	Hillary Clinton tweeted that Trumps pullout was a historic mistake that leaves American workers and families behind.	True
The conclusion?	Climate change has become the biggest environmental issue of our time so its worth looking at things from an emissions standpoint.	Back in 2011 Britains Environment Agency conducted a life cycle assessment of various bag options looking at every step of the production process.	Making a cotton shopping bag is hardly cost free.	Growing cotton requires a fair bit of energy land fertilizer and pesticides which can have all sorts of environmental effects from greenhouse gas emissions to nitrogen pollution in waterways.	True
Ill only pay for nights I use it but need it held vacant all other nights wrote Shaub who has become a frequent critic of what he sees as ethical lapses in the Trump administration.	has certified that these are standard terms at market rate so it shouldnt matter to you that I dont run EPA.	In December Pruitt and members of his staff spent about 40000 in taxpayer funds to fly to Morocco to help encourage the North African kingdom to import liquefied natural gas from the United States.	In October EPA announced it would rewrite the Clean Power Plan an Obama era regulation that sought to limit planet warming carbon emissions from coal fired power plants like those operated by OGE which paid Harts firm 400000 in lobbying fees in 2017.	Minolis memo says the 50 a night rate would total 1500 for 30 nights a month which he deemed to be a fair price.	True
What's the latest on the ground?	Australia may see 50C days 'in decades' The government has been criticised over its efforts to address climate change.	Mr Fitzsimmons said There is an absolute lack of moisture in the soil a lack of moisture in the vegetation... you are seeing fires started very easily and they are spreading extremely quickly and they are burning ridiculously intensely.	What could be wiped out by temperature rise Hundreds of bushfire survivors and farmers converged on the nation's capital Canberra this week in protest.	The BOM says that climate change has led to an increase in extreme heat events and raised the severity of other natural disasters such as drought.	True
Absolutely American absolutely democratic they reflect us at our best rather than our worst.	When Congress and the executive branches of government failed to appropriate funding in 1998 and 2013 the government shut down for extended periods and the national parks were closed to the public.	This story was originally published bytheGuardian.	Now left unattended and gathering trash and human waste the Trump administration has let them reflect us at our worst.	The logic was that if the employees were furloughed and could not perform their stewardship and safety responsibilities then the only way to meet the requirements of unimpaired was to close the parks.	False
So what will replace corn on Iowa's fertile land?	They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes most of them bad for growing corn.	5 Major Crops In The Crosshairs Of Climate Change Climate change is coming like a freight train or a rising tide.	By 2100 the Corn Belt is going to be in Canada not in the United States says Jason Clay senior vice president for food and markets at the World Wildlife Fund.	Russia which is already a major wheat exporter may be able to expand the amount of land devoted to this crop.	True
Tadzio Mueller a German organiser of the movement argues that massively breaking the rules ... is the only thing that works to prevent the status quo in the face of climate chaos.	What risks do protesters take?	This is reflected in demand for training courses everywhere and by the very rapid rise in skills of new activists.	Here is a look at this growing form of environmental activism.	Azna Lecuyer of the French branch of Ende Gelaende agrees that we feel a passion for actions of civil disobedience especially among young people.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	Trump's ultimate goal is to roll back improvements President Obama made that limit the pollution coal plants produce.	Trump wants to toss out the Obama era rules with ones that allow older coal plants to stay in business longer and continue risking lives by spewing particulates into the air.	Obama's rules would have reduced the amount of dangerous particulate matter in the air by gradually moving energy production to cleaner forms of energy and shutting down older dirtier coal plants.	The rules will be favorable to dirty energy producers like the coal industry an industry that Trump's EPA chief Andrew Wheeler used to lobby for.	False
This was part ofa wider war on the Green Blob which has also involved withdrawing from the UNs Paris climate accord.	Even within his own cabinet there are numerous siren voices Javanka Secretary of State Tillerson Economics advisor Gary Cohn urging Trump to maintain his predecessors disastrous green policies.	Since carbon dioxide is a natural by product of almost every industrial process the knock on damage to the U.S economy in the form of lost jobs and higher energy prices would have been huge.	So while its good news that the CPP will probably never be implemented the bad news is how difficult it is even for a determinedly skeptical president like Trump to unravel environmental regulation.	In 2016 when it launched the plan at Obamas behest the EPA declared that theClean Power Plan was a vital cost effective way of combating climate change which would ultimately benefit the U.S. consumer.	False
The boom in people brings an increase in cars and trucks on the roads and many of those people live in valleys and basins right where pollution tends to settle.	The bad news about air pollutionspread nationwide in thereport Smog and soot choked air is worsening amid heat waves and bigger wildfires as environmental protections are rolled back.	The bad news came fromthe American Lung Association's annual State of the Air report which covers the years 2015 2017.	About 141 million Americans live with unhealthful levels of air pollution the report says placing them at risk for premature death lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	The report covers the two main types of air pollution that plague the USA smog also known as ground level ozone and soot technically known as particulate matter.	True
Over2 million new passenger vehicles were sold and registered in the nations most populous state last year more thanthan the entire nations of Spain France and Italy.	China plans to endsales of combustion enginevehicles in 2030.	Nichols said referring to Chinas planned phase out of fossil fuel vehicle sales.	Other countries like France and the U.K. plan to follow suit a decade later.	Instituting such a policy in California would affect the entire car industry globally due to the massive size of Californias car market.	True
It isa direct impact of the climate crisis.	Climate Justice.	No more coal no more oil keep your carbon in the soil and Waters are rising people are dying.	The youths held signs that read Greed Kills Help My Home is on Fire and 527 Years of Indigenous Resistance and chanted in between speeches phrases such as What do we want?	When do we want it?	False
Its a matter of survival former Kiribati President Anote Tong said after meeting with former U.S. President Barack Obama that year.	The study findings may seem counter intuitive given that sea level has been rising in the region over the past half century but the dominant mode of change over that time on Tuvalu has been expansion not erosionKench said in February.	The study published in the journal WIREs Climate Change in September adds to the growing evidence that small island nations in the Pacific and Indian Oceans are proving resilient to rising seas in the face of predictions they may eventually become uninhabitable.	That warning was made in 1988 amid heightened urgency about global warming.	When the United Nations met in 2015 to hash out the Paris climate accord Kiribati joined other island nations in calling for an international agreement to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	False
However those financial gains for Musk depend on higher energy taxes for the nations established manufacturing sectors especially in Midweststates.Breitbart described the economic impact of the climate agreement Unsurprisingly Musk is a strong advocate for growing carbon taxes on natural fuels.	The problem is the age old tragedy of the commons.	The shift in government policy likely will force Musk and his investors to revamp his sprawling business empire which relies on government subsidies and on preferencesfor solar energy over natural fuels.	The common good being consumed is atmospheric and oceanic carbon capacity which currently has a price of zero.	This can be offset by a reduction in other taxes like sales tax which is quite regressive.	True
We can create millions of good paying jobs.	Please dont tell me that we cannot take on the fossil fuel industry.	I have a plan for a green industrial policy that takes advantage of the fact that we do what we do best and that is innovate and create.	Montana Gov.	It outlines a vision for economic infrastructure and clean energy investment while aggressively ramping down to net zero emissions as soon as possible.	False
Want climate news in your inbox?	Sign up here for Climate Fwd our email newsletter.	This rule supports the administrations objective of facilitating energy dominance by encouraging increased domestic oil and gas production and reducing unnecessary burdens on stakeholders while ensuring safety and environmental protection the new rule says.	The Interior Departments Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement which was established after the spill in the Gulf of Mexico and regulates offshore oil and gas drilling has finalized a proposal for loosening the regulations as part of President Trumps efforts to ease restrictions on fossil fuel companies and encourage domestic energy production.	WASHINGTON The Trump administration has completed its plan to roll back major offshore drilling safety regulations that were put in place after the Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster in 2010 that killed 11 people and caused the worst oil spill in American history.	True
Wouldnt be bad to have a little of that good old fashioned Global Warming right now!	Large parts of the Country are suffering from tremendous amounts of snow and near record setting cold.	President Trump Donald John TrumpSunday shows preview Shutdown negotiations continue after White House immigration proposal Rove warns Senate GOP Don't put only focus on base Ann Coulter blasts Trump shutdown compromise We voted for Trump and got Jeb!	The current winter storm prompted the governor of Kansas to declare a state of emergency canceled thousands of flights and dumped more than a foot of snow across most of upstate New York.	A government report issued late last yearconcluded that climate change could cost the United States billions of dollars annually within decades if greenhouse gases arent dramatically reduced and could worsen environmental disasters like wildfires and flooding.	False
It could prove to be an example of how emerging economies can grow while slashing their carbon emissions.	But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	A healthy and environmentally sustainable future requires more than just switching from dirty coal to wind or solar power.	The overall direction if not the magnitude and rate of change laid out in the report is not just possible but essential both financially and environmentally.	But first the state must overcome its addiction to coal writes Nityanand Jayaraman.	False
But Gov.	It's the damage we are doing to the planet one Twitter user noted in response to the Now This video.	Climate change is real one Twitter user wrote.	Elections have consequences.	But don't we have a responsibility to mitigate the next disaster?	False
So you really cant say the sky is falling.	Miller suggested that the Endangered Species Act would be the first environmental issue to take the stage on a Kennedy less court A dispute over the endangered dusky gopher frog Weyerhaeuser v. US Fish and Wildlife Service FWS is now on the courts docket in the fall.	At the same time it had already started to chip away at EPAs power to regulate greenhouse gasses in 2016 by halting enforcement of the Obama administrations Clean Power Plan aimed at curbing emissions from power plants.	So there was no majority opinion.	Further down the road experts expect a fight over which of the nations waterways are actually protected under the Clean Water Act to return to the Supreme Court which sent lawsuits on this issue to district courts in January.	False
Of six different options global warming and climate change performed the worst beaten handily by climate crisis environmental destruction weather destabilization and environmental collapse.	Egoism and self interest have turned creation a place of encounter and sharing into an arena of competition and conflict he said.	Now is the time to abandon our dependence on fossil fuels and move quickly and decisively towards forms of clean energy and a sustainable and circular economy.	Let us make an effort to change and to adopt more simple and respectful lifestyles!	Deterioration has increased in recent decades constant pollution the continued use of fossil fuels intensive agricultural exploitation and deforestation are causing global temperatures to rise above safe levels he said.	True
For natural gas companies its a threat to their existence.	Its the only thing that people ever ask about Bruce Nilles who directs the building electrification program of the Rocky Mountain Institute a Colorado based think tank that focuses on energy and resource efficiency said in the USA Today report.	But the page linked to on the U.S. Energy Information Administration EIA website is referring ironically to CO2 emissions from the U.S. electric power sector by source for 2018.	USA Today reported that people believe the move is necessary to fight climate change with an eye toward creating fewer legacy gas hookups as the nation shifts to carbon neutral energy sources.	The clean burning properties of natural gas have contributed to increased natural gas use for electricity generation and as a transportation fuel for fleet vehicles in the United States.	False
One is a critical rate of change corresponding to the rate at which CO2 is added to the oceanatmosphere system.	Those who point to discrepancies in the global warming narrative have also noted that many of the solutions offered by climate change advocates do very little to actually stop carbon emissions and turn back the clock.	Daniel Rothman told the publication that we are approaching a threshold of catastrophe in the carbon cycle similar to that of the five previous periods of mass extinction over the last 540 million years.	Rothman says thatdecreasing carbon emissions would be the best way to try to avoid the catastrophe.	According to Digital Trends a mass extinction eventis an event in which a large number of species become extinct at once as was the case with the death of thedinosaurs65 million years ago.	False
To avert climate chaos we need to challenge the free market fundamentalism that has conquered the world since the 1980s.	As Naomi Klein argues even the rights fervent conspiracy theorists tend to understand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are for business as usual which has distributed its profits among elites of both parties.	The Green New Deal promises a well paid job for everyone who wants one a real mass transit system clean and affordable energy and universal healthcare a necessity as people leave their jobs to find new work in the transition away from fossil fuels.	Members of Trumps cabinet Klein has written donald trump tax cuts climate change republican ideology capitalism with their desperate need to deny the reality of global warming or belittle its implications nonetheless understand something that is fundamentally true.	As the New York Times reported in its article on the White Houses new climate plans both Happer and John Bolton who tapped him for the administration have received generous support from the Mercers the rightwing family credited with both spreading climate denial and helping fuel the opioid epidemic.	False
Now instead of independent science guiding the way hired guns for industry will be steering EPA policy on central issues affecting clean air clean water and public health.	The trash incinerator industry provides only a tiny fraction of U.S. power but wields outsize influence in some cities and hasattempted to sabotage the U.S. Conference of Mayors effort to push for 100 percent renewable energy.	For many scientists working in a time of limited research budgets funding from the EPA or other government agencies is one of the few sources available other than industry money.	When it comes to advice the agency receives the core concern over the need to avoid conflicts of interest is this Is advice tainted because the entity employing and paying the advisor stands to gain or lose financially from the agency decision that is under advisement?	For Pruitt anything that helps corporate polluters make money is good and science and facts are just roadblocks he wants to tear down.	False
All we're saying is it shouldn't cost thousands of manufacturing jobs raise the gas tax by 20 cents a gallon to start out with and raise natural gas prices for people who heat their home by almost 50 percent.	The cap and trade program intended to rein in industrial carbon emissions lost traction even with the state's Democratic senators according to Courtney sparking protesters who were initially demanding that Republicans return to the floor for a vote to begin chantingPeter Courtney's got to go.	Critics say it would hurt the business community and exacerbate a divide between liberalurban areas and conservative rural parts of the state.	Thosematters need to be resolved before the Legislative session ends at the end of the week.	We think there's a better way to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and so were holding out Knopp said.	False
Trump said the deal transferred wealth from the U.S. to economic rivals like China and India.	Trump said the Paris agreement was poorly negotiated and would harm the U.S. economy.	Throughout much of the 2016 campaign then candidate Donald Trump railed against corporate and global elitists who want to dictate their liberal agenda onto the American public with no understanding of how such liberal policies would harm our economy and the Americanpeople.	Now a new report sheds some more light into why President Trump rejected the globalist scam and its incrediblespecifically he wanted to stick it to holier than thou elites in America specifically leftists who flyaround in private jets drive SUVs and live in massive mansions yet lecture Americans about their environmental impact.	President Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal is a giant middle finger to elitists all around the world who want America to suffer simply to promote their global warming alarmism.	True
It should be one that centers on quality institutions and policies that leverage competition and consumer choice.	An analysis of President Obamas environmental legacy by the American Action Forum found the negative effect of regulations on economic growth led to forgone environmental benefits richer economies tend to value clean air more and emit less relative to production and led to regulations that were about half as effective as claimed on paper.	It would be a return to conservative basics where industries and technologies excel on their merits not political popularity.	In so doing conservatives will advance the American economy and their political interests well into the future.	Conservatives sorely need to define an energy narrative rooted in market principles.	False
And as Browns plan begins to drive water consumption down Woodling said it could hurt the economy.	John Woodling of the Sacramento Regional Water Authority told the Sacramento Bee that Browns assertion of state power in this area will give it permanent unchecked control over local water management decisions.	Certainly Californians and everyone else ought to find ways to responsibly use natural resources such as water.	Its time for these conservation regulations to be lifted and for the state to do what it should have done a long time ago look to expand its water supply.	California ought to begin expanding its water supply rather than incessantly regulate how citizens use water especially now that the governor doesnt retain the broad powers spelled out under the drought state of emergency Browns flood state of emergency doesnt give him the same power to regulate water use.	True
Last month Representative Kevin Cramer a Republican from oil gas and coal rich North Dakota wrote The U.S. should present a new pledge that does no harm to our economy.	That view is also backed by economists at the Heritage Foundation the conservative think tank that has supplied the Trump administration with many of its policy proposals.	Cancel the Paris climate treaty and any other agreements entered into unilaterally and without the consent of Congress Mr. Hamm wrote in a letter to Mr. Trump before his inauguration.	In response Peter Trelenberg the manager of environmental policy and planning at Exxon Mobil wrote to Mr. Banks Exxon Mobil supports the Paris agreement as an effective framework for addressing the risks of climate change.	What we say to the White House is that its clearly a terrible agreement for the American people said Tim Phillips the president of Americans for Prosperity.	True
These might include the development of profitable industries for trade with Earth or experimenting with new technologies that might have applications for life on Earth.	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	There are several dangers that would face the colonists.	But what should happen after that first step?	It will be essential that we map and evaluate all possible resources that could be useful.	False
Corporate America is doing its part.	When private enterprise is free to experiment and innovate we see a stronger economy and a real commitment to environmental action.	As always free market forces outperform the unfunded mandates and taxpayer funded job killing enforcement bureaucracies of Big Government.	They referred to the irreversible agreement as a vital instrument for our planet societies and economies.	The decline in U.S. carbon emissions is a testament to the free markets enduring power.	True
It calls for the creation of millions of new high wage jobs to help wipe out poverty.	We'll probably lose 10 to 15 of our GDP.	The deal describes a 10 year economic mobilization that would overhaul the nation's infrastructure and build new layers into the existing social safety net.	He said guaranteed jobs free to those who don't want to work probably cost 45 trillion.	The deal proposes guaranteeing a job with a family sustaining wage adequate family and medical leave paid vacations and retirement security to all people of the United States.	False
With continued growth in emissions at historic rates annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century more than the current gross domestic product GDP of many U.S. states according to the assessment.	And Trump has appointed a number of officials like Craft whose allegiance to industry is clear.	The facts of climate science and the urgency of the climate threat to the US are a nuisance to an administration that has consistently prioritized the demands of the fossil fuel industry to roll back federal policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions.	The report goes on to detail the toll climate change has already taken on health quality of life and the economy of the US and how those impacts will mount if emissions are not dramatically reduced in the coming years.	Asked Do you believe in climate change?	True
We set a goal to get to net zero rather than zero emissions in 10 years because we arent sure that well be able to fully get rid of farting cows and airplanes that fast reads the initial version of the resolutions fact sheet.	The Obama administration released a plan to clamp down on methane emissions in 2014 which included programs to cut emissions from dairy operations.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The question then becomes How do you eliminate emissions from cows sheep and other animals?	Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs newly released Green New Deal resolution has gotten a lot of attention for its 100 percent renewable energy goal but the bill also vaguely references another source of emissions.	False
Trade Renegotiate NAFTA.	Work with businesses.	Education Establish universal pre K education.	Provide two free years of higher education.	Reconstitute U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE.	False
Concern about rising sea levels was one of many factors that inspired the Paris Agreements goal of limiting the rise of global temperatures.	The group states that although this specific crack was not likely caused by climate change the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves contributes to rising sea levels that threaten coastal cities.	The growth spurt between May 25 and May 31 was the largest they have observed since January Project MIDAS says and the inevitable splintering of Ice Shelf C will drastically alter the landscape of the continent and will make the ice that remains less stable.	Rising sea levels endanger heavily populated cities such as New York San Francisco New Orleans and Miami and are predicted to cause 13.1 million Americans to relocate from coastal areas by 2100.	Photo John SonntagNASA via AP In the six days before President Trump announced his decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change an enormous crack in an Antarctic ice shelf grew 11 miles according to a report by British Antarctic research group Project MIDAS.	True
Scientists say governments businesses and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming fishing forestry mining or infrastructure development.	Among the list of the biggest threats to food and water security were pollution climate change and deforestation.	Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have.	It also found 42 of land based animal and plant species in Europe and Central Asia have declined in the last decade.	Fortunately the evidence also shows that we know how to protect and partially restore our vital natural assets.	False
The forest products industry is worth 400 billion a year.	The US southeast is already experiencing repeated droughts it is already experiencing heatwaves it is the last place to plant a eucalyptus plantation.	This technology is worth billions of dollars a year.	If you can increase yields by 40 percent you can greatly reduce prices.	Eucalyptus trees are the number one industrial tree plantation used in Latin America Africa and Asia traditionally in tropical areas where commerce appreciates their fast growth and versatility.	False
How does it compare to Europe or the US?	The fight against air pollution in three global cities Why is India worse off than China?	In this episode the big problem really seems to have been the agricultural burning assistant professor Thomas Smith of the London School of Economics told the BBC.	That's one thing that China has tackled.	What does pollution feel like?	False
At this year's State of the Union address Trump talked about ending the war on beautiful clean coal.	A fifth generation coal miner from Virginia has spoken out against President Donald Trump's rhetoric surrounding the coal mining industry saying the President is making false promises that are only going to line the pockets of coal executives.	In a New York Times op ed video published Tuesday Nick Mullins a ninth generation Appalachian from Virginia said that if Trump wants to help the Appalachian mining communities that support him lowering emission standards is not the way to do it.	Throughout his campaign and presidency Trump has lauded his plan to replace the Obama administration's climate change policies with rules and regulations that would be more friendly toward the coal industry.	We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue he said.	True
This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters its nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science gut our clean air protections and put polluter profits ahead of our health Sara Jordan a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters said in a statement.	The executive order titled Promoting Domestic Manufacturing and Job Creation Policies and Procedures Relating to Implementation of Air Quality Standards reverses an Obama era decision.	The orderinstructs the EPA to consider what countries that dont border the United States are doing to reduce pollution allowing the agency to compare U.S. regulations to those in developing nations like China and India.	It marks the latest assault on clean air rules putting poor people and communities of color particularly at risk.	Its a go ahead for industry that if they take their best shot at states the EPA wont be getting in the way.	True
Read Real Clear Politics it will tell you about how I started this whole thing back in 1987 climate change.	In 1987 Biden delivered a Senate speech warning of the dangers of global warming and his Global Climate Protection Act called for setting up a task force to plan to tackle the issue.	Social media users were quick to criticize Bidens response with some mocking him for saying he had started climate change and others pointing out that his 1987 effort didnt really work out so well.	A young activist from US Youth Climate Strike asked Biden if he would support a presidential climate policy forum organized by the group.	Joe Biden has been roundly mocked on Twitter after making the unlikely claim to a young activist appealing for a presidential debate on climate change that he kicked off the whole global warming movement back in the late 1980s.	True
People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	'The eyes of future generations are on you and if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you.	The 16 year old is taking a year out of school to lobby for climate action after starting the school strike movement in Sweden last August.	She skipped school for the first three weeks after term began and then took Fridays off to spend the day outside Sweden's parliament with a sign labelled 'School strike for climate'.	Its donors include heiress Aileen Getty American philanthropist Trevor Neilson and filmmaker Rory Kennedy a member of the political Kennedy clan.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	Air pollution leads to the premature death of 100000 Americans every year the AP reports and Trumps own EPA shows not only worse air pollution but a significant increase in the two worst categories very unhealthy and hazardous conditions.	His lies dont make it cleaner and his policies are on track to make it worse.	During the Trump administration U.S. cities saw air pollution in one of these two categories nearly 140 times which is almost three times as often as the average from 2013 to 2016.	While Trump has been in office the air has gotten dirtier.	True
Repairs cost about 90 million.	Things are better today than in March 2011.	At Fukushima in Japan an earthquake and tsunami disrupted power supplies and caused the fuel in some units to meltdown.	Other natural disasters since Fukushima have shut some plants.	That is the Crystal River plant owned by Duke Energy Corp. Duke is in the process of transferring used fuel from the spent fuel pool at the plant to dry cask storage as part of work to decommission the plant.	True
Rising temperatures Montana is warming nearly twice as quickly as the global average and changes in precipitation patterns are eroding away glaciers in the state and elsewhere along the Rocky mountains.	Andrew Fountain a geologist at Portland State added While the shrinkage in Montana is more severe than some other places in the US it is in line with trends that have been happening on a global scale.	Its inevitable that we will lose them all over the next few decades Farge said.	wikimedia commons Its now inevitable that the contiguous United States will lose all of its glaciers within a matter of decades according to scientists who have revealed the precipitous shrinkage of dozens of glaciers in Montana.	Last year scientists in Colorado found that the Arikaree glacier which is likely more than 1000 years old has been thinning by around a metre 3.2ft a year over the past decade and will vanish within 25 years.	False
Florida To Decide On Offshore Drilling And Vaping?	Jay Inslee and many Democrats and environmentalists who want to fight man made global warming.	The Daily Caller News Foundation lays out everything one needs to know about the six most important energy battles this election.	The battle of Initiative 1631 has become the most expensive in state history so far drawing 45 million from both sides of the policy.	While our editorial board opposes offshore drilling in state waters we also are philosophically opposed to the Constitution Revision Commissions bundling of these unrelated issues into a single amendment the editorial board of Treasure Coast Newspapers wrote in October.	True
Damage caused by wildfires has cost 5.1bn in the last decade Verisk found.	In California recent years have seen a combination of extremely high temperatures strong winds a long drought and population growth causing lethal fast moving blazes.	How do these deadly fires start and why is California so susceptible?	The majority could be attributed to humans though only 8 were caused by arson.	In the last year alone California has seen catastrophic wildfires burn thousands of acres.	False
The revenue was designed to be directed toward projects accelerating the states shift away from fossil fuels including expanding public transit energy efficiency retrofits for big buildings and new wind and solar powered plants.	This story was originally published byHuffPostand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	The Western States Petroleum Association raised over 31 milliona record for Washington ballot initiativesfor its No campaign spending nearly 30 million of it by the start of this month.	The campaign dispensed 10.8 million in the last two weeks of October alone.	The Evergreen States third and latest attempt to put a price on climate pollution failed Tuesday as voters rejected the historic ballot measure notching yet another win for the oil and gas industry.	True
Gov.	Heoutraged the world by exiting the Paris climate agreement.	He is trying to undo the Clean Power Plan fuel economy standards for carsoffshore drilling restrictions and solar tax credits.	More recently Brown helped found the United States Climate Alliance a group of state and local governments pledging to abide by the Paris climate agreement even after the federal government withdraws.	Donald Trump has singlehandedly been working to set back U.S. climate policy 50 years.	False
I believe theres climate change Walberg said according to a video of the exchange obtained first published by the Huffington Post.	Do I think man has some impact?	On Thursday afternoon President Trump is expected to announce whether the United States will remain a member of the Paris climate agreement.	Walberg was speaking to constituents in Coldwater Mich. last week when he was asked about climate change.	Walbergwho has previously questioned the existence of global warmingfirst joked that he could take some global warming at home in Michigan because it was too cold and some global cooling in Washingtonbecause of the humidity.	False
For China pollution can rise into the 700s which could be having a major impact on happiness.	People are unhappy and that means they may make irrational decisions.	Researchers used pollution data from 144 Chinese cities and monitored general happiness of urban dwellers by looking at the mood using 210 million messages from China's largest microblogging platform Sina Weibo.	They found a significantly negative correlation between pollution and happiness levels with every increase in pollution above a healthy level bringing happiness down by 0.04 points out of 100.	The research was published in the journal Nature Human Behaviour.	False
The question should be you know just how much and what are the policy changes that we need to make to affect that?	Trump has pegged himself as a savior of Americas dying coal industry and has vowed to increase oil and gas production openingnow protected areasof the Arctic and Atlantic oceans to drilling.	In June he announced plans topull the U.S. out of the historic Paris Agreement on climate change the international accord in which nearly 200 countries committed to slashing carbon emissions in an effort to prevent global temperatures fromincreasing 2 degrees Celsiusabove pre industrial levelsthe line scientists say the world must stay below to stave off the very worst effects of climate change.	Is man having an effect on it?	The report delivers a strikingly different message than the one being pushed by Trump and his Cabinet members who continue to downplay the urgency of the threat as they work toward energy dominance.	False
It was the second largest of the last century in Hawaii.	More earthquakes and eruptions have been forecast perhaps for months to come.	It sounded like 10 or 20 jet engines said Nail.	He was asleep on the couch when a fissure opened up 2000 feet 610 meters away spewing out lava and gas.	This is the first of perhaps more events like that to come Tina Neal the scientist in charge of the USGS Hawaiian Volcano Observatory said on a conference call of Wednesdays blast which shot projectiles from the crater.	False
It's bigger than the U.S. and Mexico combined.	But there is good news as far as climate change goes.	A massive waterfall formed on Greenland's ice sheet.	Here's why it matters We now have to monitor this glacier carefully.	They developed a new generation ice sheet model but it was not behaving as expected.	False
The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions a major factor in global warming.	President Donald Trump who insists he is an environmentalist has also relaxed rules on carbon emissions from vehicles and intends to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris agreement on climate change.	The move is the Trump administrations latest easing of rules designed to curb greenhouse gas emissions including many put forth by his predecessor President Barack Obama.	Concern about climate has heightened in recent weeks amid fires in the Arctic and the Amazon rainforest and melting of ice in Greenland.	Susan Dio chairman and president of BP America supported federal regulation of methane in an opinion piece in the Houston Chronicle earlier this year calling it the the best way to help further reduce and ultimately eliminate methane emissions industrywide.	False
Human activity such as population growth and transport combined with climate change increases antibacterial resistance... and therefore the need for more pharmaceuticals.	And the situation is set to get even more acute as climate change increases the spread and frequency of infectious diseases such as malaria and dengue.	The OECD said that antibiotic use for livestock is predicted to rocket by more than two thirds in the next decade stoking concerns over antibiotic resistance.	There are growing fears that the unchecked use of antibiotics in both medicine and agriculture will have adverse effects on the environment and on human health.	Leckie said there was something of a vicious circle when it came to medical prescriptions and climate related disease.	True
As a New York Times story lays out Murray was the architect of a so called environmental regulations wish list which detailed a list of policies aimed at reinvigorating the coal industry like curbing restrictions on greenhouse gases and slashing staff at the EPA.	Wheeler and Murray were photographed at a March 2017 meeting with Energy Secretary Rick Perry where many of these policies were purportedly discussed.	Others included Xcel Energy and General Mills.	As Trump said himself I have no doubt that Andy will continue on with our great and lasting EPA agenda.	Pruitts goals as EPA administrator have centered on crafting or destroying policy in order to establish a friendlier regime for the fossil fuel industry.	True
Former President Barack Obama had put in place a rule in 2016 that was connected to a regulatory strategy which sought to reduce methane emissions.	The courts ruling is yet another reminder now in the context of environmental protection that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the presidents desire to order immediate change Richard Lazarus environmental law professor at Harvard Law School said in an email as reported by the Post.	READ MOREMining in Alaska may return as EPA scraps Obama era regulations Pruitt the new head of the EPA had been looking to extend a suspension on these activities for two years.	Pruitt has also begun to move on suspending or revoking many other measures which were implemented during the Obama years.	Lazarus continued the DC Circuits ruling today makes clear that neither the president nor his EPA administrator Scott Pruitt can by fiat unilaterally and instantaneously repeal or otherwise stay the effectiveness of the environmental protection rules put into place during the Obama administration.	True
U.S.	The country is not on track to achieve that goal.	We're a big country with a lot of power and a lot of influence around the world.	The unfortunate reality is U.S. carbon emissions actually rose last year.	Each country set its own goals and many wealthy countries including the U.S. also agreed to help poorer countries pay for the costs associated with climate change.	True
Signing his order the president said thousands of jobs were at risk because the EPA decided that navigable waters can mean nearly every puddle or every ditch on a farmers land or anyplace else that they decide.	The National Mining Association another opponent of the rule and representative of an industry relentlessly backed by Trump welcomed its impending demise.	We are taking significant action to return power to the states and provide regulatory certainty to our nations farmers and businesses said Scott Pruitt administrator of the EPA.	Once again the Trump administration has agreed to do the bidding of the worst polluters in our country and once again its putting the health of American families and communities at risk said Michael Brune executive director of Sierra Club.	In recent months the EPA has wound back rules curbing vehicle emissions toxic waste from power plants and methane leaks from oil and gas drilling operations.	True
The sale comes amid an ongoing debate over drilling in states like Colorado Arizona and New Mexico where a coalition of tribes are calling for a halt on energy development near land that Native Americans consider sacred.	The Trump administration has pushed to open vast expanses of public lands to oil and gas drilling speed up the construction of petroleum pipelines and ease federal environmental regulations dismissing calls from scientists in and out of government that immediate cuts in oil gas and coal emissions are required to stave off the worst of climate change.	When this oil and gas leasing happens on or near sacred lands it risks de stabilizing the bedrock of the structures said Ahjani Yepa a member of Utah Din Bikyah a Navajo grass roots organization.	The Bureau of Land Management would benefit from more community outreach and long term planning to lease parcels on sensitive landscapes said Erika Pollard an associate director with the National Parks Conservation Association.	Included in the Bureau of Land Managements September oil and gas lease sale is about 47 square miles 122 square kilometers of land north of Hovenweep National Monument a group of prehistoric villages overlooking a canyon with connections to several indigenous tribes throughout the U.S. Southwest.	False
At the most extreme high end that could add up to 10 percent of GDP by 2100.	CNN reported the economy could lose hundreds of billions of dollars or in the worst case scenario more than 10 of its GDP by 2100.	RELATED Trump Touts Oil Prices Getting Lower As Millions Hit The Road For Thanksgiving However NCAs dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes from a 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors.	That 2017 study published in the journal Science was funded in part by Bloomberg Philanthropies and Next Generation which were founded by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and San Francisco billionaire Tom Steyer respectively.	All told the report says climate change could slash up to a tenth of gross domestic product by 2100 more than double the losses of the Great Recession a decade ago The New York Times reported of the NCA.	True
What are we looking for?	Wall asked.	I'd like to know what's hazardous.	Laney Wall who lost her home in the Sonoma County community of Fountaingrove asked why homeowners had to go through the expense trouble and wait of the clean up at all.	With hundreds of anxious homeowners listening state emergency services official Eric Lamoureux set a target of early 2018 for completing the clean up and allowing owners to start rebuilding.	False
Take Trumps nominee to head the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt.	President Donald Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement has been portrayed in some press coverage as a decision driven by either his personal idiosyncrasies or the policy agenda of White House chief strategist Steve Bannon.	The reality is that one of the USs two major political parties is institutionally committed at nearly every level to the same basic agenda of environmental deregulation and inaction on carbon emissions.	Trumps withdrawal in Paris isnt an odd outlier but instead rests on that foundation.	Which makes it the crucial context for Trumps move Thursday.	False
Trump said the regulations harm U.S. businesses and getting rid of them would help kick start the economy.	During an economic policy speech in New York Trump said he would eliminate the Clean Power Plan and the Waters of the United States rule.	Using the anthropogenic global warming scaremongering and specious public health predictions the Clean Power Plan essentially put the US coal industry out of business.	She wants to shut down the miners just like she wants to shut down the steel mills and steel workers.	In September 2016 then candidate Donald Trump gave an economic policy speech in which he specifically targeted the Clean Power Plan Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump said he would repeal four key Environmental Protection Agency regulations as president leading one environmental group to call his plans a dumpster fire.	True
After that conversation Trump economic adviser Gary Cohn said the president's views are evolving and that he feels much much more knowledgeable after the conversation with world leaders.	And up for debate the peril of climate change and the urgency of the U.S. commitment to the Paris accord to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.	In Europe World Leaders Try To Change Trump's Mind On Climate Change It was eight against one according to German Chancellor Angela Merkel.	On the other side President Trump.	Any decision on climate change would ultimately be based on what's best for the United States Cohn said.	True
Its intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that youre talking about.	We dont go into policy but we provide the information for people who want to go further with that.	It basically diagnoses what is happening in the climate system Arndt said on a conference call.	According to the report the effect of long term global warming and a powerful El Nio early on pushed 2016 into record setting warmth.	Were scientists and were providing objective information Jessica Blunden a climate scientist at NOAAs National Climatic Data Center in Asheville N.C. told Yahoo News.	False
In the past there has been lots of invest in the stable grains like maize and corn but now we really need to move it to the crops we need more of.	Fast on the heels of the landmark report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC comes this new study on how food production and consumption impact major threats to the planet.	The study says that thanks to the population and income growth expected between 2010 and 2050 these impacts could grow between 50 90.	Tackling food loss and waste will require measures across the entire food chain from storage and transport over food packaging and labelling to changes in legislation and business behaviour that promote zero waste supply chains said Fabrice de Clerck director of science at EAT who funded the study.	We also looked at increasing the efficiency of water use and we looked at better monitoring and recycling of fertiliser lots of it is lost and it runs off into rivers and causes dead zones in the oceans.	False
I think thats going to be determined by the president as we move forward.	The official echoed Can we stay on topic please?	One official replied So I think the fact that the president in his speech today said he wants to come back and renegotiate a better deal for the United States and for the world I think speaks for itself.	One of the administration officials responded If you look at the Europeans if you look at other major economies or allies or partners they have a strong interest in finding common ground with the United States and again we dont want to get out ahead of ourselves here on what may be discussed or not.	Now whats the negotiating process?	False
Democratic Gov.	Its a long thorough piece of legislation that mandates carbon emission reductions across the states economy while accounting for job quality standards and economic equity.	The central provision of House Bill 2020 is to institute a cap and trade mechanism for carbon dioxide across the state a mechanism to cut emissions 45 percent below 1990 levels by 2035 and 80 percent by 2050.	Theres been incredible work going into that bill Courtney said.	Oregon has also been working on carbon pricing policies since 1997.	False
Ironically she failed because of left wing communist protesters in Chile Henderson was forced to make the flight last second because protests in Chile caused the U.N.s Cop25 climate summit to be moved to Madrid Spain.	Greta Thunberg tried really hard to keep her zero emissions promise but it has collapsed like all hypocritical left wing plans because it was just too difficult.	I mean you really think the entire world is going to come to a screeching halt for carbon emissions when you cant even organize a publicity stunt with your own standards?	No wonder celebs opt to be complete and utter hypocrites instead of actually trying to get carbon neutral.	The plan for zero emissions travel was subverted when Thunbergs yacht captain Nikki Henderson 26 flew to the United States from England burning roughly two or three tons of carbon CO2 in the process.	False
Like the rollback of the Production Safety Systems Rule this effort is all about helping industry.	At the time the Interior Departments Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement one of the agencies born out of the reorganization of the Minerals Management Service estimated that the move would save companies some 288 million over 10 years.	In April 2017 Trump signed an executive order aimed at opening up protected areas of the Arctic and Atlantic oceans to oil and gas leasing.	The language also points to broader reform efforts that occurred after the Gulf spill including thedivision of the Minerals Management Service the scandal plagued agency faced with the conflicting tasks of issuing leases and policing offshore drilling operations into three new agencies.	The offshore drilling announcement drew immediate outrage from both Democrats and Republicans who expressed concern about possible environmental damage and negative effects on tourism.	False
Asked what he would like politicians to do for the Amazon he said that he would like economic alternatives for people here to find a way we can make use of the natural wealth we have here.	Aid worth 22m 18m was announced by Mr Macron at a summit in France of the seven leading industrial powers.	Mr Bolsonaro has previously said his government lacks the resources to fight the record number of fires in the Amazon region but his government is also being accused of slashing funding for environmental protection.	Earlier Brazilian ministers said the G7 money was not needed and they accused foreign powers of wanting control of the Amazon.	It spans a number of countries but the majority of it falls within Brazil.	True
But scientists such as Keith and Mark Lawrence scientific director of the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies IASS in Potsdam argue that with the Paris agreement goals to limit temperature rise to two degrees or less almost impossible to achieve the world has little choice than to thoroughly explore technical intervention and the potential it has to avoid global disaster.	One of the main concerns I and everyone involved in this have is that Trump might tweet geoengineering solves everything we dont have to bother about emissions.	Indeed utterances from people in or close to the Trump administration most notably GE proponent secretary of state Rex Tillerson who has referred to climate change as just an engineering problem make it clear they either tacitly or directly support the idea of climate engineering.	Right now there are heads of state and others in leadership who are explicitly assuming it could work that its there if we need it.	Keith believes the experiment may help to measure the feasibility and risks involved in GE an umbrella term for a range of techniques to deliberately adjust the climate in an effort to mitigate global warming.	False
a greener planet and enhanced crop yields.	Can you imagine the misery and consternation and horror this is going to cause in the corrupt rancid rent seeking world of the Climate Industrial Complex?	Greenhouse Effect Not the Main Driver of Climate Together with these 400 new papers that makes 900 science papers in the last two years casting doubt on global warming.	What they are saying in their different ways is that global warming as in the big scare story that the planet is heating up at a catastrophic unprecedented rate because of man made CO2 emissions is bunk or that the methods being used to combat the problem are bunk.	Detecting a clear anthropogenic forcing signal amidst the noise of unforced natural variability may therefore be difficult.	False
For a very long time there has been this perception that Big Oil was too big to take on but here we are the smallest state taking on some of the biggest corporate polluters in the world Kilmartin said in a statement.	Kilmartin is seeking to force the companies to pay for damages associated with climate change citing the costs taxpayers were incurring to repair roads and bridges and rebuild coastal structures.	The lawsuit announced by Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Kilmartin was the first by a state seeking to hold oil companies responsible for costs associated with climate change and followed similar cases by several local governments nationally.	The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products.	The lawsuit contended that the companies sought to refute scientific findings regarding how greenhouse gas pollution was causing climate change and failed to prevent the harm that would result from consumers using fossil fuel products.	True
Canada wants to create good jobs and wants to grow our economy and create opportunities for business.	The clean growth economy is where the world is going and Canada is going to be part of it McKenna said Thursday on Parliament Hill.	We want to be there we want to be providing solutions for the world.	With the North American Free Trade Agreement on the cusp of renegotiation environmental policy could well become integral to reaching a new agreement.	This is about an ambitious and unshakable desire to leave a cleaner healthier and more sustainable planet for our kids and for generations to come.	True
The E.P.A.	Want climate news in your inbox?	Sign up here for Climate Fwd our email newsletter.	had originally forecast that eliminating the Obama era rule the Clean Power Plan and replacing it with a new measure would have resulted in an additional 1400 premature deaths per year.	The new analytical model would significantly reduce that number and would most likely be used by the Trump administration to defend further rollbacks of air pollution rules if it is formally adopted.	False
Thats the environmentalinjustice and racism that were dealing with and my plan would equip Americans with the tools tofight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what isright now a tremendous injustice he said.	We need to invest in these communities and their ability to withstand storms and other natural disasters and their ability to have something as simple as clean water or breathe clean air he said.	I think about poor communities along the east coast he said.	Theyre the ones who can least afford to deal with the climate crisis he said during the CNN town hall.	He said to pay for his plan he would create a carbon pollution fee on corporations who are industrial scale polluters.	False
The plan harnesses the power of the free market to solve climate change through innovation OBrien said.	We claim to be the party that cares about the future that our children will inherit and we need climate policy that reflects that said Kiera OBrien 21 a senior at Harvard University who co founded the group.	The Thomson Reuters Foundation reported on the campaign which runs counter to the stance of the Republican Party and President Donald Trump that the issue is more about globalization than saving the planet Drawn from Republican groups on more than two dozen university campuses the Young Conservatives for Carbon Dividends called for laws to tax oil natural gas and coal producers of planet warming greenhouse gases.	The key here is the dividend back to the people former Sen. Trent Lott R MS who supports the young group told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.	The article pointed out that Trump has rejected the climate doomsday scenario and has instead acted to help the U.S. energy sector by slashing regulations and withdrawing the U.S. from the Paris Climate Accord both policies aimed at helping American workers and the economy.	False
The latest move was backed by Climate Action 100 a group of nearly 300 international investors carrying roughly 32 trillion in assets.	The company has also pledged to review its connections to industry lobbying groups that oppose the Paris agreement a non binding deal crafted in 2015 with the goal of dramatically reducing global carbon emissions over the next 15 years.	The company also plans on linking such targets to the pay of senior executives subject to a shareholder vote in 2020.	The lack of transparency and competition in the proxy advisory firm industry gives a small number of businesses significant influence over how corporations deal with environmental issues.	Some analyst groups worry activist shareholders use a largely unregulated industry to hoodwink U.S. companies into accepting proposals designed to tackle climate change that carry little long term benefits.RELATEDA Federal Judge Torches Two Lawsuits Trying To Blame Oil Companies For Climate Change So called proxy advisory firms craft disclosure requirements that force companies to show they are taking efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions.	True
And coal consumption is at its lowest level since 1979.	Yet coal plants are closing everywhere and no new ones are even on the drawing board.	With energy demand projected to stay level that means its coal thats going to yield.	As weve pointed out over and over again the coal industry in the United States has been floundering for years and theres little Trump can do to stop it.	Meanwhile coal mining jobs have cratered from a high of more than 800000 in the 1920s to roughly 76000 today.	True
Its the same industrythat the Trump administration has worked so hard to prop up over the last two years and that Zinke now regulates as chief steward of Americas natural resources.	And he agrees with Russian President Vladimir Putin that 60 per barrel is a good spot to keep the economic engine in good shape he said.	Weve gotten a lot better as industry Zinke said quickly correcting himself.	We want to embrace better stewardship.	He pointed to energy producers success with domestic shale production noting that companies have been able to turn a profit on oil from the Bakken fields in Montana and North Dakota when prices have been at around 30 per barrel.	True
It's cents for a nation like Colombia.	Mr Castillo says money is key The first step to protecting the palms will be to allocate the proper amount to the environmental sector.	The ceroxylon quindiuense a distinct species of palm tree which was declared the country's national tree in 1985 is on the verge of extinction and most Colombians are not even aware of the problem.	With the area now safer and more accessible following the 2016 peace deal with the Farc rebels farmers are moving back and the scientists fear for the future of the national tree.	Mr Bernal and his fellow scientists have for years been urging the government to buy up the land a move they estimate would cost 10m 7.7m but so far no action has been taken.	False
But where does Buttigieg stand when it comes to implementing an economy wide plan?	This is not about taking money out of the economy he said.	First A carbon tax and dividend.	As well as the fact that we as a country need a project and climate change is as good a one as well ever have.	His pitch sounds like a revenue neutral carbon tax a fee on pollution that gets returned to taxpayers every year instead of going toward a climate resiliency fund or a green project.	True
They will have a harder time having economic growth.	Kerry cited in the interview the millions of renewable energy jobs that have been created to help curb carbon dioxide emissions as an example of how the Paris Agreement and its associated efforts would have a positive impact on the economy but the truth is that the only reason the wind and solar energy industries have been able to survive is because they are heavily subsidized by taxpayers.	NERA estimated meeting the nations obligations under the agreement would cost the U.S. economy nearly 3 trillion and by 2040 the United States would have lost 6.5 million industrial sector jobs including 3.1 million manufacturing jobs.	Kerrys argument that Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris Agreement will cause economic problems is equally absurd.	As H. Sterling Burnett a research fellow in climate and energy issues for The Heartland Institute where I also work as executive editor and a research fellow noted in a recent article on Trumps decision Numerous studies including a NERA Economic Consulting report cited in Trumps announcement showed meeting the carbon dioxide targets imposed on the United States under the Paris agreement would force the premature closing of many of the nations least expensive power plants.	True
Option one involved hiring a PR firm to manufacture fake grassroots support for the facility and change the conversation.	However few are happy to live near the firms bottling plants where they say heavy traffic disturbs their sleep and the companys water collection activities threaten endangered species and destroy the rural character of their areas.	In 2018 the company was accused of illegally disposing of arsenic tainted wastewater from another of its California plants.	The company planned on building a 100000 square foot plant that would extract 400 gallons of water per minute from nearby springs.	If both options were to fail Beykpour suggested we dump this site and move on.	False
For generations weve agreed that there are some places so special that they should be protected for visitors to enjoy away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life.	But this announcement disregards well established policies for how visitors can enjoyably and safely experience the backcountry in national parks said Kristen Brengel senior vice president at the National Parks Conservation Association.	Mounting backlog Crumbling national parks Congress looks to hike funds for repairs after years of neglect In making the announcement the NPS touted the environmental effects of the new policy saying the e bikes can reduce greenhouse gas emissionswhen used as an alternative to cars and motorcycles and improve poor air quality at national parks by reducing traffic congestion.	Park visitors posting in June before the policy was announced on the independent National Parks Traveler web siteexpressed mixed opinions on the expanded use of the electronic bikes.	An e bike is classified asa two or three wheeled cycle with fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts 1 h.p.	False
That could be a big deal he says for anybody who lives works and governs a coastal region.	Since around 2010 2012 we can see that there's been a sharp increase in the rate of ice loss from Antarctica.	So what accounts for the apparent three fold speed up in Antarctica's melting in the last five years?	That's causing glaciers to flow more quickly into the sea.	When we look into the ocean we find that it's too warm and the ice sheet can't withstand the temperatures that are surrounding it in the sea he says.	False
The climate is changing and quickly.	Forests are shifting and the first climate refugees have lost their homes.	We help hiring managers and executive search firms access the deep pipeline of qualified candidates of color help organizations build an equitable and inclusive culture internally and advocate for data transparency across the sector.	The time has come for radical thinking for inclusive problem solving for crowd sourced innovation.	AP PhotoNam Y. HuhAP It seems like every week theres a new story about some completely unprecedented unpredictable environmental event.	True
PARIS AGREEMENT ON CLIMATE CHANGE WASHINGTON REACTS TO US PULLOUT The Paris accord will undermine our economy Trump said during the announcement in the White House Rose Garden.	We are in the middle of a clean energy revolution that no single person or group can stop.	President Trumps decision is profoundly in conflict with what the majority of Americans want from our president but no matter what he does we will ensure that our inevitable transition to a clean energy economy continues.	Under the terms of the deal the U.S. the worlds second largest emitter of carbon would be required to reduce fossil fuel emissions around 30 percent by 2025.	It undermines Americas standing in the world and threatens to damage humanitys ability to solve the climate crisis in time.	True
so the incentives are not great.	In an interview with the Flash Report this week Cox said water housing affordability and the gas tax are the three main issues he wants to tackle.	Meanwhile the PPIC poll also found that likely voters see drought and water supply as the top environmental issue facing the state followed by air pollution a majority 58 support a water bond on the November ballot and noted that astrong majority of likely voters 69 say that the effects of global warming have already begun.	Environmental issues have been a strong point for Newsom who last year said hewould use specific environmental laws in California to stop President Donald Trumps border wall from being built.	Most also say that water is the most important issue to them in that category.	False
The global strike set just days before September 23s U.N.	Inspired by the young people leading on todays and committed to standing alongside them in the battle against climate change The global strike follows Thunbergs appearance before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and Select Committee on the Climate Crisis.	The youth led and the solidarity strikes from groups like show that our country is ready to fight for the big structural change well need to tackle the climate crisis Sen. Elizabeth Warren D MA tweeted Young people have already demonstrated they can take on powerful fossil fuel companies and force politicians to answer their call to action Sen. Bernie Sanders I VT wrote.	Videos are surfacing from protests across the globe showing sizable crowds in places like Ireland Germany Australia Uganda and more Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn participated in the climate strikes in London and condemned President Trump for pulling out of the Paris Climate Agreement.	Climate change is an existential threatand we are already facing the effects.	True
A coal fired power plant in central Poland.	Economic costs associated with such disasters are mounting.	In the U.S. President Trump has threatened to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and his administration has moved to allow greater emissions from power plants vehicles and oil and gas operations.	We face a direct existential threat.	China and the U.S. are the top greenhouse gas emitters in the world and their cooperation was the crucial foundation for the Paris Agreement.	True
A value added tax which is widely used around the world is consumption based.	The carbon tax would appear to clash with the priorities Trump has sought so far in his administration.	Earlier in the day The Washington Post reported that the Trump administration was looking at a value added tax or carbon tax as part of its reform plan.	Watch White House says no to VAT carbon tax	A carbon tax would hit emissions of greenhouse gases related to the burning of fossil fuels.	True
So it is important to create jobs and activities that generate income while protecting the environment and helping people to emerge from poverty he declared.	We are faced not with two separate crises one environmental and the other social but rather with one complex crisis which is both social and environmental he said.	In a word there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earths goods not only of present generations but also of those yet to come he said.	The pope went on to enumerate his vision of the problem while also recognizing that many poor people derive their livelihood from activities that threaten the environment.	The pontiff tied together social and ecological problems insisting that the two are intimately intertwined.	False
The article detailed aU.N.	Climate Action Summit on Sept. 23an event that promises to spark the transformation that is urgently needed and propel action that will benefit everyone.	The dire predictions often repeated inthe media warned of a variety of impending disasters famine drought an ice age and even disappearing nations if the world failed to act on climate change.	In 2008 ABC released an ominous video about what the world would look like in 2015.	But short term predictions weren't a laughing matter in the years following An Inconvenient Truth a documentary produced by former Vice President Al Gore.	True
Ironically the switch from coal to natural gas over the past decade has enabled the U.S. economy to grow while reducing emissionsover the long run.	The plan also aims to provide every American with a guaranteed job with a family sustaining wage adequate family and medical leave paid vacations and retirement security to all people.	It is not clear how the state will achieve that goal.	This is the Green New Deal Not in concept not in the future but now Garcetti said as quoted by theLos Angeles Times.	The term Green New Deal refers to a bill introduced by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D NY last week which proposes moving the entire U.S. economy to renewable energy in the next ten years.	False
In winter the seas are covered in ice and shrouded in darkness it is prone to storms and fog and there is little infrastructure to support industrial activity with just small communities and few jet runways.	Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oils exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012 which led to a series of problems mistakes and violations of environmental laws.	On its way back from the Beaufort Sea it lost control of its drilling vessel the Kulluk which ran aground in the Gulf of Alaska in severe weather and had to be towed to Seattle Washington and then scrapped.	The Obama administration banned oil and gas exploration in most of the USs Arctic Ocean and Atlantic Ocean waters last year but President Donald Trump ordered Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke in April to review the ban with the goal of opening up offshore areas for oil and gas drilling.	Over the past 30 days BOEM has been carefully evaluating the EP exploration plan in accordance with federal law and regulationsincluding site specific Environmental Assessmentand conclude with a Finding of No Significant Impact BEOM said in a statement.	False
The Democratic Party has long been dogged by tensions between environmentalists clamoring for action on climate change and labor leaders warning against policies that ostracize the fossil fuel industry which provides high paid construction jobs.	Young people and Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma.	That mirrors the Trump administrations aggressive efforts to unwind the few relatively weak climate regulations that exist and to upend fragile negotiations at the 24th Conference of the Parties in Katowice Poland where diplomats this week are struggling to garner support for basic resolutions recognizing the scientific consensus on global warming.	Thats not the only issue for which the Green New Deal would provide a fix.	Nearly four years later the White House is promoting the same brand of denialism and fealty to the fossil fuel industry at the United Nations climate conference in Poland.	False
Throughout the economy fossil fuels being only the most obvious example new information has come to light that challenges whether historic price levels of these things are appropriate given what weve learned about their impact on society Roston said.	You dont go through the quarterly quarterly results from Coke Levis or anyone else and not come away thinking that they dont have concerns over limited resources like water.	For the launch the site will include a feature on how communities in South Florida are coping with rising waters a short animated video series on heat extreme weather and the cost of carbon and a multi part graphic on Russias growing influence in the fast warming Arctic.	If you have intelligence agencies around the world identifying climate change as one of the great destabilizing forces theres a massive risk to contend with for any business and any investor behind it.	The business community absolutely demands this the investor community demands this Sandberg said.	True
Regarding the price of water.	The public no tests no international treaties that will stop it.	I expect that India will need to invest in sea water desalination.	Crores of rupees of the tax payers money will be used for tankers that will cause incredible pollution in the rural areas.Creation of many lakes all over the country to catch and store rain water is a primary objective.	The most likely is distributing air pollution in the stratosphere.I doubt that India will concern itself with niceties of international cooperation.	False
And when it gets hotter our thermostats turn lower and the cycle continues.	In 2012 a heat kink caused a 32 car long freight train to derail and fly off an overpass a similar derailment happened in 2017.	Asphalt warps and melts.	But it goes further than just an ever hotter summer season the emissions from air conditioners and their refrigerants is contributing to climate change.	Extreme heat makes pollution worse which can be dangerous for the very young the elderly and anyone with respiratory diseases.	True
And his campaign has received163750 from the oil and gas industry according to Vote Smart a nonprofit political watch dog organization the York Dispatch said.	Strauss then yelled a question at Wolf about the funds his campaign got from the fossil fuel industry 98000 during the 2018 election cycle according to Follow the Money.	This bipartisan agreement modernizes and strengthens environmental protections at oil and gas sites in Pennsylvania.	He also announced a nation leading strategy to reduce emissions of methane.	One of his first acts as governor was to sign an executive order reinstating the moratorium on new leases for drilling in state parks and forests and he has been fighting efforts by Republicans in Washington to cut EPA funding.	False
However she's more into data than storytelling so the kids take a trip to a glacier allowing her to tell the story of you guessed it climate change which is met with a standing ovation by the audience.	Episode 12 Monster Power teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources.Albert one of the students has seen a movie in which the evil monster loves pollution and is coming for us next for what we've done to this planet!	has been asked to join her storyteller parents in telling a story of her own for a crowd.	There is a pretty predictable take on climate change propaganda for little kids but that wasn't the worst.	Of course conserving energy is a good thing and we should be kind to the earth but this climate change hysteria is taking over.	False
The other from 2007 discussed how to survive global warming.	This climate denier for example	In 2007 Time published a cover story titled The Global Warming Survival Guide.	One published by Newsweek is a favorite of climate deniers.	Scientists have since reached an overwhelming consensus The planet is getting warmer and humans are to blame.	False
For the Serbian power company EPS the attraction of a local supply of coal has combined with a cheap Chinese loan and the prospects of valuable exports of electricity.	By having China invest in over 60 countries along the Belt and Road Initiative it's perpetuating a source of pollution that has been demonstrated to be harmful not just to the climate but also to economies she said.	That's likely to be the same in many other countries too whatever climate scientists say is needed.	With Chinese workers and Serbian workers at the beginning we had some cultural problems but we have overcome them and there is now very good cooperation.	I ask the EPS official running the project Zeljko Lazovic what he feels about such a large and important venture being in the hands of Chinese engineers and workers.	True
We get to assist Poland we get to assist Lithuania we get to assist the Baltic states.	Hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling spurred an oil and natural gas boom over the past decade making the U.S. the worlds top hydrocarbon producer.	Brouillette also stressed the geopolitical implications of LNG exports and the role energy could play in President Donald Trumps foreign policy.	These are decisions that impact the presidents ability to make foreign policy decisions Brouillette told TheDCNF.	We have been promoting US energy around the world and todays decision by the FERC is a very important one DOE Deputy Secretary Dan Brouillette told The Daily Caller News Foundation in an interview.RELATED US Oil Output Hits 12 Million Barrel A Day Milestone Way Ahead Of Schedule The Calcasieu Pass LNG export terminal is the first such project to get FERC approval in two years.	True
They met with leaders from the seven democracies with the worlds most developed economies Canada France Germany Italy Japan the United Kingdom and the United States.	Amid talk of combating terrorism and the global economy they also discussed international efforts to fight climate change.	Bush in the early 90s.	We tried to explain that to Mr. Trump in Taormina in clear German sentences.	European Commission President Jean Claude Juncker said President Trump doesnt seem to understand that he cant immediately yank the United States out of the Paris Agreement on climate change.	True
The U.S. has become the world's biggest oil and gas producer over the last couple of years thanks mainly to a technology led drilling boom.	We're going to address the climate.	The climate is changing.	Common sense tells you bring the cleaner burning fuels bring the things that bring the emissions down.	On Monday Trump talked about his administration's environmental record saying America can lead the world in fighting pollution at the same time it promotes fossil fuels.	True
If there is poetry in demanding a Green New Deal in the city that birthed the automotive age the citys union legacy gives the call real teeth.	Amid the gleaming towers of automotive giants whose vehicles now spew the majority of Americas climate changing gases the demonstrators called for a future in which the health of the planet and its people guides industrial planning andin which the Motor City sheds its association with combustion engines.	We are being robbed and pillaged by industry Landrum said her voice rising to a preachers righteous crescendo.	A few job promises and they get to pollute as much as they want.	Such is life and death in the 48217 Michigans most polluted ZIP code home to automotive plants the states only oil refinery and more than 8200 mostly working class African Americans.	True
The EPA can repeal the Clean Power Plan but not the laws of economics Bloomberg tweeted.	As much as we want to see progress made with clean air and clean water with an understanding that we can also grow jobs we have to do so within the framework of what Congress has passed Pruitt said.	It is a key element in continuing the progress moving toward clean energy and retiring coal.	Former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg whose philanthropy said it would donate 15 million toward supporting operations of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change after the Trump administration announced intentions to withdraw from the Paris climate accord tweeted his criticism of the repeal proposal Monday.	This won't revive coal or stop the US from reaching our Paris goal.	False
Were hit first and hit worst.	By fighting for the actual justice and livelihood of working people you are going to create the political energy to actually address climate change she said.	This is about social disruption Shepard said.	Advocates of man made climate change believe that it causes strong storms rising tides and hot temperatures and that black communities are disproportionately hurt by the effects of global warming.	Leo Woodberry executive director of the New Alpha Community Development Corporation in Florence S.C.	False
For the past two years the Trump Administration has been an active and meaningful driver for science and technology policy in America.	taken steps to cut back the US Environmental Protection Agency is on record saying that global warming is a hoax invented by the Chinese to attack US manufacturing......	pic.twitter.comJQkiWI4Dx2 White House OSTP February 21 2019 Donald Trump has said he will pull the US out of the Paris international climate agreement!	The initial tweet was posted the White House Office of Science and Technology after it issued a report titled Science Technology Highlights in the Second Year of the Trump Administration.	Robert Johnson February 21 2019 When you continue to deny climate science you cant make the claim that you are a driver of science policy.	False
Evidence since enactment of the Energy Independence and Security Act suggests an increase in acreage planted with soybeans and corn with strong indications from observed changes in land use that some of this increase is a consequence of increased biofuel production read a portion of the 159 page report.	Essentially the study found that biofuel mandates are boosting production of corn and soybeans.	An extensive report from the Environmental Protection Agency found that including ethanol into the U.S. gas supply is wreaking havoc on the atmosphere and soil.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The ethanol mandate has negatively effected water quality with greater biofuel production resulting in more harmful algae blooms and hypoxia.	True
The climate crisis is happening here and it's killing people forcing them from their homes and ruining children's chance of a future said Ian Vale from Save the Children.	With our very existence at stake COP 25 must demonstrate unprecedented ambition to avert ecocide.	Climate change Where we are in seven charts The world's average surface temperature is rising rapidly because human activities release greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide CO2.	We are disappointed by inadequate action by developed countries and outraged by the dithering and retreat of one of the most culpable polluters from the Paris Agreement she said.	But President Trump has said the accord which has been signed by more than 190 countries would lead to lost jobs and lower wages for American workers.	False
It's been a lot more about expanding development opening up to oil and gas.	Hunting in the United States is down.	And the new administration is poised to change that.	And the big thing that the secretary hears over and over again is that people just don't have access to land.	Last year they contributed 1.2 billion toward conservation and protecting our natural resources.	False
Under Trump the fossil fuel industry has wielded unusual influence over the agency that supposedly regulates it and beleaguered staff fret that its public health mission is at risk of being buried.	Now that he is in the role he said he didnt covet he will be tasked with completing the job of dismantling environmental and climate regulations.	Scott Pruitt was the most scandal plagued cabinet member in an administration rife with corruption said Christy Goldfuss an environment advisor to Obama who is now at the Center for American Progress.	Congress must ensure the next EPA administrator is not another industry insider.	Pruitts attempt to halt restrictions on emissions of methane a powerful greenhouse gas was stymied by the courts as were proposed delays to stricter limits of lead in paint and hazy ozone in urban areas.	True
If we really want to protect our economy well move aggressively toward 100 clean energy.	Although these industries are the main source of the carbon emissions that are causing global warming the speakers boasted the US would expand production for the sake of global energy security and planned a new fleet of coal plants with technology it hoped to export to other countries.	I cant believe they are putting profits over the planet and profits over people.	To achieve economic growth and eradicate poverty all energy uses are important and they will be utilised unapologetically he said.	Coal usage in the US just hit a 39 year low.	True
Mother Jonesasked an expert to decipher this nonsense and you can read his analysis here.	Aswildfirescontinue torageacross the Westduring a brutally hotsummer on Thursday the US Forest Service released itsnewforest fire management strategy thatfocuses on science and thechanging climate.	Additionally in his op ed the Secretary directly addressed longer hotter drier seasons in the opening paragraphs.Its true that Zinke changed his tuneafter his earlier comments Zinke told reportersThursday that climate change has played a role in the fires and that global temperatures are rising.	Its a breath of fresh air to see science instead of politics inserted into forest and fire management saidKirin Kennedy associatelegislative director for lands and wildlife at the Sierra Club in a statement.	In itthe service writes Of particular concern are longer fire seasons and the rising size and severity of wildfires along with the growing risk to lives homes natural resources and other values.	False
It called for the decarbonization of the economy and100 percent clean energy over the next decade.	Im perfectly willing to take on giant corporations.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	Its a danger to the air we breathe.	When we are in the White House we will end the era of fossil fuels and that includes fracking Ten Democrat candidates participated in CNNs seven hour climate change town hall Wednesday and manysignaled support for the implementation of a carbon tax as well as plastic straw bans actions on meat consumption and the end of fracking.	True
At his public announcement Trump said Im getting rid of some of these ridiculous rules and regulations which are killing our companies and our jobs.	And the areas that will be hit the hardest are in Trump country the coal mining regions of West Virginia.	Our state is beholden to coal.	Our politicians are beholden to coal.	In West Virginia coal is popular and politicians who support coal get elected.	False
South Carolina Gov.	Rick Scott another Trump ally.	Mace said she is concerned both with potential environmental damage and the possible threat to South Carolina's 20 billion tourism industry much of which centers around the coast.	The drilling issue has created strange political bedfellows along the East Coast with Democrats and Republicans in some areas united over the issue.	When you have every mayor every community saying 'We don't want this' and now you're going to shove seismic testing down our throats?	False
I believe the climate is changing.	Plans include raising coastal infrastructure protecting vulnerable supply chains and increasing disaster training.	It also shows that the military is on the front lines of the consequences of rising temperatures.	Every building has severe damage.	However Lengyel waffled on humanitys role in shaping the climate behind these storms.	False
Speaking at an eventcommemoratingMartin Luther King Day that monthOcasio Cortez asserted thatclimate change constituted our World War II and added Millennials and people you know Gen Z and all these folks that will come after us are looking up and were like The world is gonna end in 12 years if we dont address climate change and your biggest issue is how are we gonna pay for it?'	Ocasio Cortez who is set to unveil the plan with Massachusetts Democratic Sen.Ed Markey told her fellow representatives in a letter that the Green New Deal calls for anational social industrial and economic mobilization at a scale not seen since World War II.	To coverwhat would presumably be a gargantuan cost it envisions financing by the federal government using a combination of the Federal Reserve a new public bank or system of regional and specialized public banks public venture funds and such other vehicles or structures that the select committee deems appropriate in order to ensure that interest and other investment returns generated from public investments made in connection with the plan will be returned to the treasury reduce taxpayer burden and allow for more investment.	Its a daunting task and Im not sure that the authors of the Green New Deal fully comprehend how much theyll need Clack said.	Next week we plan to release a resolution that outlines the scope and scale of the Green New Deal Ocasio Cortez said in the letter adding that the country's near totaleconomic transformationshould take approximately ten years.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The study produced by EPA scientists andpublished in the journal Nature Climate Change concluded that climate change will affect 22 major sectors in the United States including human health infrastructure and agriculture and that the damages in some sectors are estimated to range in the hundreds of billions of US dollars annually by the end of the century if we do nothing and allow carbon emissions to remain high.	Climate change is real.	It is a threat to America and to all of humanity.	Currently Trump is trying to create a senior level government panel that would oppose the scientific facts of climate change and instead promote baseless propaganda from pro pollution crackpots.	False
Go and explain to developing countries why they should continue living in poverty and not be like Sweden.	No one has explained to Greta that the modern world is complex and different and ... people in Africa or in many Asian countries want to live at the same wealth level as in Sweden.	Climate change is an issue which is strongly related to security and peace.	In her UN speech Greta blasted governments for thinking only of money as she said the world was sleepwalking into a climate catastrophe.	She raged People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing we are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and the fairy tale of endless economic growth.	False
You know for too long there's been this conventional wisdom that you've got to choose between economic growth and environmental protection Energy Secretary Rick Perry said during a July speech on the environment that avoided any mention of climate change.	It's always been this country and this country that leads just like you reminded people last Thursday the greatness of America the innovation of America.	And the future of this world will rely greatly upon America and this administration.	Mr. Trump has long advocated for the auto industry and his administration has emphasized that environmental concerns cannot trump economic considerations.	Given the importance Congress placed on the authority of DOT and EPA for motor vehicle fuel economy and nationwide vehicle emissions standards under federal law we urge you to act immediately to disassociate CARB from the commitments made by the four automakers the letter added.	True
That includes financial help to make sure that happens.	It's in their drinking water and it's in their soil.	The Trump administration's proposed budget calls for a 31 cut to the budget including cuts to the agency's environmental justice program.	The Agency's press release quoted Pruitt saying I'm focused on getting EPA back to the basics of protecting human health and the environment and one of my top priorities is delivering real results for the people of East Chicago.'	Pruitt went on Since I was sworn in as administrator funding has been secured for drinking water infrastructure upgrades in East Chicago filters and bottled water have been provided to residents and cleanup of contaminated soil has resumed.	False
It can be summed up in one word confusion.	The premise was that the industrial economies were most responsible for the greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and that developing countries needed to continue using fossil fuels for the immediate future to grow their economies.	Other history contradicts the idea that the United States signed onto an out of balance deal.	Then came the election of Donald Trump.	As international leaders gathered in New York for this weeks meeting of the United Nations General Assembly they got another taste of the Trump Administrations leadership style.	True
It can strengthen United States company's competitiveness in the global markets.	Washington CNN President Donald Trump spent an hour Thursday talking about his commitment to economic growth and national stability as he announced the decision to back out of the Paris Climate Accord.	Most businesses would think that working on the climate issues can and has been creating jobs said Perciasepe.	For many the administration's reluctance to deal with the idea of climate change comes down to one thought that economic growth and climate awareness cannot go hand in hand.	Where Obama's 2016 proclamations discussed the impacts of global warming including drought and rising sea levels Trump's focused on energy production fisheries management and tourism with no mention of climate change.	False
The only force that I know of on the planet that can deliver innovation as quickly as we need it is the free enterprise system said former Rep. Bob Inglis R S.C. now the executive director of RepublicEn a group urging Republicans to support a carbon tax.	A steep enough global economy wide price on carbon could do it but thats not likely to happen said Taylor the president of the libertarian Niskanen Center.	Last yearSens.	In a surprise move Gov.	A number of insurgent left wing Democrats running in the 2018 midterms including star New York City congressional candidate Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are coalescing around a so called Green New Deal a loose set of proposals to spend trillions in federal dollars on renewable energy projects coastal fortifications and home weatherization retrofits.Polling released last month shows swelling support for a federal policy guaranteeing a high wage job in a green industry to anyone who wants one.	True
Pouring toxic waste into rivers filling the air with noxious fumes polluting forests and open countrysidethese are signs of a war on the environment and sadly they can still be found in certain nations.	The essay by Nathan Schneider appearing in the May 31 issue of America titled Trumps war on the environment is a war on the young and the unborn makes the incredible case that withdrawing from the Paris agreement constitutes a war on future generations tantamount to genocide.	The fact that a president keeps his promises is usually considered a good thing.	During his presidential campaign Donald Trump promised Americans that if elected he would make the United States energy independent and get out of the Paris climate deal.	That doesnt put them at war with the environment and much less at war with the young and the unborn.	False
Under this administration weve ended the war on American energy.	My action today will cut through the destructive permitting and denials Trump said during the signing of the executive orders at the International Union of Operating Engineers International Training and Education Center a union run facility in Crosby Texas.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Trump's developing an addiction to executive orders that rubberstamp these climate killing projects said Brett Hartl government affairs director at the center.	When states say 'no' to the development of natural gas pipelines they force utilities to curb safe and affordable service and refuse access to new customers including new businesses said Karen Harbert president and CEO at the American Gas Association.	False
As for the water it's Trump vs. the Delta smelt an endangered fish scientists argue can only be saved if the dammed waters are allowed to flow into the ocean instead of being used to irrigate the farms and homes of California residents.	It's not a good week for the Delta smelt.	Trump a proud climate change skeptic attributes the fires to lousy management.	Trump wants to redistribute that water to Californians he says.	Trump threatened to withhold future federal aid if Californiadoes not get on the ball implying that the state's environmental woes were its own fault.	False
The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate.	As relief they want the government to pursue policies to keep warming in check.	Ann Carlson a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests theres something there that piques the courts interest.	Asked for comment the Department of Justice pointed to comments made by Jeffrey Wood a political appointee at the DOJ handling environmental cases who spoke about the Juliana case at a law conference last week.	In our view the Oregon lawsuit is an unconstitutional attempt to use a single court to control the entire nations energy and climate policy Wood said adding the plaintiffs in Oregon are ignoring the fact that clean and responsible production and use of fossil fuels remains vital to the health and well being of the American people.	False
Under Trump the pace of leasing public lands for oil and gas development has surged.	The decision is the first significant check on the climate impact of the Trump administrations energy first agenda that has opened up vast swaths of public land for mining and drilling.	Every acre of our public land sold to the oil and gas industry is another blow to the climate making this ruling a powerful reality check on the Trump administration and a potent tool for reining in climate pollution.	The administration also plans to make large portions of the Atlantic available for oil and gas development and the interior department has been criticized for favoring the energy industry.	Drilling had been stalled on more than 300000 acres of public land in Wyoming after it was ruled the Trump administration violated environmental laws by failing to consider greenhouse gas emissions.	False
The question is what are we going to do about it and at what cost?	Christina DeConcini director of government affairs for the environmental group World Resources Institute said the US needs a fact based approach for how to address this clear and present danger to America's infrastructure homes and businesses.	The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non competitive.	In a now infamous 2012 tweet Trump claimed that global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing non competitive.	Climate change is not just a threat to our planet's future it's a threat to our communities today.	False
From there it can be shipped to the Gulf Coast and potentially lucrative markets abroad.	It has the capacity to move half of the oil produced daily in North Dakota the nations second leading producer behind Texas.	Todays decision is a disappointing continuation of a historic pattern Other people get all the profits and the tribes get all the risk and harm said Jan Hasselman an Earthjustice attorney representing the tribe in an ongoing federal lawsuit through which Standing Rock and three other tribes still hope to shut down the pipeline.	The 3.8 billion pipeline built by Texas based Energy Transfer Partners has been operating since June 1 moving oil from North Dakota through South Dakota and Iowa to a distribution point in Illinois.	Energy industry officials applauded Boasbergs ruling with North Dakota Petroleum Council President Ron Ness calling the pipeline a critical part of American energy infrastructure.	False
who staked out a climate policy based on a bill to force public companies to disclose financial risk from warming or regulations to curb emissions.	In the lead up to the 2018 midterm elections the fossil fuel industry spent 100 million to crush pro climate ballot measures across the West and to prop up candidates who supported increased oil and gas extraction.	The good news is the American people are beginning to stand up and fight back.	The bill included 7 billion in targeted infrastructure and environmental investments in fossil fuel communities and called for union labor protections for workers on federally backed green jobs.	We need millions of people all over this country to stand up and demand fundamental changes in our energy policy in order to protect our kids and our grandchildren and the planet Sanders told HuffPost by phone.	False
In addition to the Air Force the water district lawsuits name 10 firms they say were associated with providing chemicals to the base Elementis Chromium Inc. Occidental Chemical Corp. Honeywell Inc. BASF Corp. PPG Inc. E.I.	Water districts are constantly balancing risks against cost he said adding Theyre committed to delivering water that is as free as possible of contaminants but doing so is expensive.	Sacramento Suburban seeks to recover the substantial costs necessary to protect the public and restore its damaged drinking water supply the water districts lawsuit filed in federal court in Sacramento says as part of its claim seeking 1.1 billion in damages.	The lawsuits demands more than 1.4 billion to clean up the polluted wells install treatment equipment and replace wells that have been decommissioned for being polluted with chromium 6.	Contaminated with plating wastes solvents acids waste oils paint thinners strippers and sludges and other hazardous compounds the lawsuits stated.	False
President Donald Trump promised to lessen regulations on coal mines to put miners back to work.	Its the latest move by the Trump administration to ease the regulatory burden on the coal industry.	UWAG argues the regulation will cause negative impacts on jobs due to the excessive costs of compliance which were grossly underestimated by EPA and regulatory burdens forcing plant closures.	Trump claimed he wanted EPA to go back to basics and focus on clean air and water in his Administration but one of the first actions by his EPA Administrator is an attempt to gut an important water pollution safeguard Hitt said.	Pruitt was responding to a petition sent by the Utility Water Action Group UWAG urging the Trump administration to rescind its Effluent Limitations Guidelines for coal fired power plants.	False
Watch the interview below via YouTube.	Wallace responded by asking But dont you think the fact that we have these coal power plants belching carbon emissions into the air you dont think that plays a role?	What if in fact the Earth is warming what if it is causing dramatic climate change and that we as humans through carbon emissions are contributing to it?	Once again Pruitt took the question as an opportunity to criticize the Obama administration saying that in the past there has been a lack of commitment to state partnership.	The Fox News Sunday anchor went on to reference a report from the U.N. that says it is 95 percent likely that human activity has caused the majority of the warming that has taken place since the mid 20th century.	False
The United States is still a party to the 1992 UNFCCC which oversees the Paris agreement although Trump announced in June that he would withdraw the nation from the global climate pact and cease funding the Green Climate Fund which supports clean energy and climate adaptation projects in vulnerable countries.	The cable also said diplomats should make clear that the United States wants to help other countries use fossil fuels which have been linked to global warming.	Framework Convention on Climate Change as well as the scientific body the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.	The 30 member Senate panel which allocates federal funds to various government agencies and organizations approved a 51 billion spending bill for the State Department and foreign operations which included an amendment to continue funding the U.N.	The United States has usually contributed to around 20 percent of the UNFCCC budget.	False
California Democratic Gov.	This has to do with active forest management.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	Combined with drought insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality the op ed continues.	Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke began advocating similar policy prescriptions earlier in 2018 after President Donald Trump blamed Californias bad environmental laws for creating a wildfire prone environment.RELATED Trump Administration Is Taking Its Fight Against Bad Environmental Laws Straight To California California forests have grown drier and less healthy from overcrowded trees infestations of bark beetles and the effects of climate change the LA Timeswrites.	False
They want the government toprepare an accounting of the nations greenhouse gas emissions and prepare and implement an enforceable national remedial plan for reducing carbon emissions.	Its objections were first raised during the Obama administration.	WASHINGTON The Supreme Court refused the Trump administration's request Friday to block21 young people from putting a warming planet on trial in Eugene Ore. Theaction keeps alive at least for nowanunusual lawsuit begun in 2015 to force a change in federal environmental policyby declaring a climate systemcapable of sustaining human life a civil right.The lawsuit was broughton behalf of children now ages 11 22as well as future generations.	Their alleged injuries stem from the cumulative effects of CO2emissions from every source in the world over decades.	Legal whiz kid or partisan hack?	False
Participants included the CEOs of Italian oil giant ENI British Petroleum ExxonMobil and Norways Statoil as well as scientists and managers of major investment funds.	He urged participants to use their demonstrated aptitude for innovation to address two of the great needs in todays world the care of the poor and the environment.	At the same time it is an immense opportunity to encourage efforts to ensure fuller access to energy by less developed countries as well as diversifying energy sources and promoting the sustainable development of renewable forms of energy.	That includes transitioning to efficient clean energy sources.	Francis said that modern society with its massive movement of information persons and things requires an immense supply of energy.	False
Experts say the answer lies in their herd like behaviour.	While the exact reasons remain unclear experts say many different factors could play a part.	While Dr Stockin says that global warming may be playing apart in the rising sea temperatures most experts say that it's important not to jump to conclusions about the role of humans in these cases.	So what could be behind these cases?	It means that if one pilot whale encounters a problem then it can have an impact on the entire group.	False
The Obama administration released a plan to clamp down on methane emissions in 2014 which included programs to cut emissions from dairy operations.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The question then becomes How do you eliminate emissions from cows sheep and other animals?	RELATED Alexandria Ocasio Cortez Green New Deal Is About Social Justice Being a non binding resolution the Green New Deal doesnt offer any specifics on how livestock emissions would be phased down or eliminated.	Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs newly released Green New Deal resolution has gotten a lot of attention for its 100 percent renewable energy goal but the bill also vaguely references another source of emissions.	False
An early overview of the plan since removed from Ocasio Cortez website promised economic security for all who are unable or unwilling to work swore to sideline the private sector in all environmental decision making and even vowed to eliminate farting cows.	In addition to slashing carbon emissions the deal calls for widespread wealth redistribution to counteract systemic injustices and includes provisions for universal healthcare and taxpayer funded college tuition.	Living in the world as it is isnt an argument against working towards a better future.	The legislation has been ridiculed from all sides for its proposed abolition of air travel and fossil fuel powered vehicles as well as its estimated cost of over 50 trillion over twice the worth of the entire US economy.	The world as it is has the option of taking the subway rather than a taxi Moore continued.	False
At around the same time his campaign cautioned voters not to turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines an ironic coincidence or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event?	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Not sure after tonight who has less time to live Biden or the planet said one.	Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding commented another.	Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audiences eyes at the climate change town hall literally as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half truths and excuses.	False
According to the ETC website the groups goal is to accelerate change towards low carbon energy systems that enable robust economic development and limit the rise in global temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius.	In its report ETC insists that investments of up to 500 billion per annum would not pose a major macroeconomic challenge to nations accepting the call to fund the project.	The chief avenue the group advocates to cut global warming is to force governments around the world to place an ever growing tax on carbon emissions as a means to force change in energy policy.	ETC claims that the world must fundinvestment in renewables and other low carbon technologies some 6 trillion higher 300 billion per year while the largest required increases of almost 9 trillion 450 billion per year will be in more efficient energy saving equipment and buildings.	The group is made up of energy company executives activists investment bankers Al Gore and others who would financially benefit from the immense influx of funds the Daily Caller reports.	False
TheGreen New Dealand its proponents aim to tackle the intertwined issues of social and environmental justice in our age of anthropogenic climate change.	When capitalism stumbles badly producing degraded lands and gaping inequalities socialistic solutions rise in popularity because their incentives are not tied to profits.	This is not the first time socialism new deals and the environment have intersected.	Much the way todays Green New Deal seeks to redress both economic and environmental impoverishment Marshall sought to replace private profit with a broader public spiritedness that aimed for long term stability ending cut and run practices and ultimately strengthening communities.	When massive problems develop cross jurisdictional lines and are associated with market failures big government responses can seem like the only possible solution.	False
This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you me and the whole world.	Dozens of countries have extraordinary tropical forests but three stand out Brazil Indonesia and the Democratic Republic of Congo.	Dozens of countries have extraordinary tropical forests but three stand out Brazil Indonesia and the Democratic Republic of Congo.	We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster not just locally but globally.	False
For a bank in the regulatory environment BNP Paribas is facing an aggressive climate policy makes business sense.	Were a long standing partner to the energy sector and were determined to support the transition to a more sustainable world BNP Paribas CEO Jean Laurent Bonnaf said in a statement.As an international bank our role is to help drive the energy transition and contribute to the decarbonization of the economy.	In 2015 the company was ordered to pay 8.9 billion to the U.S. for violating sanctions against Sudan Cuba and Iran.	At that point coal was becoming an unprofitable investment and banks faced mounting pressure from environmentalists to stop supporting the dirtiest fuels in the lead up the Paris climate agreement.	Last month JPMorgan Chase became the target of a new campaign urging it to end financing for companies that drill tar sands a particularly dirty source of oil that forms the backbone of Canadas industry.	False
It's a sad day for public health and the EPA but missionaccomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries Ken Cook president of the Environmental Working Group said in a statement following the vote.	As you can see we're continuing the president's agenda post haste.	While leading President Donald Trump's deregulatory agenda Wheeler also has emphasized the agency's work to clean up Superfund sites and for the first time begin regulating a set ofharmful chemicalsfound in drinking water systems that serve millions of Americans.	He alsorecommended freezing miles per gallon standards for cars and light trucks after the 2020 model yearand preventing California and other states from setting tougher standards saying it will improve safety andkeep prices lower for consumers.	Though not as controversial or ethically compromised as PruittWheeler is opposed by a number of environmental groups who sharply criticize the president's aggressive efforts to undo Obama era rules they say are designed to protect the environment and address climate change.	False
It's made us more sustainable environmentally and also economically.	He says times are tough for dairy farmers so this gives him a new stream of revenue.	We only use about 10 percent of what we make and the rest is fed onto the electricity grid Melnik explains.	which has installed a Grind2Energy system.	It's an industrial strength grinder that gobbles up all the scraps of food the store can't sell explains Karen Franczyk who is the sustainability program manager for Whole Foods' North Atlantic region.	False
The weakening of automobile standards which is a win for car manufacturers and a blow to environmentalists also sets up a fight between the Trump administration and the state of California which says it plans to stick with the stricter rules.	Pushing to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord Pruitt pushed the White House to leave the Paris climate deal stood beside the President in the Rose Garden when he announced the decision and after the President spoke offered his own remarks.	Here are some of Pruitt's key changes Like others in the Trump administration Pruitt has repeatedly highlighted uncertainty about the role that humans have played in global warming a view that is at odds with the vast majority of scientific evidence.	Pruitt announced in October his decision to withdraw from the Clean Power Plan the Obama era rule intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from power plants across the country.	The decades old policy was opposed by fossil fuel companies but environmental groups argued that its withdrawal would result in more pollution.	False
It is the most destructive threat to America and mankind.	Climate has been a big part of our campaign and we mentioned our carbon fee and dividend plan during the debate last week.	A DNC debate focused on climate change would show the world that America intends to lead again on this issue and would be a smart place to discuss the key tenets of the Green New Dealinfrastructure green jobs and clean air and waterand how to put a price on carbon she told the Daily Beast.	Jay Inslee who has put global warming at the center of his campaign.	Steve Bullock former Colorado Gov.	False
In a video that was shared widely including by celebrities such as James Corden the British writer argues that the only way to help the environment is to change the big structural political economic stuff.	Monbiot concludes that we need to go straight to the heart of capitalism and overthrow it.	The amount of energy per unit of GDP in the United States has fallen steadily for several decades.	When they dont save they change course unlike politicians who fear public embarrassment and throw good money after bad.	Conservatives understand this.	False
for failing to properly control methane pollution a greenhouse gas.	His legal team was one of the first in the nation to target banks for sponsoring nontransparent trading platforms called dark pools which allowed high speed trading firms to take advantage of investors.	Three years ago he opened an investigation with the Massachusetts attorney general into whether Exxon Mobil deliberately misled the public and investors about the impact of climate change.	In 2015 Mr. Schneidermans office opened an investigation into the mortgage practices of Caliber Home Loans a fast growing lender but has said nothing about the inquiry since then.	In 2016 Mr. Schneiderman and the Securities and Exchange Commission announced a 154 million settlement with Barclays and Credit Suisse to resolve allegations that the banks had permitted traders to misuse their dark pool platforms.	False
What gives you the confidence that if this economy continues to roll the way we think it will that will actually happen?	The Trump administration wants one standard for the country as well as a much more relaxed fuel economy target than the one proposed under President Obama.	I consider it to be an issue that has to be addressed globally.	Already momentum is building in the House for taxing carbon as well as a Green New Deal to fight climate change.	We heard that there was an emissions rise in 2018 which you attributed to a cold winter a hot summer and also to more economic activity said Sen. Shelley Moore Capito R WV.	False
We are currently on track for a world that could displace billions of people from their homes Thunberg warned this week during a speech accepting Amnesty International's Ambassador of Conscience Award.	Support for a school climate strike has since spread across the globe.	Strike organizers have a list of demands that includes respect of indigenous land sustainable agriculture protecting biodiversity environmental justice and a just transition away from fossil fuels and towards renewable energy said 17 year old Baltimore resident and organizer Nadia Nazar.	Paris and its related pledges would undermine U.S. competitiveness his spokesman said.	I agree that we need to ensure that we move forward in a sustainable rational manner said Graves.	False
surprised us was just how rapid the changes have been and the fact that they are very unusual when compared with growth rates in the late 19th and early 20th century.	A Green Island moss bank with icebergs.Credit Matt Amesbury Antarctica is a cold white continent at the bottom of the world.	Or so it has been for thousands of years.	The Antarctic Peninsula is among the most rapidly warming areas in the world with temperatures having increased by almost three degrees Celsius over the last 50 years.	Dr. Matt Amesbury also of the University of Exeter said there were two main findings to take from their new study scale and temperature sensitivity Before now studies have been from single sites but using a transect of sites weve been able to show that this significant response to climate change is pervasive across the whole of the Antarctic Peninsula.	False
The development marks a further step forward for a nascent industry that aims to provide people with real meat without the environmental impact and welfare problems of intensive livestock production.	The Israeli food technology startup Aleph Farms grew the meat on the International Space Station 248 miles 399 km away from any natural resources.	One found that avoiding meat and dairy products was the single biggest way to reduce an individuals environmental impact on the planet.	We can potentially provide a powerful solution to produce the food closer to the population needing it at the exact and right time it is needed.	We are proving that cultivated meat can be produced anytime anywhere in any condition said Didier Toubia co founder and chief executive of Aleph Farms.	False
Ernest Moniz who served as an energy secretary under the Obama administration took part in the summit and said one of the areas of focus was carbon pricing to create market incentives for the transition to a low carbon system.	Energy and investment executives who met with Pope Francis earlier in June stood mostly in agreement that a tax on carbon emissions is the best path forward to combating climate change.	The idea of a carbon tax a fee charged onto companies according to the amount of carbon emissions their plants emit into the atmosphere has been recommended as a market friendly method to controlling CO2 pollution.	In addition a carbon tax would cost over 500000 jobs in manufacturing and more than 1 million jobs by 2030.	Most who took part in the summit agreed that afee on carbon emissions is pivotal in reforming the U.S. energy sector according to an Axios report.	False
Theyre trying to dictate to the world how much coal is used.	We are importing Russian natural gas which is not produced in an environmentally conscious manner.	President Donald Trump is seeking to boost domestic fossil fuels production over the objections of Democrats and environmentalists concerned about pollution and climate change.	They are trying to make international environmental policy Wheeler said of Washington state whose governor Democrat Jay Inslee is running for president on a climate change focused platform.	New York has used the section to delay pipelines that would bring natural gas to New England for example and Washington state has stopped coal export terminals that would open the Asian market for struggling coal companies in Wyoming and other landlocked western states.	False
A recent study found the region has shifted from a warming trend of 0.32 Cdecade during 19791997 to a cooling trend of 0.47 Cdecade during 19992014.	The New York Times has taken warnings about global warming to a whole new level publishing a three part series suggesting a potential apocalypse from melting ice sheets if humans keep pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	I think some kind of major flood happened all over the world and it left an indelible imprint on the collective memory of mankind that got preserved in these stories.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	False
Andreally what were trying to do is affect the bottom line the financial equation for the use of fossil fuels she said.	Lets help bring the death knell to this industry thats done so much harm.	Divest from the fossil fuel industry De Blasio told the Vermont Democrat at the time.	She appeared to contradict herself a few sentences later telling the audience that the intent is really to eliminate the oil industrys license to operate.	We just acted and I want to urge every city every county every state to do the same divest.	False
To find out Daniel O'Neill an economist at the University of Leeds in the United Kingdom and several collaborators came up with 11 indicators that a country has met the needs of its citizens.	Our blog often features stories about efforts to improve life for this planet's 7 billion inhabitants How to make sure everyone has access to clean water and power medical care to stay healthy enough income to feed their kids education for the children so they can fulfill their potential.	The hope was to find at least a few examples of countries that were simultaneously delivering the good life to their citizens while staying within their per capita boundaries for environmental damage in other words using natural resources at a rate that would be sustainable even if every person on the planet matched it.	And this means the strategy of growing the economy basically trying to create new wealth to boost the well being of its underprivileged citizens is ineffective.	Instead says O'Neill generally the countries that do well on the social indicators do so by consuming resources at a level that could not be extended to all people on the planet.	False
Jansen pointed out that the Southern Ocean around Antarctica plays a key role in ocean circulation due to the deep waters in the region leading it to have outsized consequences.	It likely stems from an asteroid impact that rocked the Northern Hemisphere and led to the Younger Dryas climate event.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	Upside down rivers of warm ocean water may be one of the causes of Antarctica's ice shelves breaking up leading to a rise in sea levels.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	False
The resolution has few details but it aims to overhaul the U.S. economy and spread wealth more evenly.	Instead it calls for lots of spending to create among other things infrastructure and transport that don't rely on fossil fuels.	All great American programs everything from The Great Society to The New Deal started with a vision for our future said co sponsor Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y.	Moniz now CEO of Energy Futures Initiative agrees that the U.S. needs to pick up the pace of its shift away from carbon but he calls the decade long time frame impractical.	It calls for a speedy shift in energy generation from fossil fuels to renewable sources like wind and solar and for a fair and just transition for all communities and workers.	False
Trump campaigned on a platform that rejected much of the scientific community's findings on climate change arguing that the Obama administration used climate science too often to restrict business growth.	Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget told CNN that climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media.	Trump pulled out of the Paris Climate accords earlier this year and had previously had called climate change a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese.	Hurricane Irma is of epic proportion perhaps bigger than we have ever seen Trump tweeted as Irma moved closer to Florida.	And on Thursday in Florida before his comments aboard Air Force One about climate change Trump said the people of Florida experienced something the likes of which we can say really say nobody's ever seen before.	False
We've become much richer country and that's a good thing not a bad thing because that great wealth allows us to take care of people' Trump said.	He said the domestic industry is creating 'tremendous wealth and LNG is being sought over all over Europe and all over the world.'	I want clean water I want a wealthy country.	I want a spectacular country with jobs with pensions with so many things and that's what we're getting so I want to be very careful at the same time at the same time it's very important to me very important to me we have to maintain this incredible this incredible place that we've all built.	'We can take care of people that we couldn't afford taking care of the past because of the great wealth we can't let that wealth is taken away clean air clean water thank you very much everybody I appreciate it thank you' he concluded.	False
Do you know what?	According toDaniel Rothman professor of geophysics in the MIT Department of Earth Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences and co director of MITs Lorenz Center we are fast approaching thresholds of catastrophe in the carbon cycle which make doom almost inevitable.	But before you ring up your grandchildren and warnthem to cancel the marquee theyve booked for their 100th birthday celebrations perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothmans cheery prediction.	Its saying that if left unchecked the carbon cycle would move into a realm which would be no longer stable and would behave in a way that would be difficult to predict.	First lets not forget it that itis flatly contradicted by the recent bombshell study suggesting that the effects of carbon dioxide on global warming have been overstated that the computer models are running too hot and that were not about to fry any time soon.	False
John Hirschauer is a senior economics studentat Fairfield University a columnist for the Fairfield Mirror and the host of The Outlet with John Hirschauer radio program.	Each individual has values good and bad and they often remain in tension with one another.	We make decisions every day accordingly.	What makes radical environmentalism and its private jet flying propagators so toxic a cultural beast is how high on its adherents totem pole they are willing to place environmental concerns often over some of the most elemental human needs and desires.	What is the goal of a funeral?	False
Analysis Is the war on coal really over?	It informs decision makers.	Scientific evidenceand input iscrucial to policy efforts.	We can debate the issues we can have different viewpointsbut we should all be able to objectively examine the data and look at the evidence ... Now is not the time to turn a blind eye to what science is telling us that climate change and other factors are influencing the health of this estuary ...	The agency officials initially scheduled to speak during the conference areAutumn Oczkowski a research ecologist at the EPAs National Health and Environmental Effects Research Laboratory Atlantic Ecology Division in Rhode Island andRose Martin a postdoctoral fellow at the same EPAlaboratory according to The New York Times which first reported the story.	False
It wasnt just global warming.	Because I heard the U.S. president speak.	But in Washington where science is increasingly political the fact that oceans and atmosphere are warming and that the heat is propelling storms into superstorms has become as sensitive as talking about gun control in the wake of a mass shooting.	In Florida scientists say Gov.	The text box Concerns that the U.S. is dodging questions on global warming.	False
March 14 2017 Gallup poll.	So from that July day in 2008 Jordan waged his own war on the environment Voting to bar greenhouse gasses from Clean Air Act rules voting against enforcing limits on carbon dioxide global warming pollution against tax incentives for renewable electricity and energy conservation against curtailing subsidies for oil and gas company exploration but voting in favor of opening the Outer Continental Shelf to oil drilling.	And in Jordans case that would be Social Security Medicare education health care and the like Programs that benefit folks in his district.	The pledge or vow is the product of Americans for Prosperity the conservative political advocacy group funded by David and Charles Koch.	This is the outfit that went to war with the Obama Administration initiatives to combat global warming.	False
Trump and Pruitt and others of their ilk might have greed and corruption as motives.	Sea level rise is accelerating.	3F of average temperature increase and three feet of sea level rise by 2050.	The EPA matters because climate change is right up there with the national debt as a threat to national security.	Its pure unadulterated selfishness.	False
We would make sure its eliminated and no more subsidies for either one of those either any fossil fuel Biden said Ten Democrat candidates including Biden and Sanders will participate in the CNN hosted climate change town hall Wednesday evening.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	Just to clarify would there be any place for fossil fuels including coal and fracking in a Biden administration Bash asked during Julys Democrat debate in Detroit.	Its a danger to the air we breathe.	We would work it out.	False
The right wing populist Bolsonaro who has shown disdain for protecting the Amazonhome to 3 million species of plants and animals and 1 million or so peoplecame to power in January.	The Amazon is burning at an alarming rate in Brazil with 72843 fires detected so far this year by the countrys space research center INPE.	The sudden spike has prompted renewed concern that the destruction of the Amazon basin is the result of right wing President Jair Bolsonaros environmental policies that dont give much thought to the environment at all.	It came after Inpe published data showing an 88 percent increase in deforestation there in June compared to the same month a year ago.	The Bolsonaro regime has reversed previous governments efforts to enforce environmental regulations and protect what is the largest rainforest in the world.	False
These emerging giants have chosen instead to emphasise the historical responsibility of rich nations to lead the way and provide financing to poor countries.	If there was one time in the history when I would say governments fucked up I would say today in Madrid governments fucked up said Mohamed Adow Director of Power Shift Africa.	China and India the world's No.	Diplomats from rich nations emerging giants and the world's poorest countries each for their own reasons found fault with a draft agreement put forward by host Chile in a botched attempt to strike common ground.	People across the world must rise to save the planet.	False
The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	And its these three things wealth growth and technology which allows humans to thrive on planet Earth not 240 per gallon fuel taxes imposed by an elite that cares not for the masses.	The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	Here were told that the U.S. economy will take a 10 hit by 2100 unless we reduce our carbon emissions.	The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed.	False
