This followed an article published byNewsweek in which two psychologists mused on the human taboo against cannibalism noting thatphilosophers have argued that burying the dead could be wasteful in the context of the fight against world hunger.	Progressive political elites have decided that in order to save the environment ordinary citizens must submit to radical lifestyle changes while those same elites fly around the world on private jets and enrich themselves from trade with China the worlds biggest polluter.	Absent from Bernies argument in favor of curbing the population was an acknowledgment of what itll do to the economy and public services two things that the socialist senator allegedly cares about.	Population control is another solution embraced by geniuses on the left.	Cannibalism for the climate thats how far theyve gone!	True
ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The borderis an ecological theater where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays.	ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The bordersis an ecological theatre where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays.	One of its authors a leading professor from Stanford condemned the US border wall project branding it a 'crime against biodiversity'.	Analysis of the animals that reside in the region reveals the controversial wall could threaten the movement of 1500 animal and plant species that reside in the area.	The authors conclude that 'national security can and must be pursued with an approach that preserves our natural heritage.'	True
Like this story?	Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers.	he said.	Critics of the sale fear the expansion in offshore drilling could devastate marine life and lead to roll backs in environmental protections.	The Center for American Progress a left leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement saying in a statement that offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources.	False
The crisis touches every aspect of our lives.	So must the solution.	The world must wake up.	Thats why we need a to fundamentally transform our society Markey added.	Citizens generally are more concerned about getting a good education obtaining better healthcare and achieving political freedoms than they are tackling climate change according to a 2015 survey from the United Nations.	True
Driven by an anti immigrant agenda the Trump administration is callously putting construction of an environmentally and culturally destructive border wall above water resources for communities on both sides of the border federally protected lands clean air and the lives of hundreds of endangered species all while turning a blind eye to the vital relationships of cross border communities and our longstanding values as a nation she said in a statement.	Trumps wall is a divisive symbol of fear and hatred and it does real harm to the landscape and communities.	Trump wants to scare people into letting him ignore the law and endanger wildlife and people Brian Segee an attorney with the Center for Biological Diversity said in a statement.	Despite sidestepping these laws DHS is committed to responsible environmental stewardship and will continue to assess potential impacts coordinate with relevant stakeholders and to the extent possible offset or mitigate potential impacts department spokesman Carlos Diaz said in an email to HuffPost.	It described the sector which includes some 60 miles of the U.S. Mexico border as an area of high illegal entry for which there is an immediate need to improve current infrastructure and construct additional border barriers and roads.	True
But this has nothing to do with the Paris climate accord.	Everything Schwarzenegger mentions in his short videofrom air pollution to clean water to asthma emphysema and canceris completely unrelated to the Presidents decision to withdraw from the Paris accord.	President Trump says hes pulling out of the Paris climate agreement.	My message to you Mr. President is that as a public servant and especially as a president your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people Schwarzenegger begins.	Meanwhile he should probably think about terminating that video.	False
It declares climate change a national emergency envisions building new solar wind and geothermal power sources across the country and commits 200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	WASHINGTON Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a 16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet warming greenhouse gases.	Mr. Inslees absence could create an opening for another presidential aspirant to seize the mantle of climate candidate.	Jay Inslee of Washington who made climate change the central focus of his campaign announced he was dropping out of the 2020 race.	Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality.	True
What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency.	It is very worrying.	Despite the declaration by President Trump that he intends to take the US out of the deal negotiators meeting in Germany will be aiming to advance and clarify the rulebook of the Paris agreement.	It may be a climate change feedback.	This was not expected in the Paris agreement.	True
Its bloody combat.	But there is perhaps no area where California has been more combative against the White House agenda than the environment.	California Gov.	Jerry Brown ramped up his criticism of President Trump in an interview that aired Monday calling the president a saboteur in the fight to combat climate change and saying that somethings got to happen to this guy.	Speaking to MSNBCs Andrea Mitchell at an environmentalsummitin San Francisco last week Brown tore into Trump for the presidents controversial tweets about the death toll in Puerto Rico from last years Hurricane Maria and urged voters to vote for Democrats in Novembers midterm elections in an effort to thwart Trumps agenda.	True
It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market but The Brando proves it is possible says Prof Graham Miller who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey.	Technology could help here too.	The operation only the second ever will be led by Island Conservation a US NGO that protects endangered species by removing invasive ones.	Led by Dr Herv Bossin of the Institut Louis Malard the programme breeds and releases non biting male mosquitoes infected with a Wolbachia virus that makes wild females who do bite sterile.	Mosquitoes are not the only pests the Tetiaroa Society is working to eradicate.	False
Both lawmakers were responding to a question asked by Axios Amy Harder during the event.	Theres a resolution that has a dream but theres no bill theres no contents at all.	The top lawmakers on the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources were unified in their opposition to the Green New Deal and unreadiness to back taxes on carbon dioxide emissions.	Murkowski said the Green New Deal was distracting from bipartisan efforts to fight global warming.	Republicans on the other hand want to get Democrats on the record in support of a proposal they see as socialism.	True
And in a visit last week to East Chicago Indianawhich is grappling with a lead contamination crisis affecting both the water and soil Pruitt reportedly denied to a resident of the town that Region 5 was on the chopping block.	There are a lot of folks who simply wont do the move.	My question is Why us?	About a month ago the union got three press calls in the same day asking if it had heard there was announcement Region 5 might be closed.	Mikulka the EPA employees union president said shuttering Region 5 would be an effective way to hobble an agency whose mission is largely at odds with the Trump administrations deregulation orientedanti climate protection stance.	True
Gun control is perhaps the most widely known and publicized issue of the 2019 election.	It remains to be seen if any other of the other proposed bills will spark as intense a reaction.	However some push back from state residents might be stronger than expected as the anticipated assault weapons ban has caused 94 counties to declare themselves second amendment sanctuaries.	Following a shooting in Virginia Beach in June Northam called a special session of the legislature in order to address gun violence.	HB 145 mandates that the Virginia Department of Education come up with school board model policies concerning the treatment of transgender students in public elementary and secondary schools that address common issues regarding transgender students in accordance with evidence based best practices.	True
Fox who has clashed with Trump since last year's presidential campaign said the U.S. leader's decision condemns this generation and those to come and would leave a dark legacy just to satisfy your greediness.	In Mexico former President Vicente Fox criticized Trump's move saying on Twitter He's declaring war on the planet itself.	World leaders reacted with dismay Thursday to President Trump's announcement that he was pulling out of the Paris climate accord while three prominent European heads of state rejected his suggestion that the deal could be renegotiated.	He said I do respect this decision but I do think it is an actual mistake both for the U.S. and for our planet.	French President Emmanuel Macron German Chancellor Angela Merkel and and Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentilonisaid in a joint statement that they regretted the United States' decision to withdraw from the accord but affirmed our strongest commitment to implement its measures and encouraged all our partners to speed up their action to combat climate change.	True
This announcement drew fierce criticism from world leaders and activists with former UN secretary general Ban Ki moon accusing Trump of standing on the wrong side of history.	As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of carbon footprints and preaching renewable energy they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world.	In June President Donald Trump announced the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accord arguing that it was a deeply flawed document that put American workers at an economic disadvantage.	Most signatories Solomon notes in an essay in last Fridays Financial Post are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios.	Ms. Lagarde is no stranger to exaggerated predictions having proposed in 2016 that a Brexit victory would lead to 500000 job losses while suggesting that Brexit voters are narrow minded and calling for a united Europe.	True
Over the decades disputes arose over the government's changing definition of navigable with opponents complainingthe definition was too broad.	The debate over the water rule was part of a larger political flashpoint over environmental issues during the 2016 presidential campaign as Trump tried to appeal to rural Americans exasperated by federal regulations and the loss of property rights.	While the broader debate centered on climate change and clean air rules the waters rule was nearly as polarizing because its broad application could affect farming construction and other activities near federally regulated waters.	The issue has often come down to the definition of navigable waters under the Clean Water Act.	In a Roosevelt Room ceremony with farmers and lawmakers at the time Trump called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation.	True
The divergence shows how years of political squabbling over global warming including disputes over its existence have grown deep roots distorting the way Americans view the world around them.	The divide will play into the 2020 election as Democratic hopefuls seek to sell aggressive proposals to reduce or even end fossil fuel consumption by drawing links between climate change and recent floods storms and wildfires.	Last year the Yale program which carries out scientific research on public knowledge about climate change set out to map the partisan divide on how people perceive the effects of global warming across the United States.	Two years ago he announced the United States would withdraw from a global pact to reduce carbon emissions the Paris Climate Agreement a deal Trump said could damage the U.S. economy.	But they are worlds apart when it comes to their opinion of the weather.	True
These are the inextricable demands of a resistance as powerful as it is diverse and as strong as it is resilient.	Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people.	This spring throughout a week of powerful demonstrations from Earth Day to May Day this resistance will blossom.	Our policy developed in partnership with mainstream environmental groups labor unions public health organizations and other stakeholders represents some of the best of what a unified national resistance could create Comprehensive equitable action against the biggest existential threat of our generation climate change.	Some environmental leaders are responding by formulating a lowest common denominator strategy on climate like revenue neutral approaches hoping to magically create a middle ground by bowing to the altar of limited government.	True
And each is a threat to the life liberty and pursuit of happiness guaranteed to every person.	When the air we breathe and the water we drink are imminently threatened so that corporations can make more money life liberty and the pursuit of happiness are on the line.	Rolling back environmental protection regulations and willful denying of scientific data to forestall efforts to fight climate change is a direct threat to each persons right to life liberty and pursuit of happiness.	When the environment poses an unnecessary threat to ones health life is denied.	Securing the long term future of civil rights for LGBT people womens access to heath care and the flourishing of our environment that we may all enjoy life liberty and the pursuit of happiness rests not only on getting to the bottom of the Trump Russia scandal and draining the swamp in his administration along with the scandal covering right denying profit seeking in Congress but also on preventing the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court.	True
Energy Secretary Rick Perry offered little explanation when protesters pressed him to explain his position on climate change at an energy conference on Tuesday.	You are a climate denier said the first demonstrator as members of the audience booed and called for her to sit down and to get her out of here.	Undeterred the protester kept shouting questions at Perry who then told her If youll sit down young lady Ill finish my remarks.	In climate science unresolved questions remain issues that currently lack conclusive evidence.	During his EIA conference speech on Tuesday Perry was interrupted a second time by a protester who also called him a climate denier.	True
The administration argues he doesn't have jurisdiction.	On Friday he heard two and a half hours of arguments and saidthat he was leaning toward deciding he has jurisdiction in a lawsuit that alleges the Trump administration overreached in waiving laws that require environmental and other reviews.	Now Curiel will be hearing a case about the wall.	'It's time to stop Trump's hateful bombast and his executive overreach here in San Diego before it goes any further.	A lawsuit has been filed by the Center for Biological Diversityenvironmental groups and the State of California against theU.S.	True
Theres an issue with that.	The main concern is the desires of the constituency who are massively opposed to this project Riggi told The Daily Caller New Foundation.	But were not being given the option of deciding how to do it ourselves.	He wrote an editorial in a local paper this week pledging to accept no quarter in the fight against the Lighthouse Wind farm.	The projectcould harm with the regions economy potentially creating problems fora nearbyU.S.	False
The American Petroleum Institute a defendant in the case disagreed with the ruling.	U.S. District Court Judge Sharon Gleason in a decision late Friday threw out Mr. Trump's executive order that overturned the bans that comprised a key part of Obama's environmental legacy.	He said it is meant to be flexible and sensible and not intended to bind one president with decisions made by another when determining offshore stewardship as needs and realities change over time.	Acting Assistant U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Wood said during a hearing before Gleason in November that environmental groups were misinterpreting the intent of the law written in 1953.	Earthjustice represented numerous environmental groups that sued the Trump administration over the April 2017 executive order reversing the drilling bans.	True
Yet in public it vociferously fought regulations and policies that would have limited fossil fuel emissions while publicly questioning the science behind climate change.	Wassermanwrote an op edin January for the California paper fleshing out specifics about the probes into Exxons climate research.	It veered off and crashed into the Bligh Reef causing Exxon more than 3.4 billion through 2008 in cleanup costs and court settlements.	Floating chunks of ice forced the tanker out of its primary shipping lane the paper noted.	Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project the group that conducted the papers report was also involved in an investigation last November targeting Exxons climate change research.	True
While questions remain Thursdays news represents an important advance in assessing the habitability of Enceladus Woods Hole Oceanographic Institutions Jeffrey Seewald wrote in a companion article.	A press conference viewer asking questions of the scientists via Twitter asked if NASA was talking about bacteria or algae or giant squids.	We still have a long way to go in our understanding said Seewald who was not involved in the study.	Voytek said her money is still on Europa for potential life versus Enceladus since Europa is much older and any potential life there has had more time to emerge.	Launched in 1997 and now finally running low on fuel Cassini is drawing ever closer to its demise.	True
Critics of Trumps energy policies seized on the opportunity to criticize the president for his Earth Day message.	One of the biggest complaints from protesters is Trump has proposed cutting 54 billion from numerous federal government agencies including a cut to the Environmental Protection Agency that tops 30 percent.	According to a report by Fox News the order also chips away at other regulations including scrapping language on the social cost of greenhouse gases.	Public radio show host Al Letson wrote How will you preserve the natural beauty of the land if you dismantle the Nathan Bernard from Brooklyn New York replied on Twitter You say Happy as you prepare to literally blow up the entire earth.	Trumps Earth Day messages come as thousands of protesters across the country have taken to the streets to defend science against what they claim are anti science policies and proposals from the White House.	False
The proposals electrified a static debate that too often ranged from outright denialism of climate change by some to dubious market fixes offered by others.	But GOP opposition to a Green New Deal the grassroots effort to dramatically cut greenhouse gas emissions that has energized activists for months was on full display.	Despite years of partisan bickering over the realities of climate change the idea proved popular.	Impossible.	Glamour Rep. John Shimkus R Ill. long a climate change denier who in the past has relied on Bible verses to make his case argued against the Green New Deal at a House hearing on Wednesday.	True
Last week for example she came under fire from the Sunrise Movement and other climate change activists when she initially declined to participate in the televised Sept. 4 climate change town hall to attend a fundraiser.	She wants to distinguish herself from other candidates that have already laid out climate plans with her own approach that plays to her strengths focusing on environmental justice and enforcement said one of the sources.	At the same time it is intended to assuage environmental activists worried that she has downplayed climate change on the campaign trail.	Since then both New York and Massachusetts have pursued cases against the oil company.	She also reportedly launched an investigation in 2016 into whether Exxon Mobil lied to the public and shareholders about the risks of climate change though her office never confirmed the probe.	True
Im sure theres giant corruption going on.	So saysJames Lovelock 98 one of the worlds pre eminent environmentalists in a wide ranging interview on todays Delingpole podcast for Breitbart.	But this is nonsense says Lovelock.	There is global warming.	His change of heart was brought aboutpartly by being in Oslo when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.	False
Apparently Sloans arguments and those of like minded analysts prevailed on policy makers and the country rejected the CET with its taxpayer funded subsidizing of renewables.	The current state of affairs has not only undermined Germanys climate policy but also jeopardizes Germanys international reputation as a climate leader Solomon asserts.	The populist backlash a revulsion at top down governments laden with jet setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses has swept America with Trumps election Great Britain with Brexit much of Europe and Australia.	A second blow to disciples of the Paris Climate Accord was last weeks Austrian election Solomon argues which saw two conservative parties with no interest in climate change it wasnt even an election issue come in first and second making them likely to form a pro carbon coalition government.	Earlier this month the prominent Australian economist Judith Sloan wrote a scathing essay decrying renewable energy as the greatest scam being perpetrated against taxpayers and consumers greater even than Ponzi Madoffor Enron.	True
Two White House spokespersons did not respond to a question Monday about what Trump's tweet meant.	Trump complained that the water is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean and called for clearing forests as a means of stopping fires from spreading.	It also allows federal agencies to help battle the 17 major fires burning throughout the state including what is now known as the 'Carr fire' which is just 40 per cent contained and has incinerated more than 1000 homes.	But the president's claim about water drew a combination of laughing and head scratching on Sunday although years of drought may be one factor in the fires' quick spread.	So Im not sure what he was recommending' he told the San Francisco Chronicle.	False
During a press conference Friday officials behind the report repeatedly declined to answer questions about the timing of its release and why it contradicts public statements from Trump.	He is a flawed character Stephen Lacey editor in chief of the magazine GreenTechMedia said on his podcast The Energy Gang last year.	Gore who since his time as vice president has become an outspoken advocate for the need to counteract the effects of global warming said in a statement that the White House was trying to bury this critical U.S. assessment of the climate crisis by releasing it the day after Thanksgiving.	Unbelievably deadly and tragic wildfires rage in the West hurricanes batter our coasts and the Trump administration chooses the Friday after Thanksgiving to try and bury this critical U.S. assessment of the climate crisis Gore said in a statement that he posted on Twitter Friday.The president may try to hide the truth but his own scientists and experts have made it as stark and clear as possible.	Former Vice President Al Gore accused the Trump administration of trying to bury a damning government report that linked global warming to the worsening of natural disasters by quietly releasing the study on the Friday after Thanksgiving.	True
While the price of carbon is central to prompt mitigation pathways compatible with 1.5 degree Celsius consistent pathways a complementary mix of stringent policies is required reads the IPCCs report.	The report calls for societal changes that are unprecedented in terms of scale in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius the stretch goal of the Paris accord.	The IPCCs report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December.	However the costs of meeting that goal are high based on the IPCCs own figures.	But that point only serves to undermine Curbelos bill which would put a moratorium on some environmental regulations and possibly eliminate some if emissions goals are reached.	True
Former Secretary of State John Kerry and Rep. Thomas Massie R Ky. had a heated exchange Tuesday over Kerry's education andclimate change.	The incredible exchange began when Massie read a quote Kerry said regarding President Trumps advisers.	Massie asked.	the former secretary of state asked.	the congressman asked.	True
These communities need justiceand I will stand with them she added	However Warrens role in crafting a petition to the Supreme Court on behalf of LTV Steel which helped the companys fight against a congressional requirement that it pay millions of dollars into a fund for its retired coal miners health care calls her promise into question.	As Ive traveled this country Ive heard the human stories from frontline communities.	Ruined land and poisoned water Warren tweeted.	Ive fought for years to protect pensions and health benefits for retired coal workers and Ill continue fighting to maintain the solvency of multi employer pension plans she said.	True
Experts say that climate change in the region is exacerbating and sometimes causing a miasma of other problems including crop failures and povertyThe Guardian reported in October.	Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on climate change and the migrant caravan claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence climate change is also playing a part based on an interview with a farmer turned migrant whos crop failed.	Many experts who have seriously examined claims linking climate to violent conflict and mass migrations have found little evidence to support such claims but the media still applied the narrative by linking global warming to Central American migrations.	People from all over the world are being forced to migrate because the climate crisis is affecting their livelihood.	The migrant caravan from Central America is a recent startling example Gore tweeted Monday.	False
Caught on camera her stare sparked a thousand tweets and divided the public.	While Thunberg was giving a fiery speech at the UNGA Climate Action Summit Trump was speaking at an event about religious freedom.	People are suffering.	We are all Greta another resistance activist proclaimed sharing a photo of Thunberg scowling at Trump next to a photo of her meeting his predecessor Barack Obama.	Thunbergs fiery speech was likewise met with praise or disdain depending on where one stood in regard to the narrative of manmade climate change.	True
But the public relations war over how to address it is heating up as both sides navigate an issue expected to be a top issue in the 2020 election.	As we careen toward irreversible environmental tipping points we have no time to waste debating alternative facts only to invest years more reestablishing trust in the real ones Kerry wrote.	This unaccountable working group appears set to deliberately cherry pick data and science with the sole purpose of pushing back against the widely accepted science around climate change he said at a hearing Tuesday thatfeatured government scientists testifying on the crisis.	Lets have conservatives have a discussion instead of being in denial that this is a problem former Ohio GOP Gov.	John Kasich who ran against Trump in 2016 is expected to say at a speech Tuesday at the University of British Columbia.	True
For Pruitt getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma.	The war on coal is over EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt declared in the coal mining state of Kentucky.	The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obamas legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants.	Appearing at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Pruitt said The EPA and no federal agency should ever use its authority to say to you we are going to declare war on any sector of our economy.	Closely tied to the oil and gas industry in his home state Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man man emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change.	True
Three weeks ago over coffee and cookies at a Manhattan steakhousethe governor made a deal to disband the Independent Democratic Conference known as the IDC.	And on Monday 19 buses carrying more than 1500 activists from across the state converged on the state capital to protest Cuomos failure to do more about climate change in his eight years in office and make demands that looked identical to Nixons platform.It was the largest environmental protest against Cuomo since anti fracking activists staged demonstrations in 2014.	On Friday almost simultaneous to the release of Nixons climate platform Cuomo denied a water quality permit to a new natural gas pipeline environmentalists have protested for months and announced a new energy efficiency initiative that would account for one third of the emissions cuts required to meet his 2030 target.	There needs to be some adjustments made in the perception of how important this bill is to bring it into the executive chamber ready for the governors signatureEnglebright said Friday.	As Nixon gains in the polls and lands magazine covers Cuomo is scrambling to act on long neglected progressive demands.	True
Communities that could once comfortably live off the land are forced out of the fields and forests and into urban areas where tensions run high and food supplies low.	As a just published report from the intelligence community details climate change is a major military issue acting as a threat multiplier which creates the conditions and food scarcity for example breed instability and conflict.	Extreme weather events made worse by climate change disrupt local communities and weaken the civic institutions that act as a bulwark against terrorists and extremism.	But with a problem as big as climate change and as multifaceted as national security every step is worthwhile.	So while some may say that Obamas environmental rules constituted a War on Coal in reality it was the cheap and plentiful supply of natural gas that put coal out of business.	True
We are left with no other alternatives.	Rural landowners complained about the government regulating how much pollution from chemical fertilizers and pesticides could seep into water on their property.	This is why Alexandria Ocasio Cortez occupied ocasio cortez sunrise activists nancy pelosi Nancy Pelosis office to force support for a Green New Deal.	The protection of our water they figure shouldnt interfere with business.	As climate change accelerates and the planet hurdles ever closer to an existential crisis Trump went to a United Nations conference to tout the benefits katowice climate talks cop24.html of fossil fuels.	False
Be the solution not the problem.	Problem solved.	But most readers were stumped or derisive.	But I thought you believed so strongly in the environment.	All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer.	True
Youth Climate Strike and 18 year old activist Jamie Margolin.	But the starkest contrast on the issue is between the two progressive contenders and their moderate rivals former Vice President Joe Biden and Buttigieg.	There is no dealing with climate change unless we deal with corruption Gunn Wright said in a video set to be released Thursday afternoon.	2 concern after health care for Iowa caucusgoers in a Monmouth University survey from April.	Climate was the No.	False
There is no other option than victory because without victory there is not survival Inslee said at a press conference Monday.	Washington Democratic Gov.	Now Inslees back with an even more urgent message Adopt policies to tackle global warming or there is not survival.	Washingtonians are ready to see their elected leaders step up to prevent further harm to our forests our air and our communities.	However Inslees critics point out that state green policies have raised energy prices including in Seattle where electricity prices have doubled since 2013.	True
President Obama made commitments in this deal based off a costly power plan that we knew at the time was on shaky legal ground.	The decision by the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change is a major disappointment for global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote global security.	Following Mr. Trump's announcement reaction from both supporters applauding Mr. Trump's move as well as those who disagree with the pull out was swift across the political spectrum.	Mayors and cities around the world to uphold the tenets of the Paris climate agreement and protect Boston against the very real impacts of climate change.	By walking away from this pact President Trump is abandoning America's leadership position in the fight against the climate crisis and is sending a strong message to the rest of the world to create design and manufacture clean energy solutions and create jobs elsewhere.	True
Plans to dump coal ash in Southern states have been particularly contentious.	It also caused the community to become infested with flies the complaint states.	In Parrish townspeople are considering rescheduling childrens softball games or playing at fields in other communities to escape the stink.	In South Carolina a plan to store radioactive nuclear waste in a rural area prompted complaints that the state was being turned into a nuclear dump.	Brookes Black Warrior Riverkeeper group last year opposed continued permits for the Big Sky landfill.	True
Spokesman Saviano Abreu added that the situation in the northern towns of Macomia and Quissanga was critical while there were also worries for the cut off island of Ibo.	It's raining again and the second flight couldn't go.	As a result flights have been grounded hindering the aid effort.	Thousands of people had already fled their homes to seek shelter from violence in camps for displaced people.	But attempts to reach those areas had not been entirely successful.	True
Some environmental groups did not accept that explanation on Tuesday.	Ted Halstead the chief executive of the Climate Leadership Council said the group did not accept corporate contributions.	Michael B. Gerrard the director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia Law School and an expert on climate litigation said there had been four suits brought against energy companies over climate change including one brought by the eroding Arctic coastal town of Kivalina Alaska.	For this to pass it will have to pass on a bipartisan basis Mr. Halstead said.	But Mr. Halstead said the council had moved a little more to the center adding new leaders like Lawrence H. Summers a secretary of the Treasury under President Bill Clinton and Laurene Powell Jobs a philanthropist and the widow of the Apple founder Steve Jobs.	True
On windmills.	Im an environmentalist.	During the climate meeting leaders approved a 20 million aid package to help Brazil and other South American countries address fires engulfing the Amazon rainforest French President Emmanuel Macron Emmanuel Jean Michel MacronTrump says he's 'an environmentalist' after skipping G 7 climate meeting Trump says he'd meet with Iranians under 'right' circumstances Macron US France reached 'very good agreement' on digital tax MORE said.	At a closing press conference before departing the summit Trump was asked whether he still harbors skepticism about climate change.	And thats what were getting.	True
They submitted their concerns to theU.S.	However not every ecologically minded group is on board with Icebreaker the name of the project.	Conservation groups are protesting efforts to build a small offshore wind farm off the coast of Lake Erie arguing that the project poses a grave risk to the local bird population.	This is far from the first time bird advocates have lamented over wind turbines.	The Black Swamp Bird Observatory and the American Bird Conservancy two different bird conservation groups are opposed to the proposal claiming the turbines would harm the local bird population and that major errors were made during an environmental assessment.	True
Philip Gregory one of the lead attorneys representing the children filing suit explained that the injunction request is meant to address the urgency of limiting climate change by reducing emissions from fossil fuels immediately.	In so doing the government has deprived the plaintiffs the youngest is 11 years old the right to a safe and stable climate system.	As Gregory and the other attorneys for the children wrote in their injunction request This injunction is urgently needed because despite long standing knowledge of the resulting destruction to our Nation and the profound harm to these young Plaintiffs Defendants ongoing development of the fossil fuel based energy system is actively harming Plaintiffs and jeopardizing Plaintiffs ability to obtain the full remedy in their case.	In response the federal government argued this week that the injunction maneuver is a ploy to bypass proper legal proceedings.	Indeed Plaintiffs by their present motion are essentially making a bid in this Court for a substitute mini trial or trial lite which is premature until the pure issues of law now being briefed in this interlocutory appeal are appropriately resolved as a threshold matter wrote attorneys for the US Department of Justice.	True
Such research requires a faithful reproduction of events and predictions of the future constrained by subjective choices within computer models.	How to put these two hurricanes into proper context?	By focusing on whether climate change caused a hurricane journalists fail to appreciate the complexity of extreme weather events.	Even as we worked to divine exactly where the hurricanes would land a media narrative began to form linking the devastating storms to climate change.	As soon as Hurricanes Harvey and Irma made landfall in the U.S. scientists politicians and journalists began to discuss the role of climate change in natural disasters.	True
Republicans and farmers have complained about management of the smelt population for years because precious water was being pumped out to sea instead of going towards other uses including agriculture.	California Gov.	Hes likely referring to the diverting of water from the Sacramento San Joaquin River Delta into the ocean to protect the delta smelt an endangered fish.	Trump also lambasted policies forcing river water to be diverted during the 2016 campaign.	RELATED NYT Claims Global Greening From CO2 Is Terrible Gets Owned State officials said the Carr Fire was sparked in late July by a flat tire on a trailer scraping against the asphalt on a road near Redding California.	False
That has all kind of consequences both locally for this region for the animals and the people who live here as well as globally Max Holmes a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska told the New York Times.	Holmes led a team of scientists in July to take permafrost cores sediment and water samples from the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge to better understand how thawing permafrost affects the landscape and how much and what mix of greenhouse gases are released.	As global temperatures rise scientists are trying to determine the likely speed and scale of the melting of Alaskas permafrost.	When permafrost melts microbes convert carbon to carbon dioxide causing even more warming.	He estimates that if emissions and warming continue at the same rate near surface temperatures will rise above freezing around the middle of the century.	False
Theyve said the same thing before Sen. Marco Rubio R Fla. said adding that his responsibility was to balance those interests raised in that report with his states broader economic and security interests.	Theres not enough money in the world to pay for that Kennedy said.	Thats the main thing about getting to the emmissions goal is just how aggressively we have to act in every different sector of our society.	Thats the problem with the U.N. that they come up with these policy ideas that are just La La Land.	How is that new?	True
And the activity of this range could have worrying consequences they have warned.	It is something we will have to watch closely Bingham said.	However he pointed to one alarming trend The most volcanism that is going in the world at present is in regions that have only recently lost their glacier covering after the end of the last ice age.	Essentially we were looking for evidence of volcanic cones sticking up into the ice Bingham said.	But how many lie below the ice?	True
We'll pass a win the solutions we need.	California is burning.	They asked me to join them and I did Ocasio Cortez tweeted of her involvement with members of the Sunrise Movement and Justice Democrats who visited several elected officials offices in the building.	The group urged her to step aside if she is unable to mandate such a plan.	pic.twitter.commw6dKSxPVj 350 dot org November 13 2018 Members of the Sunrise Movement responding to Pelosis support in their ownstatement on Twitter said they welcomed her endorsement but added that words arent enough.	True
This summer in the midst of unprecedented chaos and dysfunction in Washington California lawmakers stepped up with a bipartisan solution to one of the most pressing challenges facing our state this nation and the world.	In fact the challenge before us is a case study in market failures to suggest that market based policies on their own will solve this existential challenge is nave at best.	Cap and trade is an important tool in Californias climate policy portfolio.	It sends a price signal to industries to reduce their carbon pollution while generating billions of dollars in revenue for investments in clean transportation and direct pollution reduction.	However its hardly the only weapon in our climate arsenal and California simply cannot meet our world leading greenhouse gas reduction goals with cap and trade alone.	True
Bill Nye took on Republican Rep. Thomas Massey who claims to be an electrical engineer but he doesnt understand climate change.	For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	This would be dT dt where capital T is temperature and and the lower case is time or congressmans staff if out there thats the problem.	The temperature is rising quickly.	I presume you dont watch MSNBCA member of his staff might.	False
I want to go beyond those issues said Del.	Now the monopolies critics fear that the companies which extract fossil fuels and generate energy in addition to transmitting it will seek to water down any efforts to combat climate change.	Virginia Del.	I feel like I have one foot in the old world and one foot in the new world to lead some of the new folks that came in in 2017 and will be coming in this year she said.	Having gender equality public safety LGBTQ equality gun safety those are the things we should be able to accomplish regardless of whos in charge Only taking care of those things is such a cheap cop out for what a party should stand for.	True
Why the push abroad?	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	It provides Chinese firms and investors with opportunities to make money off coal projects at a time when thats less politically popular in China.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	The country reaffirmed its commitment to its Paris commitments after U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order rolling back global warming regulations in late March.	False
In his Spanish language address to the U.N. agency Francis denounced negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet and the greed for profit.	Ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the prerequisites for dealing with world food security Francis also said.	At the time a Vatican official said the move was a slap in the face for the pope and the Vatican.	Thanks to scientific knowledge we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods such as the Paris Accord which sadly some have abandoned he said.	Many world leaders have criticized Trump for deciding to pull out.	True
But for now more immediate consequences of the raging flames were becoming clear.	Grace Quale a hospital laboratory technician who attended a service at an evangelical church on Sunday said that critics want to overthrow our president and that she didnt see a link between Bolsonaros environmental policies and the number of people getting treatment for respiratory problems.	But as breathing related ailments appear to be on the rise attention to the issue has largely been overshadowed by growingacrimony between Brazil and European countries seeking to help fight Amazon fires and protect a region seen as vital to the health of the planet.	The kids are affected the most.	Schneider an associate professor in the geography department said fire is commonly used by people to clear land for cultivation and the actual area burned this year must be measured for an accurate comparison with damage in past years.	True
The decision prompted sharp criticism from former EPA administrators.	Undoing the rule threatens to upend that uniformity.	Carol Browner who served as the agencys chief from 1993 to 2001 said Pruitt was wrong to cast California as wielding outsize influence over the regulations.	Cooperative federalism doesnt mean that one state can dictate standards for the rest of the country Pruitt said.	The decision to rewrite the rule puts the EPA at loggerheads with California regulators who agreed in 2011 as part of the rule to align their tailpipe emissions standards with the national levels.	True
The intrigue comes amid growing bad blood between the two sides.	A dispute arose between Pawa and Sher in 2012 relating to the division of attorneys fees between them under a contract with New Hampshire which retained both to represent the state in the Exxon contamination case.	Two of the attorneys representing various cities in climate litigation against oil companies have a history of suing and counter suing each other over personal squabbles according to documents obtained by The Daily Caller News Foundation.	The rivalry between the two attorneys heated up Nov. 26 after San Francisco and Oaklandfired Hagens Bermanand hired Sher Edling to represent the cities as they appeal a courts decision to dismiss their lawsuits against Exxon.	Environmental attorneys Vic Sher and Matt Pawa got intoa multi million dollar legal dispute in 2014 stemming from a lawsuit they both worked on against ExxonMobil.	True
For us this is destruction.	What is being done here is an atrocity against us.	Camila Veiga of the Brazilian Association of NGOs said The fires are the consequence of a policy of environmental devastation of support for agribusiness of increasing pastures.	French President Emmanuel Macron had called the wildfires an international crisis and said the leaders of the G7 group of nations should hold urgent discussions about them during their summit in France this weekend.	Handech Wakana Mura another local leader within the forest said With each passing day we see the destruction advance deforestation invasion and logging.	True
However there are still many obstacles facing the team.	Children are powerful drivers of change because they go home and talk to their parents about it says Zana Kontamanoli.	Another sticking point has been convincing bakeries and pharmacies to stop using plastic bags.	Paros was chosen because its changes in population give it complexity and because she found out when she visited the island that people were already working on the issue.	And while many residents are enthusiastic about the project there are still some that need convincing.	True
The leading candidates are rising atmospheric CO2 levels a result of emissions from human activities longer growing seasons a result of climate change caused by CO2 emissions and nitrogen pollution another result of fossil fuel combustion and agriculture the article also claims.	He says despite the researchers findings which clearly show global warming helps plantsand thus also helping humans and animalsglobal warming has many negative effects too such as causing climate change which will increase flooding of coastal cities extreme weather and ocean acidification.	Campbell said the evidence shows a fundamental shift in the Earths plants and that global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race.	However dont too excited Campbell warns.	Photosynthesis is the process of converting carbon dioxide into carbohydrates which power plants using sunlight.	True
Calls for the red team blue team exercise began in April one month before the date marked on the top of the documents.On April 20 the day before the March for Science protest in Washington D.C. New York University physicist Steve Koonin published an op ed in The Wall Street Journal calling for a red team blue team exercise to put the consensus to the test and improve public understanding through an open adversarial process.	The meeting included about 40 climate scientists economists lawyers and other experts to discuss the possible creation by the Trump administration of a Red Team Blue Team exercise on climate change he wrote.	The names included on the list suggest that the Heartland Institute wants the debate to go directly after the scientific and legal underpinnings of the EPAs regulations on climate change.	In my opinion the red team would win that debate on the carbon dioxide.	The next day Judith Curry a retired climatologist known for mocking other scientists as alarmists and Anthony Watts who runs a popular climate change denial blog endorsed the idea.The next week Pruitt met with Koonin for an hour according to schedules published by The Washington Post.	True
Well this is the end result of that decision.	They were afraid that it would end up hurting whichever candidate goes into the general election next year.	We told you last week that the DNC refused to allow their 2020 Democratic candidates to debate the issue of Climate Change.	CNN has announced one massive town hall on Climate Change not massive in crowd size but massive in the amount of time it will take CNN on Tuesday announced the candidate lineup for its unprecedented prime time event focused on the climate crisis.	Here are the details of this marathon non debate town hall Id rather fall into a 40000 foot deep man made hole in Russia than watch Democrats tell us how were all going to die in 12 years if we dont get rid of fossil fuels.	True
His decision follows a ruling the judge made in June dismissing both cases on the grounds that Congress not the court system is responsible for addressing the emission of greenhouse gasses.	Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants alleged California activities to plaintiffs harm.	They argue that Exxon and others should pony up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change.	From all that appears in the amended complaints howeverthis worldwide chain of events Exxons oil production does not depend on a particular defendants contacts with California he said.	Whatever sales or events occurred in California werecausally insignificantin the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming.	True
In a Gallup poll last month just 1 percent of Americans including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats chose environmentpollution as the countrys most important problem from a list of dozens of issues.	The last time we had a really major existential threat to this country was around World War II Ocasio Cortez said at a campaign event.	3.	Ocasio Cortez the democratic socialist expected to become the next U.S. representative for New Yorks 14th Congressional District likened climate change to the existential threat posed by Nazi Germany and the Axis.	Last year Trump announced the U.S. would withdraw from the Paris climate agreement which every recognized country on Earth has signed.	True
The 2015 order led environmentalists to complain that the state which leads the nation in production of fruits and vegetables did too little to force farmers to conserve water.	Conservation must remain a way of life.	Brown also said the need for conservation continued.	For their part farmers said they received far less water than promised by state and federal authorities.	The drought cost the agricultural economy billions killed an estimated 100 million trees led a half million acres of farmland to be fallowed and deprived some communities of reliable sources of drinking water.	True
The report is not without its controversies.	We think that this is the most extreme version and its not based on facts she said.	University of Colorado Prof. Roger Pielke Jr. for instance criticized the researchers in a series of tweets Saturday for basing their modeling on a data that are likely to change dramatically over the course of the next 80 years.	He has criticized the medias handling of similar reports.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	True
Theres simply not enough money to know what to prioritize.	Slashing a program known for the collaboration between regulators and businesses and the effectiveness its achieved in reducing the backlog of leaking tanks would be crippling he said.	In a letter earlier this year to congressional leaders the head of the trade organization representing state solid waste agencies said the cut would impedethe long term progress states have made on inspection and cleanup.	At some point such a deep cut makes any agency effectively non responsive Thomas said.	But state officials environmental activists and public health advocates warn that the size of the cut carries great risk considering groundwater is the source of drinking water for nearly half of all Americans.	True
And now of course it's coal's inability to compete with natural gas on price for power generation.	The meeting was postponed indefinitely and with key Trump advisers divided over the issue it is still uncertain what Trump will finally do about the accord.	This week President Donald Trump was to meet with senior administration officials to discuss the deal and whether the United States should withdraw from it.	But advocates of greater federal regulations to address climate change are already expressing dismay about the administration's stance.	Adam Koniuszewski project leader of the Gorbachev Climate Change Task Force a think tank that focuses on global challenges posed by climate change agreed with Whitman.	True
He has been outspoken in favor of gun control and after the shooting in Parkland Fla. last year he confronted President Trump on live television denouncing Mr. Trumps suggestion to arm schoolteachers.	His advocacy on the issue goes back many years he lost his seat in Congress after voting for the 1994 assault weapons ban.	Mr. Inslee also tried unsuccessfully last year to get the Washington Legislature to vote on a carbon tax which would have been the first in the nation voters rejected the proposal in November.	While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels Washington had the highest G.D.P.	growth in the nation in 2018 according to the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis.	True
Asrecently as last year anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu pop.	In December 2009 the islands stalled talks atUnited Nations Climate Change ConferenceinCopenhagen fearing some other developing countries were not committing fully to binding deals on a reduction in carbon emission their chief negotiator stated Tuvalu is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to climate change and our future rests on the outcome of this meeting.57When the conference failed to reach a binding meaningful agreement Tuvalus representative Ian Fry said It looks like we are being offered30 pieces of silverto betray our people and our future Our future is not for sale.	I regret to inform you that Tuvalu cannot accept this document.58 Frys speech to the conference was a highly impassioned plea for countries around the world to address the issues of man made global warming resulting in climate change.	It records possibly Tuvalus greatest moment of glory on the international stage when it seized the opportunity at the 2009 Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen to grandstand about its terrible plight.	In his speech Fry claimed man made global warming to be currently the greatest threat to humanity and ended with an emotional the fate of my country rests in your hands.59 Tuvalus plightalso formed part of the basis for arguably the most hysterical fake news claim in the history of climate alarmism the UNs prediction that by the end of 2010 climate change would have created 50 million environmental refugees.	True
When pie in the sky thinking meets end of times conspiracy theories we get something like this.	A scenario where were all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed.	Still Ocasio Cortez believes that if this plan gets put into action itll solve every problem under the sun including racism and bigotry.	The cost of this ten year plan?7 trillion.	All we have to do is give up our common sense.	True
Kalmus who has written a book on his experiences said meeting critical goals to avert disaster will require a rapid cultural transformation and acts of individual defiance help achieve that.	Eventually it dawned on me that I should maybe bring my actions into alignment with my beliefs.	Some people like Tarek Maassarani take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes.	I was shaking people by the lapels posting screeds on Facebook not really getting anywhere he told AFP in an interview from his home in a Los Angeles suburb.	But how impactful can individual action be in the absence of systemic changes from the top?	False
OCASIO CORTEZ CONTRADICTS HERSELF ON ROLE OF GOVERNMENT IN MASSIVE AND UNPRECEDENTED 'GREEN NEW DEAL' But the sweeping proposal was hit with mockery once the details were unveiled on Thursday with many pointing out how unrealistic the suggestions are.	I would love to understand this logic.	Because you know like money is just paper and how hard can it be to make some more of the stuff right?	Somehow government run healthcare family sustainable wages paid leave and affordable housing are also required for a clean economy the writer wrote.	Right?	True
We have been held hostage by these environmental terrorist groups that have not allowed public access that have refused to allow the harvest of timber Zinke told Breitbart Monday.	I've heard the climate change argument back and forth.	However Zinke also reiterated an argument that he made earlier this week blaming environmental groups for preventing dead trees from being cleared due to their opposition to the logging industry.	Earlier this week Zinke blamed environmental terrorist groups for California's destructive wildfires in an interview with Breitbart Radio.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	False
At this time while we do not believe there is any imminent danger the potential for a chemical reaction leading to a fire andor explosion within the site confines is real Arkema said in a statement.	The unit was stabilized.	Excess emissions occurred during an upset on the Sulfur Plant Thermal Oxidizer Exxon said in the report.	In this case it caused product to spill to the ground.	It added it was taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment.	True
But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Like this story?	Viewers called him out for rambling incoherent answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry.	But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding commented another.	True
Lets be clear about what is at issue here.	History provides precedents of how the boundless zealotry of new wrecking crews ultimately leads to self inflicted wounds and scandals.	He is also hostile to the precautionary principle which shifts the burden of proof to the progenitors of new chemical or particulate or gas into the environment.	This fulminating vendetta widely reported has led to millions of taxpayers waiting on the phone with the IRS to get served or not be served at all.	Mr. Pruitt makes himself vulnerable with all the ex parte contacts and corporate advisors to many serious offenses including a violation of the procedures of the Federal Advisory Committee Act b conflict of interest rules c violation of both criminal and civil laws by the overreaching industry lobbyists who constitute Pruitts tight cadre of clenched jawed political appointees.	True
So whats the problem?	The comparison reveals two fundamental issues with the suits.	Presumably this will soon be a cause clbre.	Second a key allegation against cigarette companies was that they hid and denied the harms of smoking but the parallel allegations against the energy companies are contradictory.	Local lawsuits also struggle to address the global scope of the climate change problem.	True
We will no longer accept this injustice.	RELATEDThousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests We have the right to live our dreams and hopes the letter continues.	Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world.	Activists are hoping to closely mirror the youth led March For Our Lives protests in Washington D.C. which took place nearly a year ago following the fatal Parkland Florida school shooting and spark more debate among lawmakers about the dangers of climate change.	We demand justice for all past current and future victims of the climate crisis and so we are rising up read an open letter that the activists published on the Guardian claiming they would be protesting on every continent on Friday.	False
However Morris argued that the department had not given areasoned explanation for how it came to this conclusion.	In a 54 page decision Judge Brian Morris of the U.S. District Court in Montana granted an injunction to the Indigenous Environmental Network and Northern Plains Resource Council against the U.S. State Department the TransCanada Keystone Pipeline and the TransCanada Corporation.	Morris had ruled in August that the State Department had to reach a conclusion on the environmental impacts of the pipeline but determined Thursday that the departments analysis had left out information he considered to be crucial.He also accused the State Department of usingoutdated information about potential environmental impacts instead ofthe best scientific and commercial data available.	In November 2015 former President Barack Obamas administration blocked the pipelines construction citing potential environmental impact.	TransCanada is blocked from engaging in any activity in furtherance of the construction or operation of Keystone and associated facilities until the State Department can confirm that doing so would not violate the Administrative Procedure Act or the National Environmental Policy Act.	True
Climate Change.'	It also claims it has soured the atmosphere and damaged goodwill in the international arena.	'Our greatest threat in thousands of years.	A statement from the former chiefs came a day before the summit was scheduled to begin and is a highly unusual move.	Antonio Guterres UN Secretary General said this period of time is'a matter of life and death' for countries around the world.	True
In truth this presents a problem for Trump.	Talk about all pain and no gain!	Twenty seven states led by West Virginia and several industry groups and trade associations challenged CPPs legality in federal court.	By rescinding it Trump is doing what he promised to do and what any president should do putting America first.	During the 2016 presidential campaign Trump said the United States faces numerous problems more important than climate change and he pledged to eliminate environmental policies hampering economic growth and domestic energy development targeting the CPP by name.	True
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	SteveGorehamis a speaker on the environment business and public policy and author of thebookOutside the Green Box Rethinking Sustainable Development.	In January he blocked Trump Administration efforts to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals DACA program.	But John F. Keenan District Court judge for the Southern District of New York disagreed and dismissed the complaint.	Judge Keenanruledthat it would thus be illogical to allow the City to bring state law claims when courts have found that these matters are areas of federal concern that have been delegated to the Executive Branch as they require a uniform national solutionGlobal warming and solutions thereto must be addressed by the other two branches of government.	True
The US and the three other nations sided against welcoming the measure.	Zinke's position involves the dual and sometimes competing roles of overseeing leases to develop resources such as oil natural gas and minerals and preserving federal lands for wildlife and human recreational uses.	Sides with Russia Saudi Arabia and Kuwait at climate conference Considering Trump announced the US would walk away from the Paris climate agreement which brought together the rest of the world it's no surprise the US continues to be an outlier on the international stage.	Washington CNN Since the Trump administration released its blockbuster report on the day after Thanksgiving outlining the dire environmental and economic impacts of climate change it has made a series of policy and diplomatic decisions or statements that appear to run counter to all of the warnings in the report.	A clause in a communique signed by the member nations says the US reiterates its decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and affirms its strong commitment to economic growth and energy access and security utilizing all energy sources and technologies while protecting the environment.	True
Wheres the presidents outrage about that?	Kate Poole the senior director of the Natural Resources Defense Councils NRDC water division said its hard to know where to begin in responding to Trumps tweets because theyre fundamentally wrong on many levels.	Jerry Brown in a series of tweets.	We asked why Trump was saying that the states water is being redirecting into the ocean and where that idea originated.	I dont know what hes getting at.	True
Another wrote 'Interesting how a leader that acts like a child is yelling at a child who acts like a leader'.	during the UN General Assembly this year.	Her angry accusations that world leaders are failing the younger generation have made headlines including her shouts of 'How dare you?'	'Greta must work on her Anger Management problem then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend!	The 16 year old who was named Time magazine's 'Person of The Year' updated her Twitter bio on Thursday to read 'A teenager working on her anger management problem.	False
The Trump administration has been picking fights with California over environmental regulations recently.	The Trump administration has escalated its fight with California over environmental regulations.	Gavin Newsom has been critical of President Trump's environmental record and challenged the administration in court.	Gov.	This letter is a threat of pure retaliation Newsom says.	True
We want to eliminate confusion Freire said by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how were protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law.	Honored to join Indigenous leaders and native peoples as they fight for climate justice DiCaprio tweeted.	At the marquee climate protest the Peoples Climate March in Washington tens of thousands made their way down Pennsylvania Avenue in sweltering heat on their way to encircle the White House.	In an op ed piece for the Guardian published on Saturday Sanders made an economic case for a focus on industries meant to ameliorate the effects of climate change rather than those which contribute to it.	Any marchers who used their phones to look at the EPA climate change website would have been greeted with a message from the new administration This page is being updated.	False
It will without doubt have come to your Lordships knowledge that a considerable change of climate inexplicable at present to us must have taken place in the Circumpolar Regions by which the severity of the cold that has for centuries past enclosed the seas in the high northern latitudes in an impenetrable barrier of ice has been during the last two years greatly abated.	Proponents of the theory humans are primarily responsible for rising global temperatures long claimed wildlife are harmed significantly by global warming and that unless mankind stops producing significant amounts of carbon dioxide emissions the worlds animals will not be able to thrive.	USA Today recently declared the loss of sea ice terrifying but global warming skeptics have long suggested these claims are overblown when put into perspective.	Climate change is accompanies by more storms and more precipitation and we must expect that more nutrients will be released from the surroundings into the melt ponds said Professor Ronnie Glud of the Department of Biology at SDU.	This is the conclusion of researchers in the periodical Polar Biology the press release said.	True
It's an adventure.	The damage it's causing to monuments and the people is worrying she said wondering if climate change was to blame.	A massive infrastructure project called MOSE has been under way since 2003 to protect the city but it has been plagued by cost overruns corruption scandals and delays.	But for the people who live here it's a real problem Litschauer said cradling her white Chihuahua Pablo.	We need to be resilient and adapt.	True
Hes going to have to take a pretty strong stand.	Ill tell you what I havent seen anything better that addresses the singular crisis we face a crisis that could at its worst lead to extinction he said.	The Sludge an investigative website reported last December that ORourkes Senate campaign failed to comply with a pledge not to knowingly accept contributions of more than 200 from the oil and gas industry.	ORourkes campaign did not respond to questions about whether he plans to sign the pledge or how his qualified support for natural gas is compatible with the Green New Deal.	Environmental advocates and experts wait to see if as ORourke pivots from an election in a conservative led oil state to a national primary race heavily influenced by left leaning Democratic candidates he will have more latitude and desire to put progressive green policies at the heart of his strategy.	True
Climate change is our reality and youth activists like Greta are doing everything within their power to work against it and demand a change Gonzlez wrote.	Erosion of fertile topsoil deforestation of the rainforest toxic air pollution loss of insects and wildlife acidification of our oceans these are all disastrous trends said Thunberg barely able to keep her tears back.	Thousands of students in Europe and the U.S. ditched school to demand government action on climate change in February.	Thunberg who says she has Asperger syndrome gained prominence for ditching school every Friday to protest outside Swedish parliament.	American student activists led by the daughter of Democratic Minnesota Rep. Ilhan Omar demanded a Green New Deal the legislation sponsored by New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez.	True
It's a move that sounds like an attitude of deference and separation of power Buzbee said.	Writing for a divided panel he found that this good neighbor rule overstepped the EPA's authority.	The Supreme Court overruled Kavanaugh.	The Cuyahoga River Love Canal when there was no environmental protection.	Environmental groups were not going to be happy with anyone President Donald Trump picked for the Supreme Court.	False
As part of the wide ranging conversation about climate change he explainedhow he squares hissupport for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities.	The candidate sat down with Climate Desk in Anacostia Washington D.C. for anexclusive interview a day before the climate strikes taking place around the world.	And while historically nuclear power companies have built their plantsand dumped the wastein poor communities of color Booker believes it doesnt have to be that way He points to agreements struck between local and national governments in Canada and Europe as a model for a community process to deal with the waste.	Bookers support for nuclear power and a carbon fee has tempered any praise from the Climate Justice Alliance a network that fears these policies would hurt more than help affected communities.	Even if it means that we have to phase off it in the future the real pressing challenge right now the threat to our health and our safety and our well being is climate change and that needs to be our driving focus.	True
Climate change population growth and growing demand for food energy and fresh water will incite violent conflict over diminishing resources by the year 2030 the document also forecasts with remarkable confidence.	Climate change has been linked to the Syrian War the rise of Boko Haram in Nigeria as well as the famines water shortages and resulting conflict in Yemen Somalia and South Sudan the document pronounces.	Not content with prescribing a drastic cutback in global emissions however the Council members forge onward to make a more insidious proposal population control.	Despite the Councils dire warnings however it turns out that scientists themselves are far less certain that Berkeleys elite council members.	The City of Berkeley calls on the United States of America to initiate a just national mobilization emergency effort to reverse global warming which ends national greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible and immediately initiates an effort to safely draw down carbon from the atmosphere the text boldly proposes.	True
Words do not suffice in a tragedy like this.	Instead the Republican strategy has consisted of aggressive denial of the facts coupled with staunch obstruction of any serious action to address the problem.	But they disregard some of its most important teachings when formulating policy.	This is a time for action action to care for our fellow citizens in the face of disaster and action to prevent a systemic worsening of the climate crisis by heeding the warning and doing what is right.	As I write Hurricane Irma a terrifying superstorm with the highest wind speeds ever recorded in the Atlantic is cutting a destructive path through the Caribbean.	True
We are here today because our climate is under threat Mr. Vella said.	The populist backlash a revulsion at top down governments laden with jet setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses has swept America with Trumps election Great Britain with Brexit much of Europe and Australia.	Solomon proposed that while feigning interest in global warming is politically expedient most people are unconvinced that it poses a real problemunlike the real pollution that is killing millions.	These problems are just as real in Europe as they are elsewhere around the globe he asserted.	The European Commissioner insisted that the key to addressing the problem of climate change and avoiding a point of no return is to be found in political will.	True
The church leaders slammed Daines for having the audacity to challenge the overwhelming scientific consensus that emissions from farms and burning fossil fuels are trapping heat in the atmosphere and causing the planet to warm.	inan op edpublished by the Missoulian Thursday for failing to understand climate changes role in a widespread fish kill in Yellowstone National Park last summer.	We cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment said the church leaders the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co Cathedral.	The one Catholic priest and three Protestant clergy criticized Sen. Steve Daines R Mont.	The simple moral truth is that United States is by far the worlds largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it they added.	False
I was fighting back against corporate greed and this constant disregard for public health.	That promise falls short of what Ocasio Cortez Tlaib and the Sunrise Movement protesters seeknamely the creation of a so called Green New Dealbut the attention has started a conversation between the new members and their partys longtime leader.	The night before Tlaib and Representative elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez N.Y.who made headlines today by joining the protesters at Pelosis officehad stopped by St. Stephens church to meet with the activists on the eve of the demonstration.	I wanted to come and help.	Climate change has been a key issue for both Tlaib and Ocasio Cortez.	True
Like this story?	In both cases the company resolved to hire new management and overhaul its safety procedures.	Its a pretty big concern if you have an unknown quantity of material containing uranium leaching into the groundwaterlocal anti nuclear activist Tom Clements told The State.	Last year a hose malfunction sprayed a worker with a toxic solution sending him fleeing to an emergency decontamination shower.	Despite boasting that no company is more focused on nuclear fuel reliability Westinghouses South Carolina factory has seen its share of safety foul ups in the past.	True
The Trump administration has yet to realize that the war on coal was never led by Washingtonand Washington cannot end it Bloomberg said in the press release.	Together we have worked with local grassroots activists and partners in the nations most vulnerable communities to secure the retirement of 259 dirty power plants and the promise of a brighter future putting at the center of our work a transition that leaves no one behind and that demands good paying family sustaining jobs for workers who depended on the fossil fuel economy Brune said.	All of this and were just getting started.	Our movement is growing and our momentum is unstoppable.	It was started and continues to be led by communities in both red and blue states who are tired of having their air and water poisoned when there are cleaner and cheaper alternatives available cities and states that are determined to clean their air and reduce their costs and businesses seeking to lower their energy bills while also doing their part for the climate.	True
Its not based on facts.	He moved to lay blame on forest management policies during the visit instead even suggesting that raking would help stop the scourge of wildfires claims he appeared to repeat in his interview with the Post on Tuesday.	The fire in California where I was if you looked at the floor the floor of the fire they have trees that were fallen they did no forest management no forest maintenance and you can light you can take a match like this and light a tree trunk when that thing is laying there for more than 14 or 15 months Trump said.	White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Tuesday that the recent National Climate Assessment was not based on facts.	The president has stayed firm on his anti climate rhetoric in recent days even after the devastating Camp fire in Northern California left at least 88 people dead.	False
Something must have changed in the debate that so many young people are speaking up and so many young people are being targeted Thunberg told Yahoo News in response to the mockery her movement has received from leaders like Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin.	None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president None What my journey into homelessness taught me	Now what does he want?	They obviously dont want that.	None Turkey's president Erdogan bluffed Trump out of Syria.	True
Claim 4 When I first met you you were running for president the Department of Energy was one of the federal agencies that you thought was maybe extraneous said Cannon.	Here are four checks on claims from the interview.	Energy Secretary Rick Perry attended a March 29 event about the state of U.S. energy where he discussed his thoughts on energy policy with Carl Cannon the Washington bureau chief of RealClearPolitics.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	During one presidential debate he said that he would abolish three federal agencies if elected naming the Commerce and Education Departments but infamously forgetting the third.	True
I think something's happening.	Something's changing and it'll change back again he said.	Speaking at a Red Cross center in Georgia where he was touring areas devastated by last weeks Hurricane Michael Trump said there is something there in response to a question on climate change from a reporter.	I think there's probably a difference.	I will say this I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars.	True
During the 2016 Democratic primary Sanders clashed with Clinton over climate change attacking her support for increased gas drilling in a heated debate.	Sanders has also drawn heat recently for his uncertain stance on reparations for the descendants of slaves and for quietly hiring a journalist who frequently attacked his 2020 opponents on Twitter as an adviser.	After Clinton clinched the nomination the issue disappeared without a single question asked during three debates between Clinton and her Republican opponent Donald Trump.	In February he attacked Trump for ignoring climate change in his State of the Union address.	Carbon emissions from campaign travel first became an issue during the 2004 election when the NRDC Action Fund an affiliate of the Natural Resources Defense Council began raising concerns about the huge amount of fuel candidates burned crisscrossing the country.	True
The conclusion?	And it found that these are only sustainable options if you use them very frequently.	Not necessarily.	Making a cotton shopping bag is hardly cost free.	And on that score paper bags fare worse.	True
The unusual arrangement has attracted attention in Washington where Pruitt has been under increasing scrutiny for this frequent taxpayer funded travel which has included first class airline tickets.	Ill only pay for nights I use it but need it held vacant all other nights wrote Shaub who has become a frequent critic of what he sees as ethical lapses in the Trump administration.	Also left unanswered was how Pruitt came to rent a property tied to a lobbyist with business interests involving his agency.	Walter Shaub who ran the U.S. Office of Government Ethics until last year rated EPAs legal justification of Pruitts living arrangements as Total Baloney.	Copies of Pruitts daily calendar obtained by the AP through a public records request show that Pruitt meet in his EPA office with two top OGE executives and a registered lobbyist from Harts firm in March 2017 when he was living at the condo.	True
What is doing this to us?	I think I know what the problem is he says.	What can we do?	No one has any answers.	Can you help us?	True
It is a violation of the stewardship mandate motivated only by politics.	This story was originally published bytheGuardian.	There was enormous political pressure to reopen the parks culminating in a Republican House joint hearing where I as the NPS director was grilled for five hours over the decision to close the parks during the shutdown.	While the majority of the public will be respectful there will always be a few who take advantage of the opportunity to do lasting damage.	This time surely to avoid the public outcry theTrump administration decided to keep the national parks open while still furloughing the majority of the NPS staff.	False
No bloom no harvest.	Both trends increase the chances that from time to time farmers will face catastrophic shortages of water.	5 Major Crops In The Crosshairs Of Climate Change Climate change is coming like a freight train or a rising tide.	If they don't experience enough chill during wintertime they get confused and don't bloom properly.	They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes most of them bad for growing corn.	True
That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels.	Tangier Island's steadfast rejection of climate change reflects the rigidity of American opinions about global warming often defined along political party lines.	Conservative climate activists like Rob Sisson of ConservAmerica and Mitch Hescox of the Evangelical Environmental Network said the rejection of climate change by Tangier residents is not surprising their groups often have trouble convincing fellow Republicans global warming is a real issue.	Journalists and politicians now view the island as a symbol of the climate crisis.	Often they say people object to the idea that humans could possibly change the climate even if they wanted to.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	Now those officials are preparing to discard sound scientific methods to pretend that their actions will be less deadly than they really are.	Trump wants to toss out the Obama era rules with ones that allow older coal plants to stay in business longer and continue risking lives by spewing particulates into the air.	Trump's ultimate goal is to roll back improvements President Obama made that limit the pollution coal plants produce.	Using an approach described by experts as not scientifically sound the Trump administration will soon change the way it evaluates the harm from coal plants spewing more pollution into the air according to a Monday New York Times report.	True
This was part ofa wider war on the Green Blob which has also involved withdrawing from the UNs Paris climate accord.	But some industry groups want a replacement to give utilities regulatory certainty and avoid possible lawsuits by environmental groups.	Even within his own cabinet there are numerous siren voices Javanka Secretary of State Tillerson Economics advisor Gary Cohn urging Trump to maintain his predecessors disastrous green policies.	Hence Trumps election trail promise and executive orderin March this yearrequesting EPA chief Scott Pruitt to rescind the CPP.	But it also lays the groundwork for new presumably weaker regulations by asking for the public and industry to offer ideas for a replacement.	False
University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. recentlypublished a paperon the problems with the UNs use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord.	Brown is right in one sense.	Yet BECCS plays a very real role in todays climate policy arena Pielke wrote by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and 90s.	California Democratic Gov.	What Brownorderedis not just reducing emissions but instead implied sucking more greenhouse gas out of the air than human activities in his state put up and not just for electricity.	True
Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward.	Tim Donnellyis a former California State Assemblyman and Author currently on a book tour for his new bookPatriot Not Politician Win or Go Homeless.	Brown one of the most outspoken elected official in the U.S. about the need for policies to combat climate change would be replicating similar moves by China France and the U.K. Ive gotten messages from the governor asking Why havent we done something already?	Governor Jerry Brown has expressed an interest in barring the sale of vehicles powered by internal combustion engines Mary Nichols chairman of theCalifornia Air Resources Board said in an interview Friday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.The earliest such a ban is at least a decade away she said.	The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California.	False
The youths held signs that read Greed Kills Help My Home is on Fire and 527 Years of Indigenous Resistance and chanted in between speeches phrases such as What do we want?	The publicist for the New York City protest refused to speak with Breitbart News when an inquiry was made about Thunbergs appearance and about Alexandria Villaseor a 14 year old who claims she has been protesting every Friday at the United Nations for 38 weeks.	Climate Justice.	A speaker said that the protest was not the goal of the movement by a catalyst for action including a planned global climate strike on September 20 just three days ahead of a U.N. climate summit that is expected to draw leaders from around the world and where Thunberg will be a special guest and speaker.	We cannot live in a world that is burning one young woman said that is melting.	True
The drama unfolded less than a day after the Feb. 7 rollout of the now beleaguered deal.	He often engages in legal battles against attorneys who sue energy companies over climate change.	Richardsons group is also on the front lines in battles against anti oil activists.	Ocasio Cortezs staff was forced to ding the document from the website and clarify the lawmakers position.	Christopher Horner a senior fellow at the Competitive Enterprise Institute told TheDCNF that Steyers reticence to leap into the fray is probably a smart tactic given the GDNs controversy.	True
The problem is the age old tragedy of the commons.	The shift in government policy likely will force Musk and his investors to revamp his sprawling business empire which relies on government subsidies and on preferencesfor solar energy over natural fuels.	This results in an error in market signals and far more CO2 is generated than should be.	However those financial gains for Musk depend on higher energy taxes for the nations established manufacturing sectors especially in Midweststates.Breitbart described the economic impact of the climate agreement Unsurprisingly Musk is a strong advocate for growing carbon taxes on natural fuels.	The common good being consumed is atmospheric and oceanic carbon capacity which currently has a price of zero.	True
The climate crisis is the existential crisis for our world she said.	It was a different story this time around.	The relatively brief segment devoted to climate change Tuesday is unlikely to satisfy environmental activists.	They have pressed for an official DNC climate change debate because they argue its needed to finally allot candidates the time to debate their plans in depthand to highlight the fact that President Donald Trump has no answers himself.	The Democratic candidates sounded the alarm on climate change in the first presidential debates but the discussion in June was so limited that they never really got into the details of how theyd solve the crisis.	False
Naomi Ages the climate director of Greenpeace USA was similarly perturbed.	Jake Schmidt the international program director at the Natural Resources Defense Council released the following statement Replacing the man from Big Oil with a first class climate denier simply goes from bad to worse.	That Trump would nominate a lifelong oilman to succeed John Kerry who led the U.S. through the Paris climate negotiations of late 2015 as the nations top diplomat resulted in predictable and fierce pushback.	Rep. Barbara Lee D Calif. also took issue with Pompeos past statements on climate change.	Climate change is one of the most critical threats facing our nation and world and the secretary of state has a huge responsibility to make sure it is addressed by the global community she said.	True
President Trump Donald John TrumpSunday shows preview Shutdown negotiations continue after White House immigration proposal Rove warns Senate GOP Don't put only focus on base Ann Coulter blasts Trump shutdown compromise We voted for Trump and got Jeb!	Trump dismissedthe report saying he did not believe its findings and disputing that climate change is man made.	The president who hasrepeatedly cast doubt on the existence and effects of climate change has regularly cited significant winter storms to mock the concept of global warming.	The current winter storm prompted the governor of Kansas to declare a state of emergency canceled thousands of flights and dumped more than a foot of snow across most of upstate New York.	Large parts of the Country are suffering from tremendous amounts of snow and near record setting cold.	True
But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	But that is where reality tempers the possibilities.	There are other challenges too.	In April 2017 Tamil Nadu farmers camped out in India's capital Delhi staging dramatic protests stuffing dead rats in their mouths stripping themselves naked in front of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home and drinking their own urine to underscore the intensity of the drought back home.	In June 2017 villagers in Tamil Nadu's parched Ramanathapuram district were protesting against a solar power plant they alleged that more than 200000 litres of scarce water was being extracted illegally from bore wells to clean the 250000 solar modules daily.	True
Trumphas alternately ignored or denied the climate crisis.	They called the Paris agreement a start not a finish line but the best ignition switch the world could agree on to spark international cooperation on this critical issue.	But organizers of local city and state efforts to curb the crisis across America say the US is still trying to play a role in fighting the climate crisis despite the actions of the federal government.	Jean Su energy director with the Center for Biological Diversitys Climate Law Institute said America is the number one historical contributor to the climate emergency wreaking havoc in burning California the flooded Southeast and the rest of the world.	Senator Tom Carper the top Democrat on the Senate environment panel said Once again President Trump is abandoning our global allies for the sake of misplaced political gain.	True
That fight is over 1500 acres of forest in Louisiana that the FWS designated as critical habitat for the survival of the species even though the frogs dont live on it.	Further down the road experts expect a fight over which of the nations waterways are actually protected under the Clean Water Act to return to the Supreme Court which sent lawsuits on this issue to district courts in January.	So there was no majority opinion.	One area legal experts are split on is whether the 2007 decision that greenhouse gases are pollutants will be reconsidered.	The owners of the forest are challenging the government agencys ability to declare property as critical habitat when a species doesnt live on it as well as the government not taking economic costs into account in making such designations.	True
Egoism and self interest have turned creation a place of encounter and sharing into an arena of competition and conflict he said.	Of six different options global warming and climate change performed the worst beaten handily by climate crisis environmental destruction weather destabilization and environmental collapse.	Recent studies have shown that the language of climate change and global warming do not stir up an emotional reaction in people and so climate alarmists have issued an appeal for the use of more powerful expressions to provoke people to action.	The expression climate crisis for instance got a 60 percent greater emotional response from listeners than climate change the study found.	Last April a team of advertising consultants from SPARK Neuro released the results of astudysuggesting that worn out expressions such as climate change do not frighten people enough whereas stronger vocabulary such as climate crisis and environmental collapse produced a significantly stronger emotional response.	True
Global Change Research Program.	But Ekwurzel cautions that we can't merely adapt our way out of this mess.	It is affecting all of us no matter where we live.	Here are some key points.	Extreme weather events could also cause price spikes and interrupt international trade.	True
Those who point to discrepancies in the global warming narrative have also noted that many of the solutions offered by climate change advocates do very little to actually stop carbon emissions and turn back the clock.	Daniel Rothman told the publication that we are approaching a threshold of catastrophe in the carbon cycle similar to that of the five previous periods of mass extinction over the last 540 million years.	Rothman goes on to explain that the tipping point of unknown territory wont take that long he predicts it will come as soon as 2100 or sooner.	According to Digital Trends a mass extinction eventis an event in which a large number of species become extinct at once as was the case with the death of thedinosaurs65 million years ago.	One is a critical rate of change corresponding to the rate at which CO2 is added to the oceanatmosphere system.	True
In 2015 Greenpeace activists duped Happer into agreeing to write a report on the benefits of carbon dioxide for a fictional oil company.	To avert climate chaos we need to challenge the free market fundamentalism that has conquered the world since the 1980s.	The answer doesnt really matter.	As Naomi Klein argues even the rights fervent conspiracy theorists tend to understand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are for business as usual which has distributed its profits among elites of both parties.	Members of Trumps cabinet Klein has written donald trump tax cuts climate change republican ideology capitalism with their desperate need to deny the reality of global warming or belittle its implications nonetheless understand something that is fundamentally true.	False
The U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC met last week in Incheon South Korea to finalize the report prepared at the request of governments in 2015 when a global pact to tackle climate change was agreed.	The report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it said Amjad Abdulla the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	There was no mention of oil in this context in the summary.	Meeting the 1.5C limit required rapid far reaching and unprecedented change in land and energy use industry buildings transport and cities it said adding temperatures would be 1.5C higher between 2030 and 2052 at the current pace.	It said keeping the rise in temperature to 1.5C would mean sea levels by 2100 would be 10 cm lower than if the warming was 2C the likelihood of an Arctic Ocean free of sea ice in summer would be once per century not at least once a decade and coral reefs would decline by 70 90 percent instead of being virtually wiped out.	True
Thosematters need to be resolved before the Legislative session ends at the end of the week.	Critics say it would hurt the business community and exacerbate a divide between liberalurban areas and conservative rural parts of the state.	The cap and trade program intended to rein in industrial carbon emissions lost traction even with the state's Democratic senators according to Courtney sparking protesters who were initially demanding that Republicans return to the floor for a vote to begin chantingPeter Courtney's got to go.	Kate Brown also a Democratauthorized the state police to round up the 12 Republicans who walked out of the Statehousein protest of the bill Thursday and bring them back to the Senate floor for a vote but to no avail.	And the only way we could do that and stop this vote is by not providing a quorum for Democrats to roll over us.. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Protesters in support of the climate bill were disappointed Tuesday after Courtney's announcement despite assurances by Democratic lawmakers who insisted they would find a path forward for the bill.	True
The White House official said Trump resented the corporate critics who ride in fossil fuel guzzling planes and SUVs then act holier than thou according to Axios.	Trump said the deal transferred wealth from the U.S. to economic rivals like China and India.	This is religion for the political left and our supporters are constantly being asked to change their behavior a top White House official told Axios who added that snarky comments from European leaders also encouraged Trump to withdraw.	Now a new report sheds some more light into why President Trump rejected the globalist scam and its incrediblespecifically he wanted to stick it to holier than thou elites in America specifically leftists who flyaround in private jets drive SUVs and live in massive mansions yet lecture Americans about their environmental impact.	President Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal is a giant middle finger to elitists all around the world who want America to suffer simply to promote their global warming alarmism.	True
Thousands break off every year.	But the threat is expected to return to the coastal South African city again next year and beyond.	There are also questions on how the water from the iceberg will be channelled into the city's distribution system.	Mother Nature has been teasing mankind with this for a long time saying 'this is here'.	Earlier this year Cape Town came within weeks of shutting off all its taps and forcing residents to queue for water rations at public standpipes.	True
Governor Brown has pushed two contradictory agendas for months.	Mandating conservation however is drastically different from incentivizing it.	John Woodling of the Sacramento Regional Water Authority told the Sacramento Bee that Browns assertion of state power in this area will give it permanent unchecked control over local water management decisions.	But water conservation can only go so far.	In January Californias Jerry Brown became the first governor in the states history to declare a state of emergency for a drought and a flood simultaneously.	False
It could lead to a carbon tariff trade war.	But withdrawing from the landmark accord that committed nearly every nation to take action against planet warming emissions could create diplomatic blowback while weakening American leadership in arenas far afield from energy and the environment.	Harold G. Hamm the chief executive of Continental Resources and a Trump campaign adviser has also condemned the pact.	Bob Murray the chief executive of the coal company Murray Energy who is personally close with the president has also strongly criticized the deal.	Mr. Book the analyst noted that the risks of withdrawing from the Paris deal include not only diplomatic ill will but also the possibility of trade reprisals.	True
This is our chance to decide what that road will look like.	In 50 years she says it's going to be very different.	We have a monumental task in front of us says co author Natalie Mahowald from Cornell University but it is not impossible.	But most governments now fear the cost of a global overhaul of the world's energy economy in the short time needed to meet the Paris climate goals.	Scientists and climate researchers have long doubted that the 1.5 degree C goal was practical or economically feasible.	True
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	And were recycling recycling recycling.	They referred to the irreversible agreement as a vital instrument for our planet societies and economies.	Its the height of irony given Europes virtue signaling last year.	There is nothing more vital for environmental protection than our freedom to protect the environment as individuals without Big Government and its endless red tape.	True
Speaking at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow slammed the progressive proposal that was recently introduced by Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez of New York and Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts.	The resolution co sponsored by several Democrats running for President in 2020 has been heavily criticized by those on the right.	Ocasio Cortez fired back on Twitter and said A living wage isn't a gift it's a right.	Kudlow said the deal will knock out energy transportation airlines jobs businesses.	Kudlow said universal health care and ending private insurance were also crazy ideas citing high costs.	False
Although DiCaprio is a self proclaimed environmentalist he continued to live an incompatible lifestyle of massive carbon emissions.	Clooney criticized global warming skeptics as stupid and ridiculous in 2013.	The actor also asked if are we too late to stop climate change and blasted the supposed corporate greed of the coal oil and gas industries in January 2016.	But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?	In 2011 she co wrote a USA Today op ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change.	True
Republican lawmakers worried the Obama era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers.	The resolution calls for aWorld War II style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Certainly environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of peoples diets in the name of the climate but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health.	True
He criticized Trumps sudden announcement of a potential withdrawal as not the way it should be done.	Trade Renegotiate NAFTA.	He vigorously opposed a Texas law Davis Juli n Castro rally abortion rights 4660994.php to ban abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy and limit facilities and access to abortions in general.	Social issues Abortion should remain legal after 20 weeks.	Immigration ICE and the border Allow a path to citizenship house committee spars with san antonio mayor.html for most undocumented immigrants.	True
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	And therein lies the problem.	The ties that bound the UN and the Obama administration should not be allowed to constrain the choices of everyday Americans.	To make sure the two sides stay in touch such meetings are to take place at least once every six months in accordance with an agenda approved by them in advance of every meeting.	For the common goals and objectives shared by the U.N. body and the Obama administration are specifically crafted to hamstring American fossil fuel energy development promote an assortment of politically fashionable but otherwise uncompetitive green technologies and products and perpetuate the deplorable living conditions in the worlds poorest countries.	True
Among the list of the biggest threats to food and water security were pollution climate change and deforestation.	Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have.	Scientists say governments businesses and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming fishing forestry mining or infrastructure development.	The report conducted by 550 experts from around the world said reduced biodiversity could affect people's quality of life.	The actions of mankind could lead to the extinction of half of African birds and mammals by the end of 2100 a UN backed study has said.	False
She said the effects of invasive species such as kudzu lionfish and Australian pines have already caused chaos in the southern states where they lack predators and displace native plants and animals and already cost the states millions of dollars in losses and eradication.	She points to the massive wildlife that hit Portugal last month that left 60 people dead and one that happened in Chile in January.	Activists from the South Pacific Islands Southern Asia and North and South America weighed in rejecting all genetically engineered trees including field trials.	Petermann said another red flag is wildfires.	She said it was clear that the planet once had rivers and great amounts of water and possibly an atmosphere similar to ours but a global catastrophe had happened.	True
It would behoove the networks to focus their discussion on getting at these subtle differences among the candidates like what executive orders they would sign how high climate change ranks as a priority and what measures would a candidate pursue to ensure a just transition to clean energy.	CNNs climate change forum has immense potential to illuminate real differences among the candidates and inform the public about the often weedy details of climate policy.	Voxs David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points.	Much of the discussion was shallow and uninformative partly a consequence of having to split attention across 20 candidates.	Washington Gov.	True
They're a matter of life or death.	At this year's State of the Union address Trump talked about ending the war on beautiful clean coal.	A fifth generation coal miner from Virginia has spoken out against President Donald Trump's rhetoric surrounding the coal mining industry saying the President is making false promises that are only going to line the pockets of coal executives.	In a New York Times op ed video published Tuesday Nick Mullins a ninth generation Appalachian from Virginia said that if Trump wants to help the Appalachian mining communities that support him lowering emission standards is not the way to do it.	We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue he said.	True
The new order could put the administration at loggerheads with California regulators again.	It marks the latest assault on clean air rules putting poor people and communities of color particularly at risk.	In what could be the most controversial part the order requires the EPAs science advisers to consider the downside of cleaner air rulessomething for which industry groups have clamored for years.	This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters its nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science gut our clean air protections and put polluter profits ahead of our health Sara Jordan a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters said in a statement.	That directive is likely to prompt watchdog groups to sue.	True
In a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity it is necessary to recall the values of custody of creation the preferential option for the poor and the peace that is built in everyday life including with attention to the care of the common home she said.	The Assisi diocese joined the dioceses of Caserta and Gubbio in this symbolic gesture along with dozens of other Catholic organizations throughout the world such as the Archdiocese of Cape Town the Belgian bishops conference the German Bank for Church and Caritas.	Coordinating these efforts is the World Catholic Climate Change Movement which in January sponsored the first world conference on fossil fuel divestment from a Catholic perspective at Romes Pontifical Lateran University.	As part of the Pope for Ukraine initiative Francisdonatedmore than 2.5 tons of fuel per displaced family cared for by the parish of the Holy Theotokos in the village of Vilcha.	Earlier this year Pope Francis momentarily departed from his denunciation of fossil fuels offering a large donation of tons of cost effective fuel briquettes to heat the homes of internally displaced persons IDPs in Ukraine.	False
In her impassioned address yesterday she said 'This is all wrong.	People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	She skipped school for the first three weeks after term began and then took Fridays off to spend the day outside Sweden's parliament with a sign labelled 'School strike for climate'.	The 16 year old is taking a year out of school to lobby for climate action after starting the school strike movement in Sweden last August.	'You have stolen my dreams my childhood with your empty words.	True
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The new rule is really a dereliction of duty moral ethical but also legal Andres Restrepo a lawyer with the Sierra Club's Environmental Law Program told the Post.	While Trump has been in office the air has gotten dirtier.	To make matters worse on Wednesday the EPA finalized what will be its biggest climate policy rollback according to the Washington Post.	That's the exact opposite of what Trump regularly claims.	True
This is critically important for two main reasons.	The other is that particulate emissions play a key role in the bureaucratic politics of climate change.	Climate change garners most of the headlines but the Trump administration is pushing a much larger and broader pro pollution agenda whose latest manifestation is a push at the EPA to overturn a long established scientific consensus that fine particulate pollution colloquially soot kills people.	Tony Cox an industry consultant Trump tapped to lead the EPAs Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee argues that the EPAs agencys current standards for evaluating this question does not feature enough causal rigor.	Each of these impacts independently suggests that we are currently allowing too much air pollution and they also cry out for more research that attempts to assess the long term cumulative impact of pollutants that appear to induce cognitive problems throughout the life cycle.	False
Rising temperatures Montana is warming nearly twice as quickly as the global average and changes in precipitation patterns are eroding away glaciers in the state and elsewhere along the Rocky mountains.	Its inevitable that we will lose them all over the next few decades Farge said.	Some have lost as much as 85 of their expanse over the past 50 years with Glacier national park site of 37 of the surveyed glaciers set to lose all of its eponymous ice formations within the next few decades.	Andrew Fountain a geologist at Portland State added While the shrinkage in Montana is more severe than some other places in the US it is in line with trends that have been happening on a global scale.	wikimedia commons Its now inevitable that the contiguous United States will lose all of its glaciers within a matter of decades according to scientists who have revealed the precipitous shrinkage of dozens of glaciers in Montana.	True
The battle of Initiative 1631 has become the most expensive in state history so far drawing 45 million from both sides of the policy.	The political battle heated up that month when gas tax opponents threatened to recall Attorney General Xavier Becerra a Democrat for allegedly trying to mislead voters about the proposal.	Opponents have attacked the ballot measure for its odd pairing of issues smoking and offshore drilling.	The Daily Caller News Foundation lays out everything one needs to know about the six most important energy battles this election.	While our editorial board opposes offshore drilling in state waters we also are philosophically opposed to the Constitution Revision Commissions bundling of these unrelated issues into a single amendment the editorial board of Treasure Coast Newspapers wrote in October.	True
The consent decrees here involve violations of federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act.	And one new measure of Pruitts foot dragging thats just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately.	In his first year as head of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt has made a huge mark shrinking his agency and repealing as many Obama era environmental regulations as possible.	Less enforcement doesnt mean there arent a whole lot of violations that are out there said Eric Schaeffer executive director of the Environmental Integrity Project who led the civil enforcement office at the EPA under Presidents Clinton and Bush in a call with reporters.	And as I pointed out last month in this feature story hes also overseen a drastic slowdown in the day to day work of the agency.	True
This story was originally published byHuffPostand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	The loss came as Coloradans voted down Proposition 112 a measure that would have put about 85 percent of non federal land in the Centennial State off limits to oil and gas drilling.	Yet fears over rising gas prices proved more convincing to Evergreen State voters.	But Initiative 1631 took a different approach imposing the carbon price in the form of a fee.	The Evergreen States third and latest attempt to put a price on climate pollution failed Tuesday as voters rejected the historic ballot measure notching yet another win for the oil and gas industry.	True
Gov.	But at the state level politicians are fighting back and nowhere more so than in California.	Heoutraged the world by exiting the Paris climate agreement.	He is trying to undo the Clean Power Plan fuel economy standards for carsoffshore drilling restrictions and solar tax credits.	Republicans cast the deciding votes amid the endorsement of prominent California GOP politicians like former Gov.	False
The businessman denounced the choice as a 'marketing gimmick' and said the prize should have honored 'Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms' his father was also a finalist.	Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.'	The 16 year old Swedish face of climate activism made headlines after shouting 'How dare you?'	at world leaders at the U.N. General Assembly earlier this year accusing them of failing the younger generation.	The young activist attracted international attention after holding a sign that said 'skolstrejk fr klimatet' or 'School strike for the climate' in Swedish parliament last year.	True
People are unhappy and that means they may make irrational decisions.	The research was published in the journal Nature Human Behaviour.	It suggests that people were four points unhappier than they would have been without polluted levels.	They found a significantly negative correlation between pollution and happiness levels with every increase in pollution above a healthy level bringing happiness down by 0.04 points out of 100.	Air pollution is not just bad for health also makes people unhappy a new study has shown.	True
The report delivers a strikingly different message than the one being pushed by Trump and his Cabinet members who continue to downplay the urgency of the threat as they work toward energy dominance.	Meanwhile his Cabinet members have refused to say whether Trump believes climate change is real and continue to question how much the scientific community understands about the threat and the role humans play in observed changes.	Is man having an effect on it?	In a post to Twitter Gavin Schmidt a climate scientist and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies said that nothing in the report is surprising for people working in the field but that it may be shocking to those that think climate change is just a future problem.	In June he announced plans topull the U.S. out of the historic Paris Agreement on climate change the international accord in which nearly 200 countries committed to slashing carbon emissions in an effort to prevent global temperatures fromincreasing 2 degrees Celsiusabove pre industrial levelsthe line scientists say the world must stay below to stave off the very worst effects of climate change.	True
Critics have railed against the Interior Department for moves seen as halting scientific growth.	'It's infuriating that Trump would halt this study on the health effects of mountaintop removal coal mining research that people in Appalachia have been demanding for years' Bill Price Senior Appalachia Organizing Representative for Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign said in a statement.	'Stopping this study is a ploy to stop science in its tracks and keep the public in the dark about health risks as a favor to the mining industry pure and simple' said Democratic Representative Ral Grijalva of Arizona ranking member of the House Committee on Natural Resources in a statement.	And Interior Department climate scientist Joel Clement allegedthat he and dozens of other scientists had been arbitrarily reassigned.	Additionally his proposed 2018 budget would cut funding for the Office of Surface Mining which is responsible for protecting society and the environment from the adverse effects of surface coal mining operations.	True
he said.	Here's why it matters We now have to monitor this glacier carefully.	A massive waterfall formed on Greenland's ice sheet.	Morlighem says climate change could impact this region.	And because of the size of the area they were trying to map the process was very time consuming.	True
Concern about climate has heightened in recent weeks amid fires in the Arctic and the Amazon rainforest and melting of ice in Greenland.	Environmentalists vowed to sue the administration over the proposal.	We simply cannot protect our children and grandchildren from climate catastrophe if EPA lets this industry off scot free said David Doniger a climate and clean energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council.	If EPA moves forward with this reckless and sinister proposal we will see them in court.	The plan will undergo a period of public comment before being finalized and environmental groups pledged court action to try to block repeal of the limits.	False
When companies make these pledges to be sustainably sourced or use recycled content that's the problem that they're solving.	It's just unacceptable that a company like PG is making toilet paper a product that is used for seconds and flushed from virgin pulp said Shelley Vinyard boreal corporate campaign manager for the Natural Resources Defense Council and one of several dozen protesters at PG's annual shareholders meeting in Cincinnati Ohio on Tuesday.	It could potentially be a mix.	We believe in the dignity of life and part of that is having a place to live he said.	Consumer goods giant Procter Gamble faces pressure from environmentalists to clean up its act.	True
A number of Pruitt policies are thought to be shoddily constructed and have faced significant legal challenges.	As the New York Times points out however there is one crucial way that Wheeler differs from his departing boss.	Inhofe was among Pruitts biggest fans although the barrage of scandals ultimately began to dim his enthusiasm.	Inhofe is known for denying that climate change is affected by human activity once throwing a snowball onto the Senate floor to counter arguments about climate change and prove that it was very very cold outside.	Pruitt was Oklahomas attorney general before being named to Trumps Cabinet and an outsider who recklessly took advantage of the privileges he obtained.	True
The courts ruling is yet another reminder now in the context of environmental protection that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the presidents desire to order immediate change Richard Lazarus environmental law professor at Harvard Law School said in an email as reported by the Post.	At the time Pruitt was the Attorney General of Oklahoma and he and others sued the EPA to overturn the legislation.	There will be a separate administration public hearing on the same extension next Monday according to the Washington Post.	Lazarus continued the DC Circuits ruling today makes clear that neither the president nor his EPA administrator Scott Pruitt can by fiat unilaterally and instantaneously repeal or otherwise stay the effectiveness of the environmental protection rules put into place during the Obama administration.	Pruitt has also begun to move on suspending or revoking many other measures which were implemented during the Obama years.	True
This is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights Olson said in court papers.	Aiken said in an Oct. 15 ruling that although the case raised questions about the role of the judiciary delving into a matter of policy those concerns were not enough to warrant a dismissal of the entire case.	The loss for the administration means it now faces a high profile examination of U.S. climate change policy during the trial that was due to begin on Oct. 29 in Eugene Oregon but has since been postponed by the judge.	The administration has said a courtroom is not the appropriate venue for a debate on climate change policy.	This suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions Trump administration Solicitor General Noel Francisco said in court papers.	True
This sets in motion a welcome correction to a deeply problematic regulation that ignored the careful balance that Congress struck between federal and state water regulation and constitutional limits on federal authority said Hal Quinn NMA president and chief executive.	But while the rule was applauded by environmentalists for improving drinking water protections and aiding wildlife that relies on wetlands it was attacked by some farmers and golf course operators who claimed it hindered their ability to manage their land.	Trump has called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation and a massive power grab.	Once again the Trump administration has agreed to do the bidding of the worst polluters in our country and once again its putting the health of American families and communities at risk said Michael Brune executive director of Sierra Club.	Signing his order the president said thousands of jobs were at risk because the EPA decided that navigable waters can mean nearly every puddle or every ditch on a farmers land or anyplace else that they decide.	False
The sale comes amid an ongoing debate over drilling in states like Colorado Arizona and New Mexico where a coalition of tribes are calling for a halt on energy development near land that Native Americans consider sacred.	Hovenweep is in all of our stories and to threaten the integrity of these structures jeopardizes everything weve carried forward as resilient people.	But the new energy dominated era she said were in has made public input on these processes harder.	When this oil and gas leasing happens on or near sacred lands it risks de stabilizing the bedrock of the structures said Ahjani Yepa a member of Utah Din Bikyah a Navajo grass roots organization.	You wouldnt like it if I went into your home your land and started digging.	False
On one side of that debate is a theological argument thats gained prominence in some corners of evangelical Christianity over the past decade.	The position paper called for protecting Gods creation and embracing the governments help in doing so.	But after receiving unanimous support by the board the 30 million member organization voted down the proposal kickstarting a campaign by fossil fuel interests to transform the doubt over global warming into what Splinter in a lengthy report published in August succinctly described as the word of God.	The former judge says he places Gods law above the Constitution describes Islam as a false religion and has repeatedly defied federal orders to remove religious ornaments from his courtroom.	told HuffPost.	True
What are we looking for?	Wall asked.	Many survivors at Monday's forum and in fire zones where people are returning say they are confused about what authorities will allow them to do at their blackened properties before the massive waste removal.	Laney Wall who lost her home in the Sonoma County community of Fountaingrove asked why homeowners had to go through the expense trouble and wait of the clean up at all.	I just have more questions now Danny Thom another Fountaingrove resident said after the meeting.	False
President Donald Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement has been portrayed in some press coverage as a decision driven by either his personal idiosyncrasies or the policy agenda of White House chief strategist Steve Bannon.	Which makes it the crucial context for Trumps move Thursday.	The reality is that one of the USs two major political parties is institutionally committed at nearly every level to the same basic agenda of environmental deregulation and inaction on carbon emissions.	Though Trumps withdrawal from the Paris agreement has been received by some as a shocking move it was hardly a fringe position in the Republican Party he was being outright pressured to do it.	The occasional notable Republican politician who does conclude that the scientific consensus is accurate and tries to work with Democrats on the issue gets slammed by these passionate and well organized groups and can face serious pressure from the right as happened to Lindsey Graham when he was working on a cap and trade bill in 2010 and got attacked by Fox News.	True
How did the resistance get to this point?	How else to explain last months comments that environmental activists are just like those who were on the beaches in Normandy.	Its embarrassing.	But he doesnt care because in his mind its real.	Its hard not to look at this hyperactive Gen X er and think this is exactly what the far left has become a group that has rarely experienced hardship in their lifetime because of the greatest generation comparing everything they find upsetting to the greatest generation.	False
Merkel called the conversation controversial.	On the other side President Trump.	And up for debate the peril of climate change and the urgency of the U.S. commitment to the Paris accord to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.	And then there was the chat between the G 7 leaders.	Still to be determined whether it was persuasive or consequential.	True
Photo GettyEyeEm The evidence behind global climate change continues to mount and scientists keep speaking out.	Now they hope the world will listen.	Its intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that youre talking about.	Were scientists and were providing objective information Jessica Blunden a climate scientist at NOAAs National Climatic Data Center in Asheville N.C. told Yahoo News.	There are about four different independent data sets we looked at to come to this conclusion Blunden told Yahoo News.	True
Its a climate crisisThat is why I support a Green New Deal.	People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices.	We cannot accept a status quo where children of color are drinking toxic water in Flint or breathing toxic air in Louisianas Cancer AlleyHarris said in a statement.	I dont even call it climate change she said.	It does begin to answer one of the key questions around the Green New Deal debate which is how to include low income and communities of colorthe frontline voices facing the most dire effects of climate changein the legislative process.	True
Now whats the negotiating process?	The official insisted his own views were irrelevant while a White House staff member interjected Can we stay on topic please?	The official echoed Can we stay on topic please?	There was a chorus of condemnation from world leaders former president Barack Obama and Trumps defeated election opponent Hillary Clinton who branded it a historic mistake.	one said.	True
On Tuesday some of the Republicans in hiding were not sure what to make of Courtneys statement about the votes.	Republicans had used the moment as an opportunity to appear defiant with one Republican state senator Brian Boquist even threatening police.	The concession from Democrats may have been motivated by a time constraint.	They also said they were being bullied by Senate Democrats.	Democratic Gov.	True
It is an international crisis.	This is the war we are facing.	On the question of burning in the Amazon which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money what is the intention?	Members of the G7 Summit lets discuss this emergency first order in two days Meanwhile a spokesperson for the Elyse Palace said that in light of Brazils attitude these recent weeks Macron can only conclude that President Bolsonaro lied to him during the Osaka Summit in June where world leaders agreed on the urgent need to combat climate change pollution and environmental destruction.	These countries that send money here they dont send it out of charity he said.They send it with the aim of interfering with our sovereignty.	True
The offshore drilling announcement drew immediate outrage from both Democrats and Republicans who expressed concern about possible environmental damage and negative effects on tourism.	The language also points to broader reform efforts that occurred after the Gulf spill including thedivision of the Minerals Management Service the scandal plagued agency faced with the conflicting tasks of issuing leases and policing offshore drilling operations into three new agencies.	He also expressed concern about merging the two agencies but said the administration has in effect already done that by putting the safety bureau in the hands of Angelle a big proponent of offshore fossil fuel development.	Rick Scott a staunch Trump supporter he was removing the states coastal waters from consideration.	She said it references the Well Control Rule and the Production Safety Systems Rule two regulations that were under development back in early 2015 and are now on Trumps chopping block.	True
Firstly he called me a liar.	He wrote Do not humiliate the guy ha ha.	The two presidents hold sharply different political views with Mr Bolsonaro hailing from the far right in Brazil and Mr Macron elected in a run off against the far right in France.	Every year it is the same these fires are disturbing the region a lot.	It's a risky situation we have lots of crops here and everything is burning such as the cashew trees he told the BBC.	True
And while the fires have been burning for weeks the international outcry grew this week as photographs spread on social media.	Yet his tune appeared to change after leaders in Europe said a major trade deal could be at risk and many on social media started calling for a boycott of Brazilian products.	That was quite a change in tune for a president who had previously described environmental protections as an impediment for economic growth and had blamed non governmental organizations of starting the fires.	Protests took place in Brazil and across the world Friday and Saturday demanding that the Brazilian government take action.	Yet despite the new found sense of urgency some are skeptical that the involvement of the military would really be able to do much.	True
What they are saying in their different ways is that global warming as in the big scare story that the planet is heating up at a catastrophic unprecedented rate because of man made CO2 emissions is bunk or that the methods being used to combat the problem are bunk.	Greenhouse Effect Not the Main Driver of Climate Together with these 400 new papers that makes 900 science papers in the last two years casting doubt on global warming.	Detecting a clear anthropogenic forcing signal amidst the noise of unforced natural variability may therefore be difficult.	In other words nobody is denying that climate changes nobody is denying that the planet has warmed by 0.8 degrees C in the last 150 yearswhile only a handfuldeny that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases has the power to influence temperatures.	a greener planet and enhanced crop yields.	True
The lawsuit contended that the companies sought to refute scientific findings regarding how greenhouse gas pollution was causing climate change and failed to prevent the harm that would result from consumers using fossil fuel products.	The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products.	Kilmartin is seeking to force the companies to pay for damages associated with climate change citing the costs taxpayers were incurring to repair roads and bridges and rebuild coastal structures.	The lawsuit announced by Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Kilmartin was the first by a state seeking to hold oil companies responsible for costs associated with climate change and followed similar cases by several local governments nationally.	Shell in a statement said lawsuits that masquerade as climate action and impede the collaboration needed for meaningful change were not the answer to climate change.	True
On a broader note Im confused.	Weird how everything just so happens to reinforce her political narrative and now shes back with another hot take.	It was because the infrastructure is falling apart.	But making sense isnt a tenant of the climate religion.	The citys communist Mayor Bill de Blasio has run it into the ground with stupid financial decisions and misuse of funds.	True
The E.P.A.	Want climate news in your inbox?	The proposed shift is the latest example of the Trump administration downgrading the estimates of environmental harm from pollution in regulations.	had originally forecast that eliminating the Obama era rule the Clean Power Plan and replacing it with a new measure would have resulted in an additional 1400 premature deaths per year.	Sign up here for Climate Fwd our email newsletter.	True
Thats the environmentalinjustice and racism that were dealing with and my plan would equip Americans with the tools tofight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what isright now a tremendous injustice he said.	Theyre often communities of color.	Theyre the ones who can least afford to deal with the climate crisis he said during the CNN town hall.	We know that this climate crisis is going to affect all Americans and all folks around the world but we also know that its going to hit some people particularly hard people that are the first people to get affected he said.	You all know that oftentimes the first folks that get flooded out are the poorest communities.	True
Yet two years later the company is still battling environmentalists and regulators in the state as the utility seeks to pass the cleanup costs onto ratepayers in the form of a price hike.	Gutting the EPAs rules on coal ash pollution takes some pressure off the utilities but thrusts the industry back into the sort of regulatory uncertainty Pruitt vowed to alleviate.	In a separate legal fight over coal ash the Tennessee Valley Authority the nations biggest public utility last month appealed a federal judges order to clean up decades of coal ash environmentalists say poisoned water in the Volunteer State.	Scrapping the only federal rules on coal ash presents a major problem in the face of storms floods and other extreme weather made more frequent and intense by climate change.	In 2014 Duke Energy one of the countrys biggest power companies spilled nearly 39000 tons of coal ash into the Dan River causing one of North Carolinas biggest environmental disasters in its history.	True
The pledge is a significant change in position for van Beurden who had previously opposed such proposals citing concerns about potential lawsuits.	The lack of transparency and competition in the proxy advisory firm industry gives a small number of businesses significant influence over how corporations deal with environmental issues.	His concerns about potential waves of lawsuits are not unfounded.	The company has also pledged to review its connections to industry lobbying groups that oppose the Paris agreement a non binding deal crafted in 2015 with the goal of dramatically reducing global carbon emissions over the next 15 years.	The process especially disadvantages small companies in favor of larger companies that have the resources to comply with investor dictates the American Council for Capital Formation noted in May.	True
No harm no foul.	The rollbacks an international signal that were not taking carbon capture and sequestration and reducing impacts from coal seriously said Jay Duffy an associate attorney at the Clean Air Task Force.	Its nothing burger he said.	But its not regulations that are hurting the US coal industry its competition.	But the coal industry argued in court that these technologies are too expensive and immature to deploy at scale so the new standard is too difficult to meet.	True
The New Deal.	Yet IPCC report authorsframedthis as a problem of political will not economics and technology.	Ocasio Cortez said at an event in New York City Monday night.	And what preceded World War II?	The freshman Democrat pointed to a Voxarticlewarning we have just 12 years to limit devastating global warming and a Guardianarticleclaiming we have 12 years to limit climate change catastrophe both articles were based on a United Nations report from October 2018.	True
It is incredibly frustrating he says.	This poses problems for the seeds of the wax palm.	With the area now safer and more accessible following the 2016 peace deal with the Farc rebels farmers are moving back and the scientists fear for the future of the national tree.	The government has the authority to buy this land and protect the trees but refuses to do so.	I'm so disappointed Mr Bernal says.	True
The presidential candidate was running more than 45 minutes late and was just beginning to lose his audienceIm starting not to love Pete so much someone remarkedwhen he took the stage.	This story was originally published byGristand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	As well as the fact that we as a country need a project and climate change is as good a one as well ever have.	But where does Buttigieg stand when it comes to implementing an economy wide plan?	First A carbon tax and dividend.	True
He repeatedly misrepresented his own agencys findings about a rule to gut an Obama era power plant regulation inflating the emissions cuts the new proposal would mandate.	It was a brazen if not unexpected stance from the nominee to become the EPAs 15th administrator.	He even mixed up two of the most important climate science reports to come out in the last three months admitting he hadnt fully read the report co authored by researchers at his own agency.	That meeting ended as another photo showed with a hug between Perry and Murray.	Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse D R.I. brought out some visual aids to question Wheeler further about his relationship with Murray including a poster sized printout of a photo leaked from a March 2017 meeting between Murray and Energy Secretary Rick Perry where the coal executive provided a detailed wish list of policies to the administration.	True
Beykpour offered his boss two long shot options to push back against the public outcry.	With pro corporate protesters likely to raise some eyebrows he outlined a more radical approach sue locals in the area for past damages to the local water system to bring them to the table.	Locals did come out in force against the plant with concerned citizens flooding council meetings since the plans were announced last month.	The Chronicle rubbished the threat quoting a media law expert who stated that the companys email screw up was its own fault and not the newspapers.	Option one involved hiring a PR firm to manufacture fake grassroots support for the facility and change the conversation.	True
The change has drawn criticism by park advocates and some trail enthusiasts who say the administration did not do enough to seek public input on a policy that could damagethe park experience for many.	But this announcement disregards well established policies for how visitors can enjoyably and safely experience the backcountry in national parks said Kristen Brengel senior vice president at the National Parks Conservation Association.	Park visitors posting in June before the policy was announced on the independent National Parks Traveler web siteexpressed mixed opinions on the expanded use of the electronic bikes.	For generations weve agreed that there are some places so special that they should be protected for visitors to enjoy away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life.	WASHINGTON A Trump administration plan to provide older and disabled citizens greater access to national parks by expandingthe use of electric bikes is revving upcriticism from nature advocates who say the policy threatens to disturb pristine trails and poses a safety hazard.	False
Local authorities struggled to respond as demonstrators resorted to violence and vandalism.	These facts received little coverage the media instead portraying a David and Goliath fight in which virtuous protesters took on a corrupt wealthy industry.	The environmental Left rushed to publicize the incident as an I told you so moment but activists gloating reveals either their cynical dishonesty or their ignorance about how modern pipelines work.	In actuality the protests were anything but peaceful as we reported at the time.	Such biased narratives have bedeviled the Dakota Access Pipeline from the beginning.	True
Its simple the more diverse the group discussing the problem is the more comprehensive sustainable and creative the solutions are.	Its urgent that we bring more voices into the conversation.	The time has come for radical thinking for inclusive problem solving for crowd sourced innovation.	Forests are shifting and the first climate refugees have lost their homes.	AP PhotoNam Y. HuhAP It seems like every week theres a new story about some completely unprecedented unpredictable environmental event.	False
Participating in the deal the president argued puts us at a permanent disadvantage.	PARIS AGREEMENT ON CLIMATE CHANGE WASHINGTON REACTS TO US PULLOUT The Paris accord will undermine our economy Trump said during the announcement in the White House Rose Garden.	Former Vice President Al Gore blasted the decision of President Donald Trump to remove the U.S. from the Paris Climate Agreement on Thursday calling it reckless and indefensible.	It undermines Americas standing in the world and threatens to damage humanitys ability to solve the climate crisis in time.	Civic leaders mayors governors CEOs investors and the majority of the business community will take up this challenge Gore said.	True
RELATED Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado However not all scientists agreed.	North Carolina Democratic Gov.	Cato Institute atmospheric scientist Ryan Maue pointed out thatFlorence formed over abnormally cool ocean waters then weakened over cooler waters the opposite of what forecasters expected.	With historic storms lashing our state we must combat climate change make our state more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters.	Coopers order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles use more wind and solar energy and cut energy use at state owned buildings.	True
Inspired by the young people leading on todays and committed to standing alongside them in the battle against climate change The global strike follows Thunbergs appearance before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and Select Committee on the Climate Crisis.	Videos are surfacing from protests across the globe showing sizable crowds in places like Ireland Germany Australia Uganda and more Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn participated in the climate strikes in London and condemned President Trump for pulling out of the Paris Climate Agreement.	The global strike set just days before September 23s U.N.	There is nothing more powerful than our nations youth marching together demanding action be taken to protect our planet and their future Sen. Kamala Harris D CA wrote.	he added Our planet is in crisisbut we arent powerless to combat it Sen. Cory Booker D NJ declared.	True
We face a direct existential threat.	Delegations from both countries will attend today's U.N. summit but their positions have diverged.	I am appealing for leadership from politicians from businesses and scientists and from the public everywhere U.N. Secretary General Antnio Guterres said when he announced the summit.	In the U.S. President Trump has threatened to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and his administration has moved to allow greater emissions from power plants vehicles and oil and gas operations.	The summit acts as a kickoff to international climate negotiations in 2020 which is the next deadline for countries to make dramatic emissions reduction promises under the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change.	True
The body which is meeting this week aims to get all the worlds governments singing from the same sheet about the need to protect natural systems.	This is fuelling climate change and compromising our attempts to feed a growing world population the authors will say.	All three are equally important to human wellbeing.	The warning will come from the awkwardly named IPBES the Intergovernmental Science Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services a panel studying the benefits of nature to humans.	Governments have focused on climate change far more than they have focused on loss of biodiversity or land degradation.	True
We are faced not with two separate crises one environmental and the other social but rather with one complex crisis which is both social and environmental he said.	The pontiff tied together social and ecological problems insisting that the two are intimately intertwined.	He also denounced a failure to recycle paper and other resources while calling climate change a global problem with grave implications and one of the principal challenges facing humanity in our day.	The deterioration of that biodiversity compromises the future of the country and of the earth our common home he warned.	In a word there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earths goods not only of present generations but also of those yet to come he said.	True
The article detailed aU.N.	An Associated Press headline from 1989 read Rising seas could obliterate nations U.N. officials.	Before the end of the month 2020 candidates are expected to have another climate forum at Georgetown University.	Earlier this month leading Democratic presidential candidates held a town hall on the issue and warned about the existential threat posed by a changing climate.	Climate Action Summit on Sept. 23an event that promises to spark the transformation that is urgently needed and propel action that will benefit everyone.	True
The Sussexes came under fire over the summer after taking a private flight to the home of singer Sir Elton John in Nice.	In September's edition of Vogue edited by Meghan the prince spoke about environmental issues and his love for nature saying We are the one species on this planet that seems to think that this place belongs to us and only us.	At the launch of Travalyst aimed at encouraging the tourism industry to become more sustainable the duke was asked about his travel behaviour.	Occasionally there needs to be an opportunity based on a unique circumstance to ensure that my family are safe it's generally as simple as that.	Questions have been asked about the royal couple's use of private jets and their impact following their support of environmental causes.	True
Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oils exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012 which led to a series of problems mistakes and violations of environmental laws.	On its way back from the Beaufort Sea it lost control of its drilling vessel the Kulluk which ran aground in the Gulf of Alaska in severe weather and had to be towed to Seattle Washington and then scrapped.	The Center for Biological Diversity Greenpeace and REDOIL a coalition of Alaska native groups sued the Trump administration on May 3 citing the risk of offshore oil and gas exploration development to local communities and wildlife.	The area is remote and foreboding the complaint said.	The lawsuit also argued that Trumps reversal of the ban exceeded his constitutional authority and was thus unlawful.	True
Young people and Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma.	I wouldnt even call it compromises.	The Democratic Party has long been dogged by tensions between environmentalists clamoring for action on climate change and labor leaders warning against policies that ostracize the fossil fuel industry which provides high paid construction jobs.	In the meantime the administration has worked hard to further undercut the talks.	That mirrors the Trump administrations aggressive efforts to unwind the few relatively weak climate regulations that exist and to upend fragile negotiations at the 24th Conference of the Parties in Katowice Poland where diplomats this week are struggling to garner support for basic resolutions recognizing the scientific consensus on global warming.	True
But on the other it could put candidates in a difficult position when pressed on the costs and impact on certain jobs and industries.	Our first step is to define the problem and define the scope of the solution Ocasio Cortez told reporters during a Thursday afternoon press conference for her newly introduced proposal which was quickly backed by Democratic presidential hopefuls Senators Kirsten Gillibrand Kamala Harris Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker.	The debate over Medicare for All has already shown the kinds of risks and rewards candidates face.	The lack of specifics could present opportunities and liabilities for presidential candidates.	It will make clear who is just using it as a buzzword and who is taking it seriously.	True
But we were busy.	The problem is when people think a resource is free and so plentiful that it can never run out that you get situations where it does run out.	A tragedy is unfolding in Maharashtra and a money spinning racket for Tanker owners.	The public no tests no international treaties that will stop it.	Regarding the price of water.	True
In 2012 a heat kink caused a 32 car long freight train to derail and fly off an overpass a similar derailment happened in 2017.	Asphalt warps and melts.	Concrete if water is involved can sometimes explode or break open.	Kinks can form on train rails when the metal expands.	When temperatures get too high planes get grounded.	True
This is a worldwide issue and solving it will take cooperation from countries like China and India.	Jerry Brown.	5.	It's setting up coalitions of companies and lobbying Congress for new action on climate change.	CNN Candidates for the Democratic presidential nomination and most scientists say the climate crisis is the existential threat of our time while President Donald Trump once claimed it's a hoax cooked up by the Chinese.	True
has been asked to join her storyteller parents in telling a story of her own for a crowd.	However she's more into data than storytelling so the kids take a trip to a glacier allowing her to tell the story of you guessed it climate change which is met with a standing ovation by the audience.	This is what kids are getting excited about?	There is a pretty predictable take on climate change propaganda for little kids but that wasn't the worst.	Episode 12 Monster Power teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources.Albert one of the students has seen a movie in which the evil monster loves pollution and is coming for us next for what we've done to this planet!	False
The other from 2007 discussed how to survive global warming.	But there was one glaring problem The 1970s cover was a hoax.	This climate denier for example	One published by Newsweek is a favorite of climate deniers.	McFarland recently tried to get Trump riled up about climate change with a bit of fake news.	True
What they found was Mar a Lago was already in serious trouble.	He has threatened to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord in which countries around the world pledged to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to keep temperatures from rising past the critical 2C mark.	President Donald Trump has called climate change a hoax and a very expensive tax on American businesses that make the US less competitive.	The estate was at high risk for flooding during heavy rains and storms with water already pooling on the premises in addition to nearby bridges and roads in Palm Beach.	Last summer the Guardian investigated Trumps coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels.	True
These are decisions that impact the presidents ability to make foreign policy decisions Brouillette told TheDCNF.	Brouillette also stressed the geopolitical implications of LNG exports and the role energy could play in President Donald Trumps foreign policy.	Menezes said breaking FERCs deadlock was also an important step in helping DOE improve its own LNG terminal approval process including making sure theres no duplicative reviews.	Republican FERC commissioners Neil Chatterjee the chairman and Bernard McNamee worked with Democrat Cheryl LaFleur to hash out an agreement to get her support.	FERCs other Democratic commissioner Richard Glick opposed the terminalarguinghis colleagues were deliberately ignoring the consequences that its actions have for climate change.	False
These conversations come at a particularly fraught time because Trump who does not share his predecessor Barack Obamas commitment to clean energy has been reviewing the United States environmental policies.	Amid talk of combating terrorism and the global economy they also discussed international efforts to fight climate change.	It seems our attempt failed.	Trump goes after negative press covfefe in botched midnight tweet Duck!	European Commission President Jean Claude Juncker said President Trump doesnt seem to understand that he cant immediately yank the United States out of the Paris Agreement on climate change.	True
Thousands gathered in cities across the globe including London Berlin Tokyo and Washington DC to protest anthropogenic climate change and the purported lack of urgency to address it.	Several climate change activists in D.C. decried the U.S. for its role in contributing to climate change despite the fact that the U.S. has made great strides in reducing its carbon output seeing the largest decline in CO2 emissions in the world for 9th time this century in 2017.	Rep. Adam Kinzinger R IL reiterated that point to Greta Thunberg and the other climate kids who testified before theHouse Committee on Foreign Affairs andSelect Committee on the Climate Crisis on Wednesday.	However there was a remarkable lack of participation from individuals in China the planets worst greenhouse gas emitter minus a protest in Hong Kong.	We also pay attention to the climate and we are also thinking deeply interacting taking action and so many people are very conscientious on this issue she added.	True
The protest marked one of the most confrontational demands for a Green New Deal in months as local groups took up the mantle from national climate campaigners which have shifted their efforts to focus on demanding a climate only Democratic primary debate.	The Frontline Detroit Coalition the alliance of a dozen local environmental groups and unions who organized Tuesdays march struck a markedly different tone.	But because the events were held in a city threatened by rising sea levels debate questions focused on the magnitude of the global warming crisis and the risks posed by runaway emissions.	We are being robbed and pillaged by industry Landrum said her voice rising to a preachers righteous crescendo.	The three word slogan surged into Americas political lexicon last November when activists with the youth led Sunrise Movement occupied then incoming House Speaker Nancy Pelosis office demanding Democrats champion climate policy that actually matches the scope of the crisis.	True
Environmental advocacy groups quickly blasted Pruitt's decision with many vowing to fight the measure in court.	When you think about what that rule meant it was about picking winners and losers.	Regulatory power should not be used by any regulatory body to pick winners and losers he said at the event.	And Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club said Trump and Pruitt are launching one of the most egregious attacks on public health and climate safety.	When asked earlier this year on Fox News about the health consequences of doing away with the Clean Power Plan Pruitt ducked the question and focused on how the plan would cost jobs.	True
She can be very confusing.	Currys ultimate conclusion Some of the worst case scenarios strain credulity.	No one wants to hear this or actually spend time understanding things Curry said.	The other side of her thinks were foolish for believing her claim that climate change will destroy the world in 12 years.	The climate crisis is real yall Ocasio said on Instagram.	True
His run ins with climate science were repeatedly highlighted in responses to the retweet by thefirst daughter and senior White House adviser.	That is hypocrisy.	Robert Johnson February 21 2019 When you continue to deny climate science you cant make the claim that you are a driver of science policy.	Dawn Amos meh my dogs are the boss of me February 21 2019 You can't believe science in a selective manner and claim to be pro science.	On Wednesday The Washington Post reported that Trump was convening a panel the Presidential Committee on Climate Security to question the findings of federal scientists and experts on climate change andcounter red alert warningsfrom the scientific community.	False
The RFS has proven to be controversial with oil producers deriding the mandate as costly and unneeded.	RELATED New EPA Chief Will Continue Scott Pruitts War With The Corn Lobby During his time leading the EPA Scott Pruitt became an adversary of ethanol proponents after granting more RFS waivers and pushing for a rollback of the law altogether.	Its not immediately clear how the Trump administration will handle the RFS debate moving forward.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True
OCASIO CORTEZ CALLS CLIMATE CHANGE OUR 'WORLD WAR II' WARNS THE WORLD WILL END IN 12 YEARS So whenever those two things come in contrast or in opposition I'm always going to choose the people of this country.	Watters asked.	During that appearance he indicated that he would have to make himself an opponent of the oil and gas industries'interests.	We know that certain oil and gas corporations have been fighting public policy on this issue have been hiding their own science and research at the expense of our climate and human life he said.	When Ocasio Cortezresponded to O'Rourke's plan she said he didn't have an aggressive enough timeline.	True
Another pro hunting group says what they are seeing within Interior is a fight between access and conservation.	And the big thing that the secretary hears over and over again is that people just don't have access to land.	Access to our own public lands is a lot harder today than it ever has been and that is in part introduced with the decline in hunting numbers we've seen said Whit Fosburgh president and CEO of the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership a non profit coalition of conservation organizations and outdoor related businesses.	Fosberg's criticism is similar to what environmental groups said following the secretarial order last week.	On the conservation side however I think it's a much less rosy picture Fosburgh said.	False
For opponents of the president the prospect is a daunting one.	Scott Pruitt was the most scandal plagued cabinet member in an administration rife with corruption said Christy Goldfuss an environment advisor to Obama who is now at the Center for American Progress.	I wasnt interested in that.	I am still not interested in that.	Pruitt went about it enthusiastically but ran into legal action launched by states such as New York and California as well as environmental groups.	True
The Post also reported the sources claimed the carbon tax proposal is very controversial and that some within the administration are staunchly opposed to it.	Thats why I object to the Democrats as much as to the Republicans.	Opponents of the plan say its another form of socialistic wealth distribution that will dramatically raise energy costs.	According to the group which is led by former Secretaries of State James Baker III and George Shultz and former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson their plan would tax fossil fuel companies and redistribute the funds back to Americans in equal portions thereby artificially raising the price of fossil fuels and making renewable energy sources more competitive.	Opponents say energy costs will increase not only because of the tax but also because energy companies will raise prices across the board knowing that all consumers have more money to spend thanks to carbon tax dividends.	True
Mother Jonesasked an expert to decipher this nonsense and you can read his analysis here.	But the Department of the Interior disputes this in an email to Mother Jones saying The Secretary addressed the correlation between climate and fires dozens of times over the 48 hours he was in California and all week in interviews since returning.	Additionally in his op ed the Secretary directly addressed longer hotter drier seasons in the opening paragraphs.Its true that Zinke changed his tuneafter his earlier comments Zinke told reportersThursday that climate change has played a role in the fires and that global temperatures are rising.	In itthe service writes Of particular concern are longer fire seasons and the rising size and severity of wildfires along with the growing risk to lives homes natural resources and other values.	Its a breath of fresh air to see science instead of politics inserted into forest and fire management saidKirin Kennedy associatelegislative director for lands and wildlife at the Sierra Club in a statement.	False
Im perfectly willing to take on giant corporations.	Its highly explosive.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	Its a danger to the air we breathe.	Jay Inslee D ahead of CNNs town hall.	True
As we have said many times the Presidents team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the Presidents plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986 deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters said in a statement responding to WaPosstory.	But the White House quickly disavowed the statements allegedly made by the two officials marking the second time in three weeks the Trump administration has had to shoot down carbon tax rumors.	Conservative activists point out theres no deal to be made on trading federal environmental regulations for a carbon tax since Trumps already promised to roll back 75 percent of federal rules.	They argue its not very conservative to back what would essentially amount to a tax on energy which would effectively raise the price of all goods and services.	President Donald Trump told the American Energy Alliance in a survey taken during the campaign that he opposed a carbon tax and the Obama administrations social cost of carbon estimate.	False
The drilling issue has created strange political bedfellows along the East Coast with Democrats and Republicans in some areas united over the issue.	Voters said they had been turned off by what they saw as Arrington's flip flop on the issue and they turned instead to Cunningham's consistency.	The government doesn't get to pick winners and losers in this thing Mace said.	The governor and Attorney General Alan Wilson have resolved to continue working together to determine the best path forward Symmes said.	South Carolina Gov.	True
Conflicts exacerbated by drought heat and storms are a major concern for defense planners.	However Lengyel waffled on humanitys role in shaping the climate behind these storms.	Whatever the reason we have to be ready to deal with them.	I dont know why he said.	Either there was a plan in place to deal with an unprecedented storm at Tyndall and it wasnt followed or there wasnt one and were already seeing the consequences.	True
It helps give other islanders something to think about Ritter explains.	In May I experienced one hotel's efforts firsthand as I stood on the roof at ITC Maurya a hotel in Delhi.	As we use and reuse things it gives us some social engagement status.	This has really helped everybody throughout the food and beverage team and the organization as a whole just to think about what they are doing.	Some resorts are doing their part to address it even when governmental regulations and a general lack of awareness make that difficult.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	And in the House Rep. Thomas Massie R KY made a viral fool of himself by attacking former Secretary of State John Kerry after he tried to raise concerns about how climate change would harm national security.	Trumps recently installed EPA chief dismissed a study from his own department's scientists about the dangers of climate change and then admitted he never even read the study in the first place.	The administration and its officials regularly disregard the scientific consensus about the harms of climate change in order to justify rolling back regulations and trashing initiatives designed to make the world cleaner and safer.	It is a threat to America and to all of humanity.	True
After the fighting ended a stalemate remained as international mediation efforts were made to resolve their dispute.	The enmity between the two countries that occupy the Horn of Africa came after a border war fought between 1998 and 2000.	The two countries disputed their border in the scrubby and desolate plains of Badime.	But head activism has led to criticism from from world leaders and others who allege she is being manipulated.	She raged People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing we are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and the fairy tale of endless economic growth.	True
For Pruitt getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma.	HAZARD Ky. AP A coalition of left leaning states and environmental groups are vowing to fight the Trump administration's move to kill an Obama era effort to limit carbon emissions from coal fired power plants.	The Trump Administration's persistent and indefensible denial of climate change and their continued assault on actions essential to stemming its increasing devastation is reprehensible and I will use every available legal tool to fight their dangerous agenda said Schneiderman a Democrat.	The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants.	Closely aligned with the oil and gas industry in his home state Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man made emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change.	True
Bolling Williams who was invited to Pruitt's meeting said Pruitt listened to all of our concerns but he did not offer any solutions.	One week ago the local chapter of the NAACP said it invited Pruitt to a roundtable discussion on environmental justice which happened Wednesday morning.	The NAACP presented Pruitt with a list of demands including a call for an executive order that would include a greater commitment to communities like East Chicago.	Administrator Pruitt was working for environmental justice by meeting with the real residents affected by lead contamination and by committing to get results.	Pruitt skipped that event and instead invited a group to a meeting of his own at a local school that was shut down as a result of the lead contamination in the community.	True
It can be summed up in one word confusion.	Sometimes it appears to be a result of ineptitude other times it appears to be tactical.	It was the latest example of the bewilderment Trump has created about whether or not the worlds second biggest source of climate altering pollution plans to do anything about it.	Other history contradicts the idea that the United States signed onto an out of balance deal.	He announced an extreme position but hinted he was willing to negotiate.	False
The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed.	If Paris streets burned over a proposed25 cents per gallon climate change tax imagine the global conflagration over a 49 per gallon tax.	Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of deniers.	Why?	Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	True
Over lunch at a conference last week Flint staked out his opposition to the Obama administrations use of executive authority to regulate carbon dioxide emissions.	Asked where the line is between what critics said was the previous administrations federal overreach and attempting to stave off the worst of what the IPCC predicted Flint went quiet for a while.	In a surprise move Gov.	Last yearSens.	A former Trump transition team official he described himself as a sherpa for Interior Secretary Ryan Zinkes confirmation process.	True
One hardly knows where to begin in taking apart an argument that is literally filled with errors fallacies inconsistencies and non sequiturs.	The essay by Nathan Schneider appearing in the May 31 issue of America titled Trumps war on the environment is a war on the young and the unborn makes the incredible case that withdrawing from the Paris agreement constitutes a war on future generations tantamount to genocide.	Perhaps Mr. Schneider should consider what a war on the environment would actually look like.	Pouring toxic waste into rivers filling the air with noxious fumes polluting forests and open countrysidethese are signs of a war on the environment and sadly they can still be found in certain nations.	To judge a particular accord as contrary to the nations interests on the other hand is hardly a war on the environment.	True
With this report the Lung Association also calls out Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency EPA for ongoing threats to the nations air quality including steps to roll back or weaken enforcement of the Clean Air Act.	We still have a lot to do in this country to clean up air pollution said Lyndsay Moseley Alexander director of the Association's Healthy Air Campaign.	EPA administrator Scott Pruitt hastaken many steps to roll back or put in loopholes to the Clean Air Act Alexander said adding thattheassociation is concerned and we will continueto fight forhealthy air she said.	Forget the Golden State.	For year round particle pollution Fairbanks Alaska was the most polluted city.	True
As for the water it's Trump vs. the Delta smelt an endangered fish scientists argue can only be saved if the dammed waters are allowed to flow into the ocean instead of being used to irrigate the farms and homes of California residents.	It's hard not to think there's an element of spite in this rhetoric as wealthy and influential Californians led talk of secession following Trump's 2016 election victory.	While she has worked for the department since 2013 environmentalists accuse her of gutting protections for migratory birds and endangered species.	It's not a good week for the Delta smelt.	US President Donald Trump is taking California to task for the management of its forests and dams blaming red tape for the devastating forest fires and drought plaguing the bluest of blue states and threatening to withhold aid.	False
One of the biggest legal battles over climate change is now in limbo pending a decision from the Supreme Courts chief justice who last week took the odd step of halting the lawsuit to consider a stay.	Now the case is back at the Supreme Court and what happens next is unclear including whether the other justices on the bench will weigh in.	But last week the defendant the US government asked for a stay of the case arguing the costs of litigation would put an undue burden on it.	The local governments are citing nuisance statutes and seeking money from oil companies to pay for damages caused by climate change whereas the childrens case is trying to force the government to enact policies to curb greenhouse gas emissions.	The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate.	False
And the idea that you're signing up for some type of agenda I don't want to ... send a signal that that's what I'm doing because I'm not doing that DeSantis said .	Asked whether he thought climate change was a threat to Florida DeSantis said the issue was politicized but noted that he considers sea level rise a serious threat.	We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future?	We're going to do what works.	As one of Florida's leading environmental researchers Dr. Frazer understands the unique water issues facing our state and the actions we must take to solve them he said Monday.	False
The question is what are we going to do about it and at what cost?	pic.twitter.comixO6VhRhrO Rep. Ted Deutch April 10 2017 Thune told Fox News anchor Chris Wallace in a 2014 interview for example Well look climate change is occurring it's always occurring Chris.	What won't solve the problem is putting our heads in the Florida sand while streets and basements flood around us she said in a statement.	Thanks for this hearing.	Not that surprising except this was a Senate committee field hearing challenging the position shared by President Donald Trump and many Republicans in Congress that climate change isn't real.	False
Todays decision is a disappointing continuation of a historic pattern Other people get all the profits and the tribes get all the risk and harm said Jan Hasselman an Earthjustice attorney representing the tribe in an ongoing federal lawsuit through which Standing Rock and three other tribes still hope to shut down the pipeline.	Boasberg said he will hear arguments on the matter.	The tribe is among four that have challenged the pipeline in court over environmental fears that ETP says are unfounded.	The judge said the Corps also didnt adequately study how the pipeline might disproportionately affect the tribal community a concept known as environmental justice.	The Corps must simply connect the dots he said.	False
They say the president favours development over conservation.	Who is Brazil's new leader Jair Bolsonaro?	But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a dramatic fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes.	Far right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe.	The rainforest lost 9762 sq km 3769 sq miles of its vegetation between August 2018 and July 2019 Inpe says.	False
The Air Force denied Rio Linda Elvertas claim in a May 9 letter before the district sued in federal court on June 30.	Plaintiffs argued that as far back as 1984 McClellan had burn and burial pits trenches and unlined ponds and ditches contaminated with chemicals.	They knew or should have known that this harmful compound would reach groundwater pollute drinking supplies render drinking water unusuable and unsafe and threaten the public health and welfare stated the complaint which claims an underground storage tank likely held the chemical.	At contention is whether the cancer causing chemical hexavalent chromium or chromium 6 came from the base which was designated a federal Superfund site in 1987 for 326 contaminated sites identified for cleanup.	Plaintiffs argue that the chemicals have been found in groundwater under the base as high as 840 parts per billion six times higher than levels that decrease away from the air base.	False
Environmentalists were obviously outraged by Pruitts decision.	Environmentalists fought to keep the rule in place and Pruitt can expect legal challenges if EPA tries to repeal the ELG rule.	UWAG and others argued the rule violated the Clean Water Act and Administrative Procedures Act.	Pruitt was responding to a petition sent by the Utility Water Action Group UWAG urging the Trump administration to rescind its Effluent Limitations Guidelines for coal fired power plants.	To an unprecedented extent the Agency withheld fundamental information purporting to justify the Rule UWAG argued adding that included pages of the record that demonstrably were not entitled to confidential treatment.	False
Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because climate change is an issue that affects every other issue agriculture the economy including tourism.	A coalition of local environmental groups organized the march to the Arsht Center in Miami where this round of debates is being held with marchers sporting signs calling for a specific climate change debate and pushing for the Green New Deal.	This is something thats happening now and needs to be addressed now.	Just a few hours before the second round of 2020 Democratic presidential contenders are set to face off dozens of local activists in Miami Florida held an Underwater Climate Rally calling for more discussion about climate change at the second Democratic debate.	Melissa Baldwin co organizer of Miami Climate Month which organized the rally says from the moment she and her fellow organizers found out the first debate would be in Miami they wanted to put a spotlight on climate change because you cant come to Miami without talking about climate change.	False
Democratic Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon the amendments author said on Twitter on Thursday Despite dangerous decision unwillingness to act we can will fight back to combat The amendment passed 16 14.	In a diplomatic cable that Reuters obtained last month Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said U.S. diplomats should sidestep questions from foreign governments on how the United States plans re engage in the global Paris climate agreement.	L1N1KU0UP	The amendment passed even though the 2018 budget proposal that Trump a Republican introduced earlier this year eliminated support of any mechanism to finance climate change projects in developing countries and organizations.	The cable also said diplomats should make clear that the United States wants to help other countries use fossil fuels which have been linked to global warming.	False
Combined with drought insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality the op ed continues.	But theres been a change in fire behavior over the last century as the state and federal government began dousing the blazes.	Jerry Brown partnered with state lawmakers to introduce changes to the states policies.	California Democratic Gov.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	False
The resolution does not include a price tag but some Republicans predict it would cost in the trillions of dollars.	A news conference at the Capitol is set for Thursday the day they introduce the resolution.	Trump who has expressed doubts about climate change also is likely to oppose it.	She calls for a World War II scale mobilization that includes high quality education and health care clean air and water and safe affordable housing.	A joint resolution drafted by Ocasio Cortez and Markey sets a goal to meet 100 percent of the power demand in the United States through clean renewable and zero emission energy sources including dramatic increases in wind and solar power.	False
This is a challenge of epochal proportions he said Saturday.	Energy experts and those who advocate fighting climate change expressed doubts before the conference that it would amount to anything other than a PR opportunity for the companies to burnish their image without making meaningful changes.	The pope said meeting the energy needs of everyone on the planet must be done in ways that avoid creating environmental imbalances resulting in deterioration and pollution that is gravely harmful to our human family both now and in the future.	Francis said that modern society with its massive movement of information persons and things requires an immense supply of energy.	He said it was disturbing and a cause for real concern that the levels of carbon dioxide emissions and the concentrations of greenhouse gases remain high despite commitments taken in the 2015 Paris accord to fight global warming.	False
It's a problem you get with these very social animals that tend to for reasons we have never been clear on end up following either a sick leader onto the beach or end up getting lost as a group Dr Brownlow says.	We think that was because one of the females was having trouble giving birth and was in a lot distress he explains.	While the exact reasons remain unclear experts say many different factors could play a part.	It means that if one pilot whale encounters a problem then it can have an impact on the entire group.	This particular species seems to be very prone to that herd behaviour.	False
Were up against the wire and nobody no politician no agency no industry is stepping up to resolve the climate crisis Mike one of the protesters locked to a flower pot said in a statement.	The protesters were blocking a BNSF train carrying Bakken Crude Oil a highly volatile oil that caused a train to explode in Mosier Oregon last June.	Its time for the people to step up to resolve this crisis before we run out of time.	Our community and our planet are under attack yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate.	Protesters locked their arms into large sunflower pots and laid down on train tracks calling on Washington Governor Jay Inslee D to reject the proposed Vancouver Tesoro Savage Oil Terminal and all other proposed fossil fuel infrastructure in the State of Washington the group said in a press release.	False
Lately he has been tussling with New York Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio Cortez over the Green New Deal an ambitious piece of environmental legislation that seeks to dramatically overhaul Americas energy sector and economy in a bid to slash carbon output.	Greenpeace founder turned climate change skeptic Patrick Moore has reignited his feud with Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio Cortez calling her a pompous little twit and garden variety hypocrite in a barrage of tweets.	Moore began picking the Green New Deal apart in February ridiculing its promise to remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere.	The legislation has been ridiculed from all sides for its proposed abolition of air travel and fossil fuel powered vehicles as well as its estimated cost of over 50 trillion over twice the worth of the entire US economy.	After referring to AOC as a raving lunatic President Donald Trump said on Saturday that the deal is the new Democrat platform and I dont want to talk them out of it...I want them to embrace this plan.	False
But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Like this story?	Viewers called him out for rambling incoherent answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry.	But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye.	Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding commented another.	False
The recent personnel shake up across the federal government doesnt bode well for the fight against climate change either.	And some government research grant applications faced extra scrutiny and rejection for mentioning the double C word.	President Trump wants the United States to back out of the Paris climate agreement and the EPA is working to undo the main policy for restricting greenhouse gases the Clean Power Plan.	Now it looks like were condemned to repeat it.	Its not just rhetoric.	False
Though ultimately unsuccessful those efforts illustrated a push to establish stability amid unsettling crisis a goal Marshall shared.	The socialist sobriquet stokes ideological fires but douses historical understanding.	When massive problems develop cross jurisdictional lines and are associated with market failures big government responses can seem like the only possible solution.	TheGreen New Dealand its proponents aim to tackle the intertwined issues of social and environmental justice in our age of anthropogenic climate change.	One prominent exampleBob Marshalls argument for nationalizing forests during the 1930sreveals how socialist solutions emerge from specific contexts and problems not ideological bunkers.	False
This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you me and the whole world.	Meet the trees get to know their superpowers and learn how scientists are trying to protect them.	And so what happens to these forests truly affects all life on Earth.	We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster not just locally but globally.	False
I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice.	I know that we have to deal with this crisis.	Steyer also called on Mayor Pete Buttigieg another Democrat presidential hopeful to put more emphasis on climate change saying the people in his generation understand that this is a crisis that we have to go on right now and reinvent America.	Democrat presidential candidate and billionaire Tom Steyer once again vowed to declare a state of emergency over the climate crisis America faces during the sixth Democrat presidential debate at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles California.	I believe I am the only person here who will say unequivocally this is my number one priority Steyer continued.	False
Though not as controversial or ethically compromised as PruittWheeler is opposed by a number of environmental groups who sharply criticize the president's aggressive efforts to undo Obama era rules they say are designed to protect the environment and address climate change.	While calling Wheeler certainly qualified for this position Collins said some of the policies he has proposed as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	It's a sad day for public health and the EPA but missionaccomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries Ken Cook president of the Environmental Working Group said in a statement following the vote.	As you can see we're continuing the president's agenda post haste.	And his agency finalizedrevisions to a 2015 Obama era rule regulating thedisposal of coal ashthat gives states and utilities what he called much needed flexibility to manage their waste.	False
He says times are tough for dairy farmers so this gives him a new stream of revenue.	So here's one solution to the problem Dairy farmers in Massachusetts are using food waste to create electricity.	It's an industrial strength grinder that gobbles up all the scraps of food the store can't sell explains Karen Franczyk who is the sustainability program manager for Whole Foods' North Atlantic region.	This turns a big generator which is creating one megawatt of electricity continuously Melnik says enough to power more than just his farm.	which has installed a Grind2Energy system.	False
Trumpcampaigned on a promise to withdraw the U.S.from the accord saying it would lead to higher energy prices and hurt domesticbusinesses from being able to compete globally.	California Gov.	Withdrawal from the agreement marks a critical step in unraveling former President Obamas destructive legacy Needham said.	We're on the field ready for battle and while our president may be AWOL in the battle against climate change we're not.	Were moving forward.	False
The controversy reemerged after the first round of Democratic debates last week.	I cannot rule out any other debate that would highlight both the necessity of defeating the climate crisis and calling for the candidates to step up to the plate Inslee said in an interview with Mother Jones.	In April climate activistslaunched a grassroots campaign demanding that one of the debates be dedicated to climate they noted that presidential debate moderators had a long history of giving short shrift to the issue.	Climate received 15 minutes of discussion over two nights but the largely superficial discussion of the issue only seemed to strengthen the activists case as key policy proposals such as the Green New Deal and 100 percent renewable energy mandates were virtually ignored.	ORourkes campaign did not respond to a request for comment in time for publication to confirm Youth Climate Strikes tweet Booker supports more climate change discussion but the campaign toldMother Jones that the decision is in the hands of the DNC.	False
Every Earth Day we are treated to theatrical images of marches featuring unhinged activists demanding action on a range of environmental issues.	Only the sacrifices made by others will make a difference.	That gap between the Lefts loud talk and their unwillingness to make personal sacrifices is not an accident.	In a video that was shared widely including by celebrities such as James Corden the British writer argues that the only way to help the environment is to change the big structural political economic stuff.	Why progressives refuse to live by their own Earth Day bluster George Monbiot recently expressed a carefully calibrated environmental message that allows people on the environmental left to feel self righteous without making any real sacrifice.	False
One area where the Texan came down strong No limits on the meat industry despite calls from the United Nations for people to change their diet to avoid more damage to global land use.	He said the government should help people move but avoided answering a question from the moderator Don Lemon about whether some areas were simply too risky for human habitation.	In response to a question from Priya Subberwal a New York University student Mr. ORourke made clear that he prefers cap and trade over a straight tax on carbon.	I reject any notion that we have to radically or fundamentally change how we eat or what we eat I think we just have to be more responsible in the way that we do it and the best way to do that is to allow the market to respond by setting a price on carbon he said.	Mr. ORourke was less clear about whether he believes people in his home state of Texas should be prevented from living in vulnerable flood areas.	False
Since they lost seats in the Senate Democrats emphasized key state level disputes like the fight between California and the EPA over fuel economy standards.	At a few points the hearing was interrupted by protesters and chants of shut down Wheeler not the EPA.	I would not call it the greatest crisis no sir Wheeler responded.	I consider it to be an issue that has to be addressed globally.	Some Republicans raised concerns about climate change as well.	False
Strike organizers have a list of demands that includes respect of indigenous land sustainable agriculture protecting biodiversity environmental justice and a just transition away from fossil fuels and towards renewable energy said 17 year old Baltimore resident and organizer Nadia Nazar.	But his idea of what that means is very different than the activists' vision.	Graves got immediate push back from the young activists including 17 year old Jamie Margolin from Seattle who asked how Graves will respond to questions from his children and grandchildren about whether he did enough to address climate change.	There have been similar student events in the past year.	I'm bothered by the lack of movement to make meaningful advances to solve the climate crisis says Lufrano Jardine.	False
Questions posed to candidates on Wednesday varied and not all were asked about public land and conservation.	During CNNs marathon town hall on climate change Wednesday candidates vowed to end oil gas and coal leasing on federal land as part of a shared goal to decarbonizing the economy and prevent catastrophic warming.	We need to connect the dots Castro said Wednesday.	Her policy vision unveiled in April includes overturning Trumps land rollbacks a moratorium on oil and gas leases on federal land and recruiting 10000 youth and veterans for a 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps.	Ive connected the dots of actually preserving more of our lands both for the benefit of wildlife and for our benefit to combat climate change.	False
One found that avoiding meat and dairy products was the single biggest way to reduce an individuals environmental impact on the planet.	This joint experiment marks a significant first step toward achieving our vision to ensure food security for generations to come while preserving our natural resources.	The development marks a further step forward for a nascent industry that aims to provide people with real meat without the environmental impact and welfare problems of intensive livestock production.	We can potentially provide a powerful solution to produce the food closer to the population needing it at the exact and right time it is needed.	The Israeli food technology startup Aleph Farms grew the meat on the International Space Station 248 miles 399 km away from any natural resources.	False
The meeting was just the latest in a series of public moves the pope has made against traditional forms of electricity production.	Energy and investment executives who met with Pope Francis earlier in June stood mostly in agreement that a tax on carbon emissions is the best path forward to combating climate change.	That is more than 21000 in income loss per family a portion of the letter read.	Ernest Moniz who served as an energy secretary under the Obama administration took part in the summit and said one of the areas of focus was carbon pricing to create market incentives for the transition to a low carbon system.	Pope Francishosted a two day summit at the Vatican on June 8 and 9 inviting key players in the oil and gas industry for a back and forth discussion on climate change.	False
Anyway what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning.	But look I dont want to debate global warming because a its boring to me b you get screamed at by people who act like we have seconds to act before the world ends and c you or at least I also get screamed at by people who insist its all a complete hoax.	Etc.	not believing in science because recent hurricanes have been bad and climate change is causing it and blah blah blah.	People who want to ban golden rice or other GMOs people who deny that a fetus is a whole human people who insist fetal pain is a myth people who get outraged by claims that say men cant get pregnant.	False
I think some kind of major flood happened all over the world and it left an indelible imprint on the collective memory of mankind that got preserved in these stories.	In the Epic of Gilgamesh waters so overwhelm the mortals that the gods grow frightened too Gillis wrote In Indias version Lord Vishnu warns a man to take refuge in a boat carrying seeds.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Models can be useful tools to test complex climate interactions but they are still projections not facts.	I dont think the biblical deluge is just a fairy tale Terence Hughes a retired glaciologist told Gillis.	False
She appeared to contradict herself a few sentences later telling the audience that the intent is really to eliminate the oil industrys license to operate.	Amrons admission will likely create challenges forthe citys appeal which is slated to begin in front of the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals soon.	Manufacturers and conservative groups worry trial attorneys are behind the spat of climate litigation.	Neither Amron nor New York Citys Law Department have responded to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for an explanation about the lawsuit is designed to hammer the oil industry or for mitigation purposes.	Andreally what were trying to do is affect the bottom line the financial equation for the use of fossil fuels she said.	False
The ad was released on Oct. 30 and immediatelynational environmental groups that generally align with Democrats called foul underscoring their support of Curbelos Democratic challenger Debbie Mucarsel Powell.	Curbelo is one of thefounders of the Climate Solutions Caucus a bipartisangroup in Congress ostensibly committedto fighting global warming but restricted in practice by the reliance ofits 45 Republicanmembers on support from oil and gas firms.	While he broke ranks this summer to express his support for a carbon tax as a possible way to combat climate change more than 30 of Curbelos Republican colleagues on the caucus supported a symbolic measure that disavowed a carbon tax.	Last December he joined caucus members in a budget vote that would have openedup 1.5 million acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil and gas drillingMother Jonesreported at the time.	In one of South Floridascongressional districts the party machine swept in to prop up a two term incumbent by painting his opponent as a puppet of fossil fuel interests and dirty coal money.	False
It was only about past events.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	It likely stems from an asteroid impact that rocked the Northern Hemisphere and led to the Younger Dryas climate event.	Theres no shortage of ideas about how this happens but its not quite clear how they all fit together.	False
They've got to get an answer to us by Feb. 26 or face the consequences warns Ornstein.	Environmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi this past December.	J. Scott ApplewhiteAP hide caption toggle caption J. Scott ApplewhiteAP Environmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi this past December.	J. Scott ApplewhiteAP For a nonbinding resolution with an uncertain future the Green New Deal Green New Deal FINAL is getting a lot of attention along with a decidedly mixed reaction.	They need to do a whole lot more homework and much more research and analysis before we can ever even really engage in this discussion says Colin Woodall senior vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association.	False
Earlier this year TrumptappedHapper to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting adversarial scientific peer review of climate science part of the administrations relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis.	The CO2 Coalition a right wing think tank that Happer co founded and that argues Earth benefits from humans pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere confirmedhis upcoming resignation in a Tuesday post to its website and praised him for his efforts.	While your proposed review of alarmist analyses and projections has been delayed we believe your work in calling attention to the problem of unscientific climate alarmism has reduced the chances of the dramatic increases in energy prices that would arise from the banning of fossil fuels that some have proposed Patrick Moore and Caleb Rossiter two representatives of the CO2 Coalition wrote in a joint statement.	The CO2 Coalition is one of several think tanks that peddle misinformation about climate change and receive funding from the Mercer familythe billionaire megadonors whogave more than 15 million to Trumps 2016 campaign.	News of Happers departure comes one day after the resignation of his boss national security adviser John Bolton.	False
That never materialized.	Asked about the global warming meeting during a photo op with Merkel the president said 'Were having it in a little while.'	Trump started the morning behind schedule.	His meeting with Merkel was delayed about two hours.	He had no reply to a journalist who informed him that it was already underway.	False
Do you know what?	But before you ring up your grandchildren and warnthem to cancel the marquee theyve booked for their 100th birthday celebrations perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothmans cheery prediction.	Even you.	However he says that by 2100 the world may have tipped into unknown territory.	Second Rothman appears to have given himself so much margin for error as to render his doomsday projection meaningless.	False
A link to a number of papers since 2015 showing dramatic climate change globally and in particular with extremes at the poles is still controversial to some.	It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self reinforcing cycle takes over.	Even as some scientists are still looking at what happened during the second half of the 20th century at a scale of change over decades others are beginning to address the significant acceleration of changes observed year by year.	Under this scenario meeting a 2C limit would be harder than anticipated.	Recently a policy briefing from the world leading Woods Hole Research Center has moved our understanding of this risk further through a clearly written summary.	False
We can debate the issues we can have different viewpointsbut we should all be able to objectively examine the data and look at the evidence ... Now is not the time to turn a blind eye to what science is telling us that climate change and other factors are influencing the health of this estuary ...	Analysis Is the war on coal really over?	It informs decision makers.	Scientific evidenceand input iscrucial to policy efforts.	So there is no reason for it to have to be this way.	False
Then he said decide and history will judge the decisions.	Weeks later Mr. Trump pulled out of the agreement.	First up the paper featured more odd respect for religion from its colorful left wing reporter Jason Horowitz in Pope in the Air Puts Foot Down on Climate Change Denial and DACA Reversal.	But in Washington where science is increasingly political the fact that oceans and atmosphere are warming and that the heat is propelling storms into superstorms has become as sensitive as talking about gun control in the wake of a mass shooting.	When the Times doesnt challenge a pro life message better read closely.	False
While the bill has little chance of passing it is intended to spark a debate over carbon pricing as the Democratic Party prepares to take over the lower chamber of Congress.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Much like the new bipartisan bill Curbelos was doomed to fail from the beginning and he endured attack ads from the right for even introducing it.	RELATED A Growing Number Of Democrats Are Signing On To Ocasio Cortezs Green New Deal Republicans Fitzpatrick and Rooney both members of the Climate Solutions Caucus survived their re elections and both will continue to work with Democrats on various climate change bills in the next legislative session.	False
Its pure unadulterated selfishness.	Trump and Pruitt and others of their ilk might have greed and corruption as motives.	And there you have it.	Get real.	The equation that is most dangerous according to Jeffrey Kluger of Time is n1 otherwise stated as If it matters to me it counts.	False
We would work it out.	No.	They make surrounding communities less healthy and less safe.	Its highly explosive.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	False
So whats actually in it?	The deal shall ensure a just transition for all workers low income communities communities of color indigenous communities rural and urban communities and the front line communities most affected by climate change pollution and other environmental harm including by ensuring that local implementation of the transition is led from the community level.	Editors Note This post has been updated with grammatical fixes.	Its scope and mandate for legislative authority amounts to a radical grant of power to Washington over Americans lives homes businesses travel banking and more.	Early on under Jurisdiction the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national industrial economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality.	False
Diplomats from rich nations emerging giants and the world's poorest countries each for their own reasons found fault with a draft agreement put forward by host Chile in a botched attempt to strike common ground.	I have never seen such a disconnect between what the science requires and the people of the world demand versus what the climate negotiations are delivering Alden Meyer strategy and policy director at the Union of Concerned Scientists told AFP.	The difference between the youth on the streets and the negotiations is that the youth on the streets are acting with urgency she told AFP.	Faced with fire alarm warnings from science deadly extreme weather made worse by climate change and weekly strikes by millions of young people negotiations in Madrid were under pressure to send a clear signal that governments were willing to double down in tackling the crisis.	Veteran observers of UN climate talks were stunned by the state of play nearly 24 hours after the negotiations had been due to close.	False
The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed.	If Paris streets burned over a proposed25 cents per gallon climate change tax imagine the global conflagration over a 49 per gallon tax.	Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of deniers.	Why?	Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	False
Justin Haskins Jhaskins is executive editor of The Heartland Institute and the co founder of StoppingSocialism.com.	However the cause of this increase is debated and there is low confidence in attribution of changes in tropical cyclone activity to human influence.	This is total nonsense.	Either way you should stick to what the best available science says not the fear mongering of anti conservative zealots.	As Roy Spencer Ph.D. an acclaimed climate scientist who previously worked for NASA recently stated The fact that there has been no long term change in global hurricane activity and even a 50 percent decrease in U.S. landfalling major hurricanes over the last 80 years means no one is complicit in these storms.	False
