Meanwhile our ruling class continues to fly to climate change summits on private jets own multiple CO2 emitting homes and advocate for unrestricted trade with pollution world champ China.	An aging populace with fewer young people producing tax revenue means a crisis for public services and a shrinking economy.	Progressive political elites have decided that in order to save the environment ordinary citizens must submit to radical lifestyle changes while those same elites fly around the world on private jets and enrich themselves from trade with China the worlds biggest polluter.	Looks like China despite its pollution does have something to offer the environmental movement the one child policy!	Cannibalism for the climate thats how far theyve gone!	False
Third to invest and update industry and infrastructure.	Second to guarantee millions of good high wage jobs and economic security.	First to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions while providing quality jobs for all.	Fourth to secure healthy food and a livable climate for everyone.	Since 1990 the country has achieved a 38 percent decrease in carbon dioxide emissions and has reduced its annual emissions by more than 43 percent this despite considerable economic growth.	True
The Trump administration has held the biggest lease sale of oil and gas in US history.	People need jobs the Gulf Coast states need revenue and Americans do not want to be dependent on foreign oil.	US crude oil output has grown by more than 20 percent since mid 2016.	The Center for American Progress a left leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement saying in a statement that offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources.	Trump is selling off our oceans and selling out coastal communities and marine life to the oil industry said Kristen Monsell oceans program legal director at the Center for Biological Diversity.	True
They call for a bold and drastic change in economic growth to slash greenhouse gas emissions which research shows contributes to climate change.	The crisis touches every aspect of our lives.	The world must wake up.	Thats why we need a to fundamentally transform our society Markey added.	Biologists ecologists more the Massachusetts Democrat said in a Nov. 6 tweet.	False
Were going down while we have our record breaking oil and gas production.	Contributing to the overall increase were the growing U.S. economy a cold start to the year that required additional energy for heating and the limited progress made in developing decarbonization strategies the analysis found.	Were addressing the issue.	is still issuing permits for oil companies according to Bloomberg.	Former Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke who resigned Jan. 2 under a cloud of ethics scandals told the National Petroleum Council last month that the administrations regulatory philosophy is to partner with the fossil fuel sector which he said was at the leading edge of technology.	True
President Trump says hes pulling out of the Paris climate agreement.	He then proceeds to chronicle the negative effects of pollution in the United States.	It deals specifically with reducing greenhouse gas emissions particularly carbon dioxide CO2 with the stated objective of combatting global warming.	My message to you Mr. President is that as a public servant and especially as a president your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people Schwarzenegger begins.	But this has nothing to do with the Paris climate accord.	False
It declares climate change a national emergency envisions building new solar wind and geothermal power sources across the country and commits 200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality.	He is bestowing that same name upon his new plan which calls for the United States to eliminate fossil fuel use by 2050.	WASHINGTON Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a 16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet warming greenhouse gases.	Mr. Inslees absence could create an opening for another presidential aspirant to seize the mantle of climate candidate.	False
California the sixth largest economy in the world is in stark opposition to Trumps administration.	California is once again showing Washington DC and the rest of the world that fighting climate and air pollution is the right thing for our health economy and future said Fred Krupp president of the Environmental Defense Fund.	The cap and trade program established in 2006 under then governor Arnold Schwarzenegger sets a limit on emissions and requires polluters to either reduce their output or purchase permits from those who have.	Thats what good government looks like.	As the limit steadily becomes stricter it nudges businesses to take the more financially attractive option of cutting their pollution.	True
California Gov.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Its bad and how we counteract it is with a climate summit with normal people respecting the truth and communicating that with other normal people and combating the President of the United States in what are lies distortions and quite frankly bizarre behavior.	Browns criticism of Trump appears to have fallen on deaf ears at the White House as the administration announced on Tuesday that it was rolling back an Obama era rule meant to curb climate changing pollution and easing restrictions on energy companies that allow huge volumes of natural gas to escape after drilling it from U.S. lands.	But there is perhaps no area where California has been more combative against the White House agenda than the environment.	False
Technology could help here too.	It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market but The Brando proves it is possible says Prof Graham Miller who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey.	Eco tourism is a growing trend that resorts are seeking to exploit around the world as people seek to make more responsible choices in the face of climate change.	Formerly owned by Hollywood legend Marlon Brando who was keen that it should become an ecological haven it has now developed in to a hideaway for the rich and famous seeking conscience soothing holidays that do less harm to the planet.	The team's eventual aim is to capture the atoll's whole ecosystem from molecule upwards so it can help local governments and communities evaluate future risks and make better decisions.	False
Some of the biggest items on its agenda include withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement expanding drilling on federal lands and watering down rules ranging from limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants to fuel efficiency in cars and trucks.	We need to know what kind of impact this corporate favoritism is having on average Americans' health and quality of life.	President Donald Trump set in motion a vast rollback of energy climate and environmental regulations during his first two years in office.	Within the first few months of the year incoming committee chairs intend to hold a series of hearings to pick apart Trump's energy and environmental policies and what role industry insiders played in crafting them.	The Trump administration has spent two years giving away the store to fossil fuel companies and Republicans in Congress cheered every step of the way says Grijalva.	True
Were a big region in terms of geography.	There are about 1000 people in Region 5 and it has the most industrial regions of all of the EPA the employee who asked not to be named for fear of reprisal told HuffPost.	Mikulka the EPA employees union president said shuttering Region 5 would be an effective way to hobble an agency whose mission is largely at odds with the Trump administrations deregulation orientedanti climate protection stance.	How are they going to get there?	My question is Why us?	False
Lets take a look at how they intend to use it.	Gun control is perhaps the most widely known and publicized issue of the 2019 election.	Senate Bill No.	Section G of House Bill No.	The bill reads in calendar year 2036 and every calendar year thereafter 100 percent of the electricity sold by a retail electric supplier is required to be generated from clean energy resources.	False
This type of work necessarily contains uncertainties regarding the way the Earth's climate will respond in future and how quickly societies can move away from fossil fuel use.	The aim of the Paris deal was holding the increase in global average temperature to well below 2C above pre industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit temperature increase to 1.5C.	To be honest it wasn't thought to be the policy priority at the time.	On Twitter one of the authors of that report Prof Michael Mann said the latest research in Nature Geoscience doesn't account for the pre industrial baseline issue we examined.	But the ambition of Paris caught a lot of people by surprise.	True
If the human race wants a future that looks like utopia and not dystopia it needs to address such concerns Lagarde said predicting that in 50 years time oil will be a secondary commodity since green energy will have moved into prominence.	In June President Donald Trump announced the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accord arguing that it was a deeply flawed document that put American workers at an economic disadvantage.	Ms. Lagarde is no stranger to exaggerated predictions having proposed in 2016 that a Brexit victory would lead to 500000 job losses while suggesting that Brexit voters are narrow minded and calling for a united Europe.	Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today the study found but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwide three times more deaths than from AIDS tuberculosis and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence.	As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of carbon footprints and preaching renewable energy they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world.	False
More President Trump on dire economic forecast of climate change report 'I don't believe it' More Once Democrats take charge of the House addressing climate change will become top priority again	In a Roosevelt Room ceremony with farmers and lawmakers at the time Trump called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation.	It isnt just a coincidence that this is no longer the reality in our country.	The 2015 definition crafted under President Barack Obama would narrow considerably under Trump a move that Wheeler told reporters wouldmake it clearer and easier to understand ... that will result in significant cost savings protect the nation's navigable waterways and reduce barriers to important economic and environmental projects.	waterways and pose far reaching effects on the safety of the nation's tap water for more than 100 million Americans.	False
This is all in the U.S. Constitution Thats what enables innovation and if our country stops innovating it will not be able to compete worldwide.	And my interpretationof the expression useful arts is engineering.	In those days it would be architecture city planning designing of the drainage systems sewage systems and communications systems.	In an interview on MSNBCs AM Joy Nye said that it explicitly states in the Constitution that the U.S. government must promote the progress of science and useful arts something the Trump administration isnt even close to upholding.	It is inherently political like everything else Its in the U.S. Constitution Article 1 Section 8 to promote the progress of science and useful arts.	False
We demand climate action that addresses historic injustices by pricing pollution and investing in solutions that improve economic and environmental conditions in front line communities.	Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people.	The Peoples Climate Movement takes to the streets on Saturday April 29th shedding light on the intertwined destinies of clean energy and employment in the United States and around the world.	Our policy developed in partnership with mainstream environmental groups labor unions public health organizations and other stakeholders represents some of the best of what a unified national resistance could create Comprehensive equitable action against the biggest existential threat of our generation climate change.	Our communities to quote environmental justice advocate Majora Carter are the canaries in the coal mine We have already begun to experience climate disruption by virtue of where we live and work and we have always been on the front lines of pollution.	False
When the air we breathe and the water we drink are imminently threatened so that corporations can make more money life liberty and the pursuit of happiness are on the line.	Robert A. Franek is a part of Politicus Policy Discussion in which writers draw connections between real lives and public policy.	Securing the long term future of civil rights for LGBT people womens access to heath care and the flourishing of our environment that we may all enjoy life liberty and the pursuit of happiness rests not only on getting to the bottom of the Trump Russia scandal and draining the swamp in his administration along with the scandal covering right denying profit seeking in Congress but also on preventing the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court.	Without a habitable environment that is safe from toxic waste harmful chemicals and dangerous carbon dioxide emissions leading to an ever warming planet how can anyone be assured of life liberty and the pursuit of happiness?	Amid the billowing smoke of the Trump Russia scandal both Donald Trump and the Republicans in Congress have found time to further their agenda of stripping the civil rights away from LGBT people taking healthcare away from women and assuring that scientific data be kept away from the Environmental Protection Agency.	False
The Great Collapse The collapse of ecosystems economies and our way of life.	First it was global warming andor global cooling.	They ask each of us to do what it takes to avoid collapsing or descending into chaos.	What did his team of global namers come up with?	He said that the new name needs to appeal to people who are unscientific to help them understand the severity of the problem and inspire them to make more eco friendly life choices and pro climate choices at the ballot box.	True
Department of Homeland Security.	We're building a wall between here and Mexico.'	'It's time to stop Trump's hateful bombast and his executive overreach here in San Diego before it goes any further.	He's a Mexican.	At the time he told CNN'We are building a wall.	True
The projectcould harm with the regions economy potentially creating problems fora nearbyU.S.	The base pump 200 million a year into the region and employs over 2600 people.	We want to be the ones to make the decisions on how were going to contribute.	They dont want their areas turned into industrialized zones.	Andrew Cuomos support.	False
Its the biggest threat of all.	Climate change is a multiplier.	Theres no denying the magnitude of the water crisis in the U.S. and abroad.	Climate change is a multiplier Caldas said.	Pruitt said that it wasnt a lack of money that was plaguing the program but rather poor leadership and poor focus on the part of the Obama administration.	False
Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project the group that conducted the papers report was also involved in an investigation last November targeting Exxons climate change research.	For the two decades following the Exxon Valdez disaster the company worked quietly to safeguard its operations and infrastructure against steadily rising sea levels and thawing permafrost The LA Times wrote.	Wassermanwrote an op edin January for the California paper fleshing out specifics about the probes into Exxons climate research.	TheFund has made grants to the Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project and InsideClimate News but hasno involvement in articles they produce the papers disclosure notes.	RFF has single handedly financially propped up the anti Exxon campaign.	True
Launched in 1997 and now finally running low on fuel Cassini is drawing ever closer to its demise.	A press conference viewer asking questions of the scientists via Twitter asked if NASA was talking about bacteria or algae or giant squids.	While questions remain Thursdays news represents an important advance in assessing the habitability of Enceladus Woods Hole Oceanographic Institutions Jeffrey Seewald wrote in a companion article.	A liquid ocean exists beneath the icy surface of Enceladus which is barely 300 miles 500 kilometers across.	A spacecraft under development called the Europa Clipper to launch sometime in the 2020s could shed more light on the matter.	False
In a statement by White House deputy press secretary Lindsey Walters the Trump administration downplayed the report saying it is largely based on the most extreme scenario which contradicts long established trends by assuming that despite strong economic growth that would increase greenhouse gas emissions there would be limited technology and innovation and a rapidly expanding population.	CNN The new government report on climate change which the Trump administration released quietly a day after Thanksgiving and two days after President Donald Trump tweeted skeptically about the existence of climate change warns that the drastic human effects on the climate could cause thousands of Americans to die and cost the US economy hundreds of billions of dollars.	The Trump administration chose to speed up release of the new report which is required by law putting it out on Black Friday instead of in December.	Brutal and Extended Cold Blast could shatter ALL RECORDS Whatever happened to Global Warming?	That's up from 2010 when Gallup first asked it and only a third of Americans thought global warming would impact them.	True
Once a vague term for clean energy stimulus the Green New Deal re emergedin the political discourse in mid 2018.	A cadre of left wing Democratic candidates began using it to describe plans to spend trillions of dollars on a national industrial strategy to zero out fossil fuel emissions and power the country with 100 percent renewables in a decade.	are expected to unveil this week does just that calling on the nation to promote the international exchange of technology expertise products funding and services with the aim to reclaim U.S. leadership on climate change to help other countries achieve a Green New Deal.	We should be open to the fact that wealth transfer schemes suggested in the radical policies like the Green New Deal may not be the best path said Shimkus who less than a decade ago deployed Bible verses to dismiss the realities of climate science.	After failing to persuade House Democratic leaders to establish a select committee on a Green New Deal she began work on a sweeping new resolution outlining a transformative policy to guarantee high wage clean energy jobs to millions of Americans and upgrade the nations crumbling infrastructure to withstand already unavoidable extreme weather and sea level rise.	False
Bahram Fazeli director of research and policy for Communities for a Better Environment a California focused environmental justice group said Harris record on the environment was decent.	Republican President Donald Trump has rolled back U.S. climate change rules he views as damaging to the economy and announced plans to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement an international accord to limit global warming.	She also reportedly launched an investigation in 2016 into whether Exxon Mobil lied to the public and shareholders about the risks of climate change though her office never confirmed the probe.	Her biggest environmental victory according to green groups came in 2016 when a grand jury indicted Plains All American Pipeline on criminal charges related to a 2015 oil spill off the coast of Santa Barbara.	Reuters U.S. presidential hopeful Kamala Harris campaign is finalizing a plan to tackle climate change that will center on cracking down on fossil fuel companies and protecting poor neighborhoods from the worst impacts of global warming according to two sources familiar with the matter.	True
dire economic forecast climate change dont believe2118152002 Professor Happer who has not published any research on climate change in a reputable science journal has been celebrated for many years by climate change contrarians and deniers around the world.	He was formerly a trustee of the George C Marshall Institute which received funding from ExxonMobil and other companies to spread doubt inside and outside the United States about the role of fossil fuels in climate change.	In July 2014 Professor Happer caused controversy during an interview on CNBC television climate expert demonization of carbon dio200107 in the United States when he claimed that the demonisation of carbon dioxide is just like the demonisation of the poor Jews under Hitler.	Mr Ebell who has no expertise whatsoever in climate science or any kind of science for that matter was a member of Donald Trumps presidential transition team news2016dec12donald trump environment climate change skeptics and diverted the focus of the Environmental Protection Agency towards weakening and removing policies that limit pollution by companies including President Obamas Clean Power Plan.	A recent leak of the Coalitons tax filing showed that its largest donors are conservative groups such as the Mercer Family Foundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation which have a long track record of funding climate change denial.	False
And so around the worldexcept in Trudeaus Canadanations are once again turning back to inexpensive coal rather than pouring more money into costly renewables and coal plants are being built at five times the rate that old plants are being decommissioned.	With very few exceptions governments all over the world have fallen into the trap of paying renewable energy scammers on the basis that it is necessary at least politically to be seen to be doing something about climate change Sloan writes before providing readers with an avalanche of economic data to back up her assertion.	The populist backlash a revulsion at top down governments laden with jet setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses has swept America with Trumps election Great Britain with Brexit much of Europe and Australia.	According to the analyst popular opinion against German Chancellor Angela Merkels Energiewende energy transition policies which had doubled electricity prices played no small part in Merkels terrible showing in last months national elections.	The current state of affairs has not only undermined Germanys climate policy but also jeopardizes Germanys international reputation as a climate leader Solomon asserts.	True
That move gives Californians access to unemployment assistance food aid and legal and mental health counseling and makes federal financial assistance available to cities and counties that will have to repair billions of dollars worth of infrastructure damage.	It also allows federal agencies to help battle the 17 major fires burning throughout the state including what is now known as the 'Carr fire' which is just 40 per cent contained and has incinerated more than 1000 homes.	President Donald Trump tweeted Sunday that a series of deadly wildfires hitting California are 'being magnified made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized.'	Trump complained that the water is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean and called for clearing forests as a means of stopping fires from spreading.	But the president's claim about water drew a combination of laughing and head scratching on Sunday although years of drought may be one factor in the fires' quick spread.	False
Its critical to keep the dollars at home create the jobs locally instead of sending the money overseas and creating jobs in foreign places he said.	Why do we want to let someone start drilling for more oil when we need to be putting money into resources for green economy and green fuel said Jim Wilson a 71 year old retired mail carrier from Placerville outside Sacramento.	SACRAMENTO Calif.	Drillers could find ways around state and local restrictions such as pumping oil directly onto ships for transport but the process is expensive and may not be profitable if oil prices remain relatively low.	A separate letter from the California Coastal Commission warned that an oil spill would devastate the states tourism economy and coastal beauty.	True
Thats equivalent to a gas tax as high as 1.70 per gallon in 2030 to nearly 19 per gallon at the end of the century.	The report calls for societal changes that are unprecedented in terms of scale in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius the stretch goal of the Paris accord.	While the price of carbon is central to prompt mitigation pathways compatible with 1.5 degree Celsius consistent pathways a complementary mix of stringent policies is required reads the IPCCs report.	California and many European countries have policies to price carbon dioxide emissions and mandate green energy including cap and trade systems and carbon taxes.	The IPCCs report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December.	True
the former secretary of state asked.	So how do you get a bachelor of arts in science?	Why would he have to have a secret analysis of climate change?	Massie asked.	It sounds like youre questioning the credentials of the presidents advisers but I dont think we should question your credentials today.	False
Democrats and conservatives alike say they can help President Donald Trump cut corporate taxes and put money in the pockets of American taxpayers but it will come at a price penalizing coal miners and fossil fuel interests for contributing to global warming.	That would be a hard pill for Trump to swallow given his pledge to revive the coal industry and put miners back to work.	Their plans would essentially transfer money from greenhouse gas polluters to individual and corporate taxpayers.	The goal of a carbon tax is to reduce the use of goods and services that produce greenhouse gas emissions and to convince companies to reduce their emissions.	A pair of Democratic senators and the bipartisan Climate Leadership Council aim to make a fee on carbon emissions part of tax reform.	True
Experts say that climate change in the region is exacerbating and sometimes causing a miasma of other problems including crop failures and povertyThe Guardian reported in October.	People from all over the world are being forced to migrate because the climate crisis is affecting their livelihood.	The collapse in coffee bean prices has made growing it less profitable forcing migrants to hit the road.	Migrants are fleeing violent corrupt countries with poor economies but some environmentalists and journalists claim global warming is also to blame.	The Guardian also noted that federal data showed a surge in outward migration from western Honduras a prime coffee producing area.	True
We are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	Entire ecosystems are collapsing.	Trump has nixed dozens of Obama administration environmental regulations calling them deadly to the economy much to the outrage of climate activists.	A faction among the Democrats has since proposed a Green New Deal that would eliminate carbon emissions altogether and reorder the US economy entirely warning that otherwise the world would end in 12 years.	While Thunberg was giving a fiery speech at the UNGA Climate Action Summit Trump was speaking at an event about religious freedom.	True
Because when America prospers the world is safer.	1 oil and gas producer in the world he said at a Dec. 11 briefing to announce a proposed rollback of Obama era clean water rules.	The next secretary should respect public desire for strong environmental standards and an end to corporate favoritism.	He told Bloomberg that Trump is great to work for despite occasional calls at 2 a.m. and that if you do your job he supports you.	For all his feigned swagger Ryan Zinke lacked the courage or integrity to face accountability skipping town as soon as he faced scrutiny Evers said.	False
The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obamas legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants.	Appearing at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Pruitt said The EPA and no federal agency should ever use its authority to say to you we are going to declare war on any sector of our economy.	Closely tied to the oil and gas industry in his home state Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man man emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change.	Obamas plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030.	The president announced earlier this year that he will pull the United States out of the landmark Paris climate agreement.	True
It requires 40 percent of state energy funding to go to the low income neighborhoods and communities of color most vulnerable to sea level rise and extreme weather and includes wage standards backed by labor unions for all state funded green energy projects.	Sixty seven percent of New Yorkers support strengthening enforcement of clean air and water regulations even if it costs U.S. jobs compared to 58 percent nationwide.	Three weeks ago over coffee and cookies at a Manhattan steakhousethe governor made a deal to disband the Independent Democratic Conference known as the IDC.	In 2015 Al Gore joined the governor as he announced plans to cut the states greenhouse gases emissions 40 percent by 2030.	Heather McGhee president of the left leaning think tank Demos and the economist Robert Reich called it the most progressive climate equity policy weve seen.	True
Under Obama the United States the second biggest carbon polluter provided critical impetus for the Paris deal by concluding a precursor deal with China the number one emitter.	It also pledges to provide hundreds of billions of dollars in aid for poor countries badly exposed to drought flood rising seas and other climate impacts.	The Paris Agreement endorsed by members of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC is a bedrock of international action against man made global warming.	Top officials from the Group of Seven industrial nations gathered in Rome Italy today amid growing concerns over the US administration's moves to unravel policies aimed at stalling global warming.	The ministers' agenda had called for discussion of energy security policies to move away from coal natural gas routes and supply sustainable development of electricity sources alternative fuel scenarios and energy access and investments in Africa.	False
They worship at the altar of nihilistic capitalism.	As climate change accelerates and the planet hurdles ever closer to an existential crisis Trump went to a United Nations conference to tout the benefits katowice climate talks cop24.html of fossil fuels.	We are left with no other alternatives.	The job of the next president will be to undo the damage Trump has wrought.	Trump has surrounded himself with people who care far more about the sanctity of fossil fuel profits than the safety of the American people.	False
Stop rolling back fuel auto standards.	All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer.	Your destructive environmental policy is what causes climate change.	Fix the EPA dont dismantle it.	Be the solution not the problem.	False
Administrator Scott Pruitt to cozy up to fossil fuel interests.	The dispute offers a cautionary tale in what one critic described as regulatory capture of a state agency by a company with deep ties to the Trump administration and a reputation as an environmental pariah unafraid to deploy scorched earth tactics against its opponents.	The moves by Energy Transfer Partners further fuel fears of whats to come amid proposed steep cuts to the EPAs budget and a brazen campaign by U.S.	Theyve offered options when we were stuck.	The company has flagrantly challenged the OEPAs authority infuriating the agency and eliciting a rare public investigation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or FERC the federal agency that regulates interstate electricity and natural gas operations.	True
Washington Democratic Gov.	Now Inslees back with an even more urgent message Adopt policies to tackle global warming or there is not survival.	We have just 59 days to do our part to save our children from an endless cycle of crop killing droughts one year and rivers spilling their banks the next Inslee tweeted in January.	Washingtonians are ready to see their elected leaders step up to prevent further harm to our forests our air and our communities.	There is no other option than victory because without victory there is not survival Inslee said at a press conference Monday.	False
In order to unleash the power of the American economy our government must encourage production of American energy.	President Trump acted in America's best interest moving away from a flawed agreement that placed too heavy a burden on American jobs and opening the door to a new agreement that reaches the right balance.	The decision by the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change is a major disappointment for global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote global security.	The Secretary General remains confident that cities states and businesses within the United States along with other countries will continue to demonstrate vision and leadership by working for the low carbon resilient economic growth that will create quality jobs and markets for 21st century prosperity.	Future generations will look back on President Trump's decision as one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st century because of the huge damage to our economy our environment and our geopolitical standing.	True
Measures like Colorados anti fracking Proposition 112 and Washington states Initiative 1631 to price carbon emissions were defeated in part due to a firehose of money being unleashed by fossil fuel interests.	In fact as governor I would like to get us on the road to 100 percent Sisolak said in a campaign ad.	But dont expect too much from a divided Congress and a president who is lackadaisical about whether climate change is even a problem.	Then Democrat Roy Cooper was elected and pulled an aggressive U turn going as far as to sign an executive order committing the state to cutting its greenhouse gas emissions 40 percent below 2005 levels by 2025.	What that means is that the bulk of climate change and energy advances were going to see in the United States over the next two years will come up through state legislatures and governors offices.	True
Spokesman Saviano Abreu added that the situation in the northern towns of Macomia and Quissanga was critical while there were also worries for the cut off island of Ibo.	On Sunday a spokesman for UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said he was appealing for additional resources from the international community to fund the response in the immediate medium and longer term.	It's raining again and the second flight couldn't go.	We managed to send one flight with World Food Programme WFP supplies of rice and biscuits and some non food items Mr Abreu told news agency AFP.	Already Pemba the regional capital of Cabo Delgado state has experienced more than 2m 6.5ft of rain and flooding.	False
Along with the oil companies the plans corporate backers include Johnson Johnson Unilever PepsiCo and Procter Gamble.	A tax and dividend plan would cut American carbon pollution even as the Trump administration withdraws from the Paris climate accord the group says.	In a statement the current chief executive of Exxon Mobil Darren W. Woods said the company was encouraged by the climate groups proposal which aligns closely with our longstanding principles.	Individual supporters include the theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking Steven Chu a secretary of energy under President Barack Obama Michael R. Bloomberg the former New York mayor and the Indian industrialist Ratan Tata.	In 2009 the companys chief executive Rex W. Tillerson who is now secretary of state called carbon taxes a more direct a more transparent and a more effective approach than a cap and trade proposal Congress was considering at the time.	True
One small town Alabama mayor summed up the thoughts of everyone in the room when he faced EPA representatives a simply said What are you doing?	By day Pruitt was touting his rollback efforts to make it easier for energy companies and utilities to save money by polluting and by night he slept peacefully in a bed owned by someone who energy companies and utilities hire to do their bidding on Capitol Hill.	As each day goes by and we find out more about Pruitts conflicts of interests and revelations about his failed judgement however its important to remember that his failures have real world impacts on the health of the people he is supposed to be protecting.	Everyone deserves clean water free from toxic coal ash and the profits of utility executives should never be held in higher regard than the health of local communities.. After nearly a year in his position Pruitt has seemed more concerned with pushing the agenda of wealthy coal executives rather than doing his job to protect the environment and the health of the people who are suffering from the pollution created by coal plants.	In places like and on the weve seen the tragedies that coal ash spills and leaks can cause by devastating communities contaminating water and sending people to the hospital.	True
Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of Energy.	Supporters point outthe project would create more than 500 jobs and pump millions into the local economy over the turbines 25 year lifespan.	They submitted their concerns to theU.S.	Lake Erie Energy Development Corporation the company behind the project also argues it would be a step forward for environmentally friendly energy production.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	True
The government encouraged mining and drilling while knowing full well the hazards caused by burning these fuels namely climate change.	They described the injunction request as an ambitious attempt to throttle important government functions superintending broad swaths of the national economy.	Numerous experts including retired Navy Vice Admiral Lee Gunn economist Joseph Stiglitz and climate scientist Eric Rignot have also filed amicus briefs supporting the injunction against new federal fossil fuel development.	The suit alleges that not only did the federal government fail to act to limit climate change it profited off of selling coal oil and gas rights.	But if they succeed they could set critical precedents lead to billion dollar payouts and radically reshape the effort to limit global warming.	True
Banning nuclear energy.	Ending oil and gas exploration and extraction on public lands.	Taxing carbon pollution.Some called it a carbon fee others called it a carbon tax.	No compromises on the road to utopia.	Set aside for the moment the appalling wastefulness of devoting seven hours seven consecutive hours of prime time programming to the subject.	True
California Gov.	Is there a drought?	Republicans and farmers have complained about management of the smelt population for years because precious water was being pumped out to sea instead of going towards other uses including agriculture.	Hes likely referring to the diverting of water from the Sacramento San Joaquin River Delta into the ocean to protect the delta smelt an endangered fish.	RELATED NYT Claims Global Greening From CO2 Is Terrible Gets Owned State officials said the Carr Fire was sparked in late July by a flat tire on a trailer scraping against the asphalt on a road near Redding California.	False
That has all kind of consequences both locally for this region for the animals and the people who live here as well as globally Max Holmes a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska told the New York Times.	As global temperatures rise scientists are trying to determine the likely speed and scale of the melting of Alaskas permafrost.	The permafrost that covers great swaths of Siberia northern Canada Alaska and Greenland is warming twice as fast as other parts of the planet and could be gone by midcentury causing more warming and releasing gigatonnes of carbon dioxide and methane.	He estimates that if emissions and warming continue at the same rate near surface temperatures will rise above freezing around the middle of the century.	When permafrost melts microbes convert carbon to carbon dioxide causing even more warming.	False
While Zinke works the logging angle Trump and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross have attempted to connect devastating California wildfires to a longstanding fight between farmers and environmentalists over water resources.	This has to do with active forest management.	Ive heard the climate change argument back and forth.	They go to the same little trough of Kool Aid every day.	Coming in at No.	False
That is something we need to determine as quickly as possible.	However he pointed to one alarming trend The most volcanism that is going in the world at present is in regions that have only recently lost their glacier covering after the end of the last ice age.	We had not expected to find anything like that number.	He set up the project with the help of Bingham.	We were amazed Bingham said.	True
House Democrats ran on and won on our bold campaign for a 1 trillion investment in our infrastructure that will make our communities more resilient to the climate crisis while creating 16 million new good paying jobs across the country Pelosis statement read.	Fossil fuel billionaires have a grip on America's democracy.	California is burning.	We're running out of time to act.	We'll pass a win the solutions we need.	False
WASHINGTON President Trump'slatest effort to boost the nation's manufacturing sector is an industry friendly rewrite of air quality regulations he says pose unnecessary and outdated barriers to growth.	The president's primary aim the directive states is promoting domestic manufacturing and job creation.	One of the most troubling aspects of Trump's order is that it's directing an agency established to reduce pollution to make job creation an expresspriority saidJohn Walke director of theNatural Resources Defense Council's clean air program.	This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters.	Building or expanding major projects such as highways and manufacturing plants in these non attainment areas requires extra time and cost to make sure the increased industrial activity won't worsen air quality.	True
This would be dT dt where capital T is temperature and and the lower case is time or congressmans staff if out there thats the problem.	Now its that .1 degree Celsius every decade.	The rate of global warming if it was even detectable at this scale with about .1 degrees celsius every thousand or maybe even every 10000 years.	For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	Bill Nye took on Republican Rep. Thomas Massey who claims to be an electrical engineer but he doesnt understand climate change.	True
We need to get there by breaking down monopolies and increasing competition.	I will take a balanced approach to governing.	How do you change infrastructure so we run on clean energy rather than fossil fuels?	Virginia Del.	Now the monopolies critics fear that the companies which extract fossil fuels and generate energy in addition to transmitting it will seek to water down any efforts to combat climate change.	True
In contrast to these newly contentious climate terms Moebius Clune wrote that references to economic growth emerging business opportunities in the rural US agro tourism and improved aesthetics should be tolerated if not appreciated by all.	On 16 February a staffer named Tim Hafner write to Bramblett I would like to know correct terms I should use instead of climate changes and anything to do with carbon ...	Namely that priority is climate change.	Please visit with your staff and make them aware of this shift in perspective within the executive branch.	In a separate email to senior employees on 24 January just days after Trumps inauguration Jimmy Bramblett deputy chief for programs at the NRCS said It has become clear one of the previous administrations priority is not consistent with that of the incoming administration.	True
In his Spanish language address to the U.N. agency Francis denounced negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet and the greed for profit.	The yoke of poverty caused by the often tragic movement of migrants can be removed by prevention consisting of development projects that create jobs and offer the capacity to respond to climactic and environmental changes he said.	Ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the prerequisites for dealing with world food security Francis also said.	U.S. President Donald Trump announced the decision in June shortly after visiting the pope a strong supporter of the deal.	Thanks to scientific knowledge we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods such as the Paris Accord which sadly some have abandoned he said.	False
But Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro a far right climate skeptic who took office this year with a promise to boost development in Latin Americas biggest economy questioned whether offers of international aid mask a plot to exploit the Amazons resources and weaken Brazilian growth.	Deep ramifications Trump would cost General Motors billions if he actually orders business out of China On Tuesday some clouds and a blue sky were partly visible in the Porto Velho morning light.	Amazon fires What would the Earth be like without the Amazon rainforest?	We have fires every year.	Others said in an open letter that the governments discourse and measures are leading to a collapse in federal environmental management and stimulate environmental crimes inside and outside the Amazon.	False
And all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth.	The world is waking up.	Entire ecosystems are collapsing.	How dare you pretend that this can be solved with business as usual and some technical solutions.	They also rely on my and my childrens generation sucking hundreds of billions of tonnes of your CO2 out of the air with technologies that barely exist.	True
Exxon was made to pay roughly 29 percent of market share which equaled roughly 236372664 at the time of the lawsuit.	Hagens Berman and Sher Edlings dramacomes after New York fileda lawsuit in October against Exxon for allegedly downplaying for decades the risk the companys oil products pose on the climate.	The probe took many twists and turns and seemed to come to a halt shortly after his resignation.RELATEDSEC Investigators Decide Not To Punish Exxon For Alleged Climate Heresy Exxon engaged in a longstanding fraudulent scheme to deceive investors analysts and underwriters concerning the companys management of the risks posed to its business by climate change regulationthe lawsuit notes.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Environmental attorneys Vic Sher and Matt Pawa got intoa multi million dollar legal dispute in 2014 stemming from a lawsuit they both worked on against ExxonMobil.	True
In contrast the UK is currently on a trade mission in Brazil attempting to forge closer ties post Brexit.	Relations between Europe and Brazil are at a low which has worried the powerful agriculture sector.	The Amazon rain forest the lungs which produces 20 of our planets oxygen is on fire.	We feel the climate changing and the world needs the forest.	Handech Wakana Mura another local leader within the forest said With each passing day we see the destruction advance deforestation invasion and logging.	False
We call on Congress to put the Green in the Green New Deal Wednesdays letter reads by empowering us to revitalize the health and economic security of this countrys middle class to make family farming economically viable again and to help reverse climate change and improve Americas air and water quality by making our ecosystems healthy again.	But zeroing out the countrys planet heating emissions by mid century requires a transformation in agriculture as dramatic as shifting the energy sector away from fossil fuels the letter says.	We believe these climate goals are achievable the letter argues but only if the GND includes policies that spur two large scale transitions the transition away from fossil fuels toward renewable energy alternatives and the transition away from industrial agriculture toward family farm based organic and regenerative farming and land use practices that improve soil health and draw down and sequester carbon.	called for breaking up agriculture monopolies as part of her broad rural platform.	Farmers Ranchers for a Green New Deal threw its weight behind the sweeping industrial plan outlined in a resolution that Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. proposed in February.	False
The leading candidates are rising atmospheric CO2 levels a result of emissions from human activities longer growing seasons a result of climate change caused by CO2 emissions and nitrogen pollution another result of fossil fuel combustion and agriculture the article also claims.	In other words more carbon dioxide which is being produced by humans at record levels has improved plant growth which in turn improves food production for humans and animals.	Campbell said the evidence shows a fundamental shift in the Earths plants and that global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race.	He says despite the researchers findings which clearly show global warming helps plantsand thus also helping humans and animalsglobal warming has many negative effects too such as causing climate change which will increase flooding of coastal cities extreme weather and ocean acidification.	The study also offered no solutions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions without causing severe economic and social problems for billions of people.	True
The meeting included about 40 climate scientists economists lawyers and other experts to discuss the possible creation by the Trump administration of a Red Team Blue Team exercise on climate change he wrote.	The people believe them.	I would go right down to the core starting with the question How much do human emissions increase atmospheric carbon dioxide?	Todays climate priests tell people they must cut out their CO2 emissions and pay penances to other nations like China to save our climate.	He was never assigned to work on climate change and holds a doctorate in economics not atmospheric science or climatology and his comments on the finding were deemed to be the product of rushed and at times shoddy scholarship according to a 2009 analysis by The New York Times.	False
It covers areas such as the management of natural resources territorial rights and the environment.	It is an important step in the easing of regional tensions but the deal over the world's largest inland body of water matters for several reasons.	It's difficult to say as the final text of the deal is yet to be published.	This binding document sets rules on how countries can use the world's oceans.	Russia a major exporter of gas and oil to Europe has previously objected to this.	False
Whatever sales or events occurred in California werecausally insignificantin the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming.	They argue that Exxon and others should pony up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change.	District Judge William Alsup wrote that San Francisco and Oakland failed to prove that global warming would be substantially curtailed if the oil company did not operate inside California.	The three cities claimed billions of dollars worth of damage from global warming induced by fossil fuels.	From all that appears in the amended complaints howeverthis worldwide chain of events Exxons oil production does not depend on a particular defendants contacts with California he said.	False
In a separate May 2017 Gallup survey just 2 percent of Americans listed create more green jobs as the best policy to increase employment in the United States compared to 19 percent who listed keep manufacturing jobs hereStop sending overseas.	Voters aged 18 29 ranked green jobs as their No.	In a Gallup poll last month just 1 percent of Americans including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats chose environmentpollution as the countrys most important problem from a list of dozens of issues.	Without an environmental focus Trump voters in support of guaranteed jobs dropped to 30 percent with 45 percent opposed.	Despite the rapid construction of renewable energy infrastructure the United States the worlds largest per capita emitter is aggressively bolstering its fossil fuel production.	False
Event attributionthe ability to link a given phenomenon to manmade global warmingis exceedingly speculative at best and completely unreliable at worst even according to true believers.	At a meeting of climate scientists at Oxford in 2012 one participant argued that given the insufficient observational data and the coarse and mathematically imperfect climate models used to generate attribution claims they are unjustifiably speculative basically unverifiable and better not made at all.	If attributing changes in migratory patterns of songbirds to global warming after a mere 12 years of observation strikes readers as highly suspicious thats probably because it is.	They are meant primarily not to inform but to exhort and to put pressure on policy makers to coerce human behavior change in accordance with climate change theory.	Nature Magazine felt compelled to conclude with unusual modesty that better models are needed before exceptional events can be reliably linked to global warming.	False
NCAs dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes froma 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors.	The report is not without its controversies.	Wed like to see something that is more data driven.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	Continued use of coal and other fossil fuels will eliminate 10 percent of the GDP by 2100according to the report.	True
Theres simply not enough money to know what to prioritize.	Ben Thomas a former tank inspector and state regulator in Alaska who now consults with private operators on meeting the inspection rules said cutting the program would hurt businesses that have come to appreciate the heavy stick of enforcement for bad players and the general community outreach.	When tanks leak harmful chemicals such as oil gas benzene and toluene into soil and ground water drinking water and soil are fouled community health is jeopardized and economic development is crippled.	Most are service stations but they also include any operation where fuel is stored underground such as government fleet garages large retail operations like Costco stores that sell gas and institutions like hospitals or universities that store fuel to power emergency generators.	Loss of program funding would reverse this trend.	False
The Associated Press obtained a copy of the 43 page document which underscored President Trump's bid to revive the struggling coal industry.	The Clean Power Plan represented an unlawful attempt to transform the nation's power grid ... and raise costs on American consumers said Hal Quinn president and CEO of the National Mining Association.	Liz Perera climate policy director for the Sierra Club said repealing the Clean Power Plan is about one thing and one thing only helping corporate polluters profit.	Obama's plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030.	WASHINGTON The Trump administration is moving to roll back the centerpiece of President Barack Obama's efforts to slow global warming seeking to ease restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions from coal fired power plants.	False
growth in the nation in 2018 according to the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis.	He created a fund for clean energy and the state now has extensive solar energy infrastructure and electric buses.	While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels Washington had the highest G.D.P.	Net zero could mean either eliminating carbon emissions altogether or reducing them and using offsetting technologies to cancel out the rest.	His environmental policy record in his home state is long.	True
Asrecently as last year anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu pop.	In December 2009 the islands stalled talks atUnited Nations Climate Change ConferenceinCopenhagen fearing some other developing countries were not committing fully to binding deals on a reduction in carbon emission their chief negotiator stated Tuvalu is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to climate change and our future rests on the outcome of this meeting.57When the conference failed to reach a binding meaningful agreement Tuvalus representative Ian Fry said It looks like we are being offered30 pieces of silverto betray our people and our future Our future is not for sale.	I regret to inform you that Tuvalu cannot accept this document.58 Frys speech to the conference was a highly impassioned plea for countries around the world to address the issues of man made global warming resulting in climate change.	It records possibly Tuvalus greatest moment of glory on the international stage when it seized the opportunity at the 2009 Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen to grandstand about its terrible plight.	In his speech Fry claimed man made global warming to be currently the greatest threat to humanity and ended with an emotional the fate of my country rests in your hands.59 Tuvalus plightalso formed part of the basis for arguably the most hysterical fake news claim in the history of climate alarmism the UNs prediction that by the end of 2010 climate change would have created 50 million environmental refugees.	False
And the forecast for the future is another two feet of sea if there was another two feet of sea level rise what would that mean for Tangier Island?	Eskridge faced the climate warming alarmist during a CNN town hall on global warming.	Eskridges plight to save his island reached mainstream media attention when President Donald Trump called him after seeing a CNN report about the disappearing islands Trump supporting mayor.	And I have a crab house business out on the water.	What do you think the erosion is due to mayor?	False
But how impactful can individual action be in the absence of systemic changes from the top?	What this means is I don't buy any animal products I try not to create any demand signal for animal products he said.	The content is provided for information purposes only.	The reason everyone's waking up is because there's been this massive grassroots shift over the last year or two he said citing the global youth movement for climate action.	Maassarani is quick to admit that his case falls well outside what most people could envisage and is made possible only by living in what he calls a consumption excessive society.	True
Somehow government run healthcare family sustainable wages paid leave and affordable housing are also required for a clean economy the writer wrote.	Lastly the Green New Deal which doesnt exactly reveal how it will be funded except for the suggestion that the Federal Reserve could step in and extend credit.	Because you know like money is just paper and how hard can it be to make some more of the stuff right?	The Green New Deal pushed by freshman New York Democrat Alexandra Ocasio Cortez attempts to radically transform the country including rendering air travel obsolete move the U.S. to rely completely on renewable energy with net zero emissions and guarantee economic security even for people who are unwilling to work.	And imagine what wages will need to be to pay for billion dollar per kilowatt electricity.	True
The Trump administrationsays this and other Obama era rules hinder the American economy and create a stultifying business environment.	Trumps executive order was largely aimed at halting the Clean Power Plan whichrequired states to slash carbon dioxide emissions from coal power plants.	Hehas engaged in a months long investigation into whether Exxon Mobilillegally hid internal climate research from the public and shareholders.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The motion asks the District of Columbia U.S. Court of Appeals to toss out a request fromthe Trump administration for a delay in the court proceedings on an Obama era policy known as the Clean Power Plan.	False
According to oil market analysts cited by CNBC about 20 percent of the countrys oil refining operations are out of service.	The US produces about 17.5 million barrels of oil per day.	Oil giant Exxon Mobil is among the companies to report incidents of emissions released at its refineries as a result of the hurricane which ransacked coastal parts of Texas and caused widespread flooding in the countrys fourth biggest city Houston.	Kinder Morgan the largest energy infrastructure company in North America stores petroleum products for companies such as Chevron and Shell at its terminal in Pasadena Harris.	The unit was stabilized.	False
At around the same time his campaign cautioned voters not to turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines an ironic coincidence or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event?	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Not sure after tonight who has less time to live Biden or the planet said one.	Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding commented another.	Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audiences eyes at the climate change town hall literally as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half truths and excuses.	True
There is no doubt that the greenhouse gas emissions driving climate change pose a significant threat to Maine and the nation Collins said adding that pollution from coal fired power plants threatens Maines natural resources from our working forests fishing and agricultural industries to tourism and recreation.	However the policies he has supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	During his time as acting administrator Andrew Wheeler has been seen as a thoughtful leader who understands the need for sensible environmental policies said Michelle Bloodworth the groups president and CEO.	Sen. John Barrasso R Wyo.	VIDEO At his confirmation hearing in January Wheeler told lawmakers that climate change is a huge issue but not the greatest crisis.	False
First unlike smoking energy is a basic good.	According to a study that is often drawn upon to make the case for liability the two largest contributors to the rise in CO2 emissions since 1980 are Saudi Aramco and Gazprom the state owned oil companies of Saudi Arabia and Russia.	Bill de Blasio mayor of New York recently added his city to the list and also started to divest the citys pension funds from fossil fuel companies.	Some form of energy is necessary to do just about anything including to meet essential needs such as heating or cooling a home which in some places is a genuine safety issue.	The Union of Concerned Scientists the activist group that has spearheaded this push for legal action has compared energy companies behavior with that of tobacco companies decades ago.	True
350.org an international environmental group is helping bolster the strike with its own promotional video.	Climate change is already happening.	RELATEDThousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests We have the right to live our dreams and hopes the letter continues.	Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world.	We demand justice for all past current and future victims of the climate crisis and so we are rising up read an open letter that the activists published on the Guardian claiming they would be protesting on every continent on Friday.	False
This is going to be the Great Society the moon shot the civil rights movement of our generation she said.	Rep. elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. who has made championing a so called Green New Deal her first priority since arriving in Washington emerged as the fiercest voice on the panel Monday.	That is the scale of the ambition that this movement is going to require.	In the 2016 presidential election Sanders staked out the most ambitious climate platform of any candidate vowing to slash carbon dioxide pollution 40 percent by 2030 end fossil fuel subsidies and ban fracking.	Speakers included 350.org founder Bill McKibben The Green Collar Economy author Van Jones activist and Big Little Lies star Shailene Woodley climate scientist Brenda Ekwurzel activist and musician Xiuhtezcatl Martinezand MayorDale Rossof deep red Georgetown Texas whose pragmatic embrace of newly cheap renewable energy has made him a poster boy for how Republicans could quit climate change denialism.	True
Climate Change.'	Antonio Guterres UN Secretary General said this period of time is'a matter of life and death' for countries around the world.	It found that 2018 is on course to be the 4th warmest year on record and we're the 'last generation to be able to do something about it'.	It read 'What ministers and other leaders say and do in Katowice at COP24 will help determine efforts for years to come and either bring the world closer to meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement including protecting those most vulnerable to climate change or push action further down the road.	'The Paris agreement sent a shiver down the spine of institutional investors globally and made them question if they were exposed to stranded assets and whether these political leaders were really serious about climate change' saidJoseph Curtin a senior fellow at the IIEA.	True
The Energy Information Administration projected CPP would result in 1.23 trillion in lost gross domestic product GDP in 2014 dollars from 2020 to 2030 with an average annual GDP loss of 112 billion.	During the 2016 presidential campaign Trump said the United States faces numerous problems more important than climate change and he pledged to eliminate environmental policies hampering economic growth and domestic energy development targeting the CPP by name.	CPP was the centerpiece of the Obama administrations effort to move the United States away from the use of fossil fuels beginning with coal to fight climate change.	Relying on unsubstantiated projections produced by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change the EPA determined carbon dioxide emissions from cars and industry threaten human welfare.	CPP would have dramatically raised energy costs in United States harming the poorest among us more than the rest and putting U.S. industries at a competitive disadvantage in the global economy.	True
Were there oceans?	Were there ponds?	The researchers write that the ratio found in one sample provides the oldest evidence for autotrophs organisms that can produce their own food either through photosynthesis or by using inorganic compounds such as sulphur in their environment.	For the moment it looks very convincing he added.	It adds to evidence that the Earth at that time had surface water and other conditions to support life and wasn't as hot and as inhospitable as scientists used to think said Daniele Pinti a geochemist at the University of Quebec at Montreal.	True
A clause in a communique signed by the member nations says the US reiterates its decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and affirms its strong commitment to economic growth and energy access and security utilizing all energy sources and technologies while protecting the environment.	American strength flows from American energy and as it turns out we have a lot of American energy.	Sides with Russia Saudi Arabia and Kuwait at climate conference Considering Trump announced the US would walk away from the Paris climate agreement which brought together the rest of the world it's no surprise the US continues to be an outlier on the international stage.	Washington CNN Since the Trump administration released its blockbuster report on the day after Thanksgiving outlining the dire environmental and economic impacts of climate change it has made a series of policy and diplomatic decisions or statements that appear to run counter to all of the warnings in the report.	Countries were asked to welcome the report put out by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change which says governments around the world must take rapid far reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society to avoid disastrous levels of global warming.	False
We asked why Trump was saying that the states water is being redirecting into the ocean and where that idea originated.	All of those problems are a result of climate change.	Jerry Brown in a series of tweets.	Wheres the presidents outrage about that?	Kate Poole the senior director of the Natural Resources Defense Councils NRDC water division said its hard to know where to begin in responding to Trumps tweets because theyre fundamentally wrong on many levels.	True
Mr President start listening to the people and the scientists not the greed of the fossil fuel industry Sanders said at a rally on Capitol Hill where he was flanked by environmental advocates and two of his Democratic colleagues Senators Jeff Merkley of Oregon who authored the bill and Ed Markey of Massachusetts.	This is the biggest test facing human civilization and we have to respond and win this battle.	Climate change is real.	Trump has vowed to withdraw from the Paris agreement and has already taken steps through executive action to begin the process of overturning Obama era environmental regulations.	Trump also signed an executive order that aims to unravel the Obama rule designed to protect American waterways from pollution and proposed in his budget draconian cuts to the EPA.	False
Gov.	California is expected to receive about 8 billion in fiscal years 2019 and 2020.	The Trump administration has been picking fights with California over environmental regulations recently.	Gavin Newsom has been critical of President Trump's environmental record and challenged the administration in court.	I just think it's so ironic that the EPA is chastising California which has been so progressive in working towards cleaner air more than any other place in the country says Janet McCabe who was an EPA official during the Obama administration and now directs Indiana University's Environmental Resilience Institute.	False
In an op ed piece for the Guardian published on Saturday Sanders made an economic case for a focus on industries meant to ameliorate the effects of climate change rather than those which contribute to it.	The senator from Vermont wrote No matter what agenda President Trump and his administration of climate deniers push it is clear that jobs in clean energy like wind and solar are growing much more rapidly than jobs in the coal oil and gas sectors.	Previously the website housed data on greenhouse gas emissions from large polluters and reports on the effects of climate change and its impact on human health.	We want to eliminate confusion Freire said by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how were protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law.	The Trump administration has called for budget cuts of nearly one third at the EPA and has sought to weaken protections for human health.	False
The trend comes despite President Donald Trump pledging to 'bring back' the coal industry which has been hit hard by competition from cheaper natural gas and renewable energy.	In 2016 it was dethroned as the America's fuel of choice by natural gas a feat aided in part by a thriving hydro fracking industry that continues to pump abundant fossil fuels out of the Bakken Oil Shale in North Dakota.	'Americans want reliable energy that they can afford' he said at a news conference.	Growth in both solar and wind power has been particularly stark with the former producing 48 times more electricity than it did a decade ago due to cheaper equipment and government incentives.	The US has been shifting toward natural gas which is not only cheaper than coal but also emits less carbon dioxide.	False
We need to be resilient and adapt.	A massive infrastructure project called MOSE has been under way since 2003 to protect the city but it has been plagued by cost overruns corruption scandals and delays.	Tourists are taking pictures but the city is suffering.	Residents whose houses had been hit would immediately get up to 5000 euros in government aid while restaurant and shop owners could receive up to 20000 euros and apply for more later he said.	The damage it's causing to monuments and the people is worrying she said wondering if climate change was to blame.	True
Literally the future of the world depends on us.	But the states economy is heavily dependent on the fossil fuel industry which also wields immense political clout.	We have seen the result which is an emergency of booming fossil fuel production here in the United States at precisely the time we need to be urgently moving away from those dirty fuels Turnbull said.	In 2015 ORourke twice voted to repeal the nationwide ban on exporting crude oil internationally arguing that lifting the prohibition would boost the economy and national security.	The seeds of a decisive and urgent approach were visible in his first campaign visits to Iowa in March when ORourke praised the radical climate change led proposals in the Green New Deal citing his home states struggles with extreme weather such as droughts and hurricanes.	False
The new report offers some broad suggestions for how countries might achieve that.	Controlling emissions from agriculture is also a food security issue.	This is the latest in a series of reports from the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.	And the problem is getting more severe.	The U.N. panel is the latest group of experts to grapple with a global conundrum how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture deforestation and other land use without creating food shortages or displacing people whose livelihoods rely on practices that are unsustainable globally.	False
The Cuyahoga River Love Canal when there was no environmental protection.	President Barack Obama relied heavily on administrative action as Republicans controlled Congress for most of his presidency and resisted passing laws that favored environmental protections over companies.	He wrote that industry groups showed clearly that they would face economic harm if logging was banned in the area.	The effect is to take away an agency's powers to deal with real world problems.	There are also cases where he found that industrial groups have standing to oppose environmental restrictions.	True
A lot of people say well gas is so cheap right now.	As part of the wide ranging conversation about climate change he explainedhow he squares hissupport for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities.	The candidate sat down with Climate Desk in Anacostia Washington D.C. for anexclusive interview a day before the climate strikes taking place around the world.	And while historically nuclear power companies have built their plantsand dumped the wastein poor communities of color Booker believes it doesnt have to be that way He points to agreements struck between local and national governments in Canada and Europe as a model for a community process to deal with the waste.	Even if it means that we have to phase off it in the future the real pressing challenge right now the threat to our health and our safety and our well being is climate change and that needs to be our driving focus.	True
To get rid of the Clean Power Plan without any idea of what to do that could be better is malfeasance on the part of the EPA administrator.	Thats almost doublethe 10 year average of 5.5 million acres.	But the Trump administration on Tuesday announced plans to repeal the United States only major policy to combat climate change.	On Tuesday afternoon Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt who sued to halt the plan last year when he was Oklahomas attorney general released a proposal to eliminate the policy without any replacement leaving the country without a national strategy to adapt to global warming.	The Clean Power Plan a set of Obama era regulations aimed at slashing emissions from coal fired power plants and boosting renewable energy production had yet to go into effect after being temporarily blocked by the Supreme Court since February 2016.	True
We know that fighting climate change will reduce costs and create millions of jobs.We have the knowledge and technology needed to prevent future catastrophes.By doing so we will create broad prosperity cleaner air and water cheaper energy for all and most importantly we will save lives.	We face an existential threat and in the face of this your specious economic arguments and lame fossil fuel endorsed excuses fall flat.	This is a time for action action to care for our fellow citizens in the face of disaster and action to prevent a systemic worsening of the climate crisis by heeding the warning and doing what is right.	The catastrophe unfolding in Houston is yet another stark warning.People are losing their homes and their jobs.	Tragically no industry has done more to block crucial action to address climate change than the oil industry.	True
The populist backlash a revulsion at top down governments laden with jet setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses has swept America with Trumps election Great Britain with Brexit much of Europe and Australia.	In a major report last week the prestigious UK journal The Lancet suggested that pollution of air and water rather than carbon induced global warming is the real crisis facing the world one being overlooked by environmental activists.	Seasonal river flows are changing and floods and droughts are more severe more frequent than ever before.	Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today the study found but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwidethree times more deaths than from AIDS tuberculosis and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence.	The international summit Water and Climate Meeting of the Great Rivers of the World sponsored by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe UNECE and other partners is taking place in Romes Capitol building the Campidoglio from Oct. 23 25.	True
This really is about interaction economic development.	Turnbull a Goldman Sachs executive turned prime minister is the latest world leader to extend outreach to U.S. governors and big city mayors in the age of Mr. Trump's America First policies.	The group which calls itself America's Pledge notes that its collective alliance has an economy larger than Japan and Germany combined and can take steps to reduce emissions by promoting renewable energy use and climate friendly transportation systems.	On the political side a lack of engagement strength and leadership from Washington and the White House Garcetti said in an interview.	Certainly there's some change in policy at the national level with this administration creating a bit of change and foreign governments are wanting to interpret that said Scott Pattison the NGA's executive director and chief executive officer.	True
I was fighting back against corporate greed and this constant disregard for public health.	Ocasio Cortez meanwhile has proposed a new congressional committee to develop a plan to transition the US economy away from fossil fuels reduce the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and promote economic and environmental justice and equality.	As a Michigan state legislator Tlaib fought to reduceair and water pollution in Detroit and put environmental justice at the center of her campaign.	That promise falls short of what Ocasio Cortez Tlaib and the Sunrise Movement protesters seeknamely the creation of a so called Green New Dealbut the attention has started a conversation between the new members and their partys longtime leader.	Climate change has been a key issue for both Tlaib and Ocasio Cortez.	True
The Westinghouse fuel factory turns uranium into several types of fuel for nuclear reactors.	The factory has been operational for almost five decades and is one of a handful of nuclear fuel factories in the US.	In both cases the company resolved to hire new management and overhaul its safety procedures.	Despite boasting that no company is more focused on nuclear fuel reliability Westinghouses South Carolina factory has seen its share of safety foul ups in the past.	Fuel manufactured at the South Carolina facility is used in nuclear reactors in the US Europe and Asia.	True
The organizers said their goal was to shut down the center of decision making in the U.S. to demand the government immediately ends fossil fuel production and enforces a swift and just transition to renewable energy.	pic.twitter.comJhjVBr1hU3 Sam Sweeney September 23 2019 Mondays protests come on the heels of a worldwide climate strike on Friday a series of protests in multiple countries that some called the largest climate rally ever.	pic.twitter.comNWIO1aRvM3 Alejandro Alvarez September 23 2019 Climate activists are shutting down major intersections throughout DC.	Among their demands were the passage of the Green New Deal additional measures to protect indigenous peoples land and a broad push toward climate justice.	Im in downtown DC where climate activists with Extinction Rebellion have blocked the intersection of K and 16th streets with a big sailboat that says rebel for life.	True
Its based on modeling.	Among threats to health and the environment the report also warned that sweeping damage would cut off as much as 10 percent of the U.S. economy.	The 1656 page reportcompiled by 13 federal agencies and more than 300 researchers painted the bleakest portrait of the future United States yet noting that the country had already warmed 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit over the past century and will warm a further 3 degrees by 2100 unless fossil fuel use is scaled back.	... Its not data driven White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said at a news briefing Tuesday.	Its not based on facts.	False
None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president None What my journey into homelessness taught me	While Trump continues to deny the threat that climate change poses to his own properties and the world at large the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco released a report Thursday on the financial risks that global warming poses.	None Turkey's president Erdogan bluffed Trump out of Syria.	Despite warnings from the scientific community developers including Trump have continued to invest in property that could be underwater before long.	Now what does he want?	True
It's where the financial capital of the United States is.	Lower Manhattan is one of the core centers of the American economy he said.	If there's federal money in play it probably looks one way de Blasio said last week.If there's not federal money in play we have to get some private money into it and there has to be some development.	WHAT DOES TRUMP ADMIN'S OWN CLIMATE CHANGE REPORT SAY IS COMING?	This is the core issue we all must face as aggressively as humanly possible.	True
I don't want to lose millions and millions of jobs.	I will say this I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars.	But that doesnt mean we have to put one of our businesses out of business.	The report detailed how Earth's weather health and ecosystems would be in better shape if the world's leaders could somehow limit future human caused warming.	Trump's comments came just days after a Nobel Prize winning Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change issued a warning that global warming would increase climate related risks to health livelihoods food security water supply human security and economic growth.	False
In a first Washington Gov.	Once dubbedthe celebrities choice in offset providers NativeEnergy provides third party verification of how its offsets are used and boasts a high score as a benefit corporation a sort of LEED certification of for profit companies that pay employees decent wages and provide measurable value to society.	Nearly every major declared contender for the Democratic nomination has expressed support for the Green New Deal a movement calling for a sweeping national industrial policy that zeroes out greenhouse gases over a decade guarantees clean energy jobs to millions and puts the country on course to generate as close to 100 percent of its electricity from renewables as possible in a decade.	We are proud to lead the way in the fight against climate change by acting boldly to move our energy system away from fossil fuels and towards sustainable energy sources.	We are proud to lead the way in the fight against climate change by acting boldly to move our energy system away from fossil fuels and towards sustainable energy sources.	True
While he has backed away from a 2012 claim that the concept was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing noncompetitive he is now convinced that somethings changing and itll change back again according to aninterviewhe gave with 60 Minutes on Sunday.	Meanwhile he doesnt want to sacrifice the economic well being of our country for something that nobody really knows.	It projected that humans have until 2030 to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions if we want to avoid catastrophic climate change in the form of massive sea level rise increased drought permafrost melt and coral reef die offs.	Referencing an uncle who was a professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology whom he never spoke to about climate change as apparent proof of his scientific bona fides Trump told the Associated Press that he has a natural instinct for science and that the climate goes back and forth back and forth.	Rep. Gerry Connolly D VA said Democrats should focus on the practical and the opportunistic in the short term while working toward big picture aspirational goals in the long term.	True
Ill only pay for nights I use it but need it held vacant all other nights wrote Shaub who has become a frequent critic of what he sees as ethical lapses in the Trump administration.	has certified that these are standard terms at market rate so it shouldnt matter to you that I dont run EPA.	In December Pruitt and members of his staff spent about 40000 in taxpayer funds to fly to Morocco to help encourage the North African kingdom to import liquefied natural gas from the United States.	In October EPA announced it would rewrite the Clean Power Plan an Obama era regulation that sought to limit planet warming carbon emissions from coal fired power plants like those operated by OGE which paid Harts firm 400000 in lobbying fees in 2017.	Minolis memo says the 50 a night rate would total 1500 for 30 nights a month which he deemed to be a fair price.	True
We are hungry Were tired and weak Our babies are sick the plants and animals complain.	Why are we sick?	No one has any answers.	What is doing this to us?	Pollution also comes from the cars and trucks people drive.	False
The reefs and their abundance of marine life provide livelihoods for millions of people around the world so the decline in coral reefs is poised to become a humanitarian crisis.	The islands with no rats are full of birds they're noisy the sky is full and they smell because the guano the birds are depositing back on the island is very pungent.	By killing seabirds this study revealed rats disrupt a healthy ecosystem that depends on the seabird droppings which fertilise the reefs surrounding the island.	Rats decimate seabird populations in turn decimating the volume of bird droppings a natural coral fertiliser.	And we're desperately trying to find ways to enhance the resilience of coral reefs and allow them to cope with climate change.	False
So what will replace corn on Iowa's fertile land?	They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes most of them bad for growing corn.	5 Major Crops In The Crosshairs Of Climate Change Climate change is coming like a freight train or a rising tide.	By 2100 the Corn Belt is going to be in Canada not in the United States says Jason Clay senior vice president for food and markets at the World Wildlife Fund.	Russia which is already a major wheat exporter may be able to expand the amount of land devoted to this crop.	True
I believe man plays a part in it but not to the extent that others have been talking about that's what me and Donald Trump were talking about Eskridge said.	Tangier Island's steadfast rejection of climate change reflects the rigidity of American opinions about global warming often defined along political party lines.	That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels.	Journalists and politicians now view the island as a symbol of the climate crisis.	Conservative climate activists like Rob Sisson of ConservAmerica and Mitch Hescox of the Evangelical Environmental Network said the rejection of climate change by Tangier residents is not surprising their groups often have trouble convincing fellow Republicans global warming is a real issue.	False
In an email Jennifer Francis a Rutgers University climate researcher said its likely that increasing drought in Central America is making it more difficult for farmers there to make a living.	A quasi fascist policy of fear mongering about immigration and corresponding militarization of the border is clearly the major thrust of Trumps response to the mounting impacts of climate chaos said Ashley Dawson author ofExtreme Cities The Peril and Promise of Urban Life in the Age of Climate Change.	The president attempted to cut funding forUnited States Agency for International Development by 33 percent this year though bipartisan support for the federal governments dedicated aid agency staved off the proposal.	Now with the White House poised to gut the federal governments only two major rules to reduce planet warming emissions and Trumpthreatening to cut aid to drought and violence afflicted Honduras Guatemala and El Salvador critics say the administrations strategy to deal with climate change is taking shape frustrating national security experts who say hunkering down and militarizing borders will do little to mitigate global warmings threats.	The best way from a security perspective is to bolster the resilience of those countries so you reduce the likelihood of instability reduce the likelihood of conflict and reduce the likelihood of displacement that might force outward migration.	False
This was part ofa wider war on the Green Blob which has also involved withdrawing from the UNs Paris climate accord.	Even within his own cabinet there are numerous siren voices Javanka Secretary of State Tillerson Economics advisor Gary Cohn urging Trump to maintain his predecessors disastrous green policies.	Since carbon dioxide is a natural by product of almost every industrial process the knock on damage to the U.S economy in the form of lost jobs and higher energy prices would have been huge.	So while its good news that the CPP will probably never be implemented the bad news is how difficult it is even for a determinedly skeptical president like Trump to unravel environmental regulation.	In 2016 when it launched the plan at Obamas behest the EPA declared that theClean Power Plan was a vital cost effective way of combating climate change which would ultimately benefit the U.S. consumer.	False
Browns order applies to the entire economy including transportation and agriculture.	University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. recentlypublished a paperon the problems with the UNs use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord.	California Democratic Gov.	What Brownorderedis not just reducing emissions but instead implied sucking more greenhouse gas out of the air than human activities in his state put up and not just for electricity.	Yet BECCS plays a very real role in todays climate policy arena Pielke wrote by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and 90s.	True
Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a non profit promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	The Heartland Institute calls itself a leading free market think tank.	It rejects decades of science saying fossil fuel emissions are altering the climate and says on its website that curbing use of petroleum and coal to fight climate change would squander one of America's greatest comparative advantages among the world's nations.	If you send a list we will make sure an invitation is sent Konkus wrote to then Heartland president Joseph Bast in May 2017 seeking suggestions on scientists and economists the EPA could invite to an annual EPA public hearing on the agency's science standards.	An email last February shows Bast forwarded to followers an email with the line From the White House rallying activists to public hearings the EPA was then holding around the country on repealing an Obama era power plan meant to curb fossil fuel emissions.	False
It isa direct impact of the climate crisis.	Climate Justice.	No more coal no more oil keep your carbon in the soil and Waters are rising people are dying.	The youths held signs that read Greed Kills Help My Home is on Fire and 527 Years of Indigenous Resistance and chanted in between speeches phrases such as What do we want?	When do we want it?	False
Our society needs to turn dramatically and immediately towards the shared goals of environmental justice broad based prosperity and health.	It also stated that the GND would provide benefits for people unwilling to work.	Hes all in on climate program.	A real solution proposed in Washington?	Other analysts shared similar sentiments.	False
But the decarbonization of the real U.S. economy as opposed to the cardboard fossil fuel handicapped White House version continues.	Lets begin with bringing back coal.	And the decarbonization of the American economy the real economy not the fake news economy shows its still true.The world can see and measure America is still in.	But government is not alone.The private sector where companies are increasingly competing with each other to succeed in the carbon free economy of the future is making Trumps climate denial braggadocio increasingly irrelevant.	While coal fades state governments representing almost 60 percentof the American economy are racing forward.In January California released its plan to cut its emissions by 40 percent by 2030 and went on to extend its cap and trade program for another decade until 2030 this time with support for the first time from the oil industry!	False
We can create millions of good paying jobs.	Please dont tell me that we cannot take on the fossil fuel industry.	I have a plan for a green industrial policy that takes advantage of the fact that we do what we do best and that is innovate and create.	Montana Gov.	It outlines a vision for economic infrastructure and clean energy investment while aggressively ramping down to net zero emissions as soon as possible.	False
He was CEO and chairman of ExxonMobil from 2006 until he joined the Trump administration in 2017.	In the late 90s Koch Industries invested in an aerospace company Pompeo founded with fellow West Point alumni.	Jake Schmidt the international program director at the Natural Resources Defense Council released the following statement Replacing the man from Big Oil with a first class climate denier simply goes from bad to worse.	He sold his interest in Thayer Aerospace in 2006 and became president of Sentry International which produces and sells oil field equipment.	He received more financial backing from Koch Industries an energy and natural resources conglomerate than any other candidate in the 2010 elections 80000.	True
Embracing such a policy would send shockwaves through the global car industry due to the heft of Californias auto market.	The trade association represents Toyota Honda Motor Co. and other overseas carmakers in the U.S. We have been working with California on intelligent market based approaches to emissions reductions beyond 2025 and we hope that this doesnt signal an abandonment of that position Global Automakers Chief Executive Officer John Bozzella said in a statement.	There are people who believe including who work for me that you could stop all sales of new internal combustion cars by 2030.	The Association of Global Automakers said consumers must be able to afford the cleaner cars that California says are needed to meet its climate goals.	Rising emissions from on road transportation has undercut the states efforts to reduce pollutionaccording to Next 10 San Francisco based non profit.	False
It could prove to be an example of how emerging economies can grow while slashing their carbon emissions.	But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	A healthy and environmentally sustainable future requires more than just switching from dirty coal to wind or solar power.	The overall direction if not the magnitude and rate of change laid out in the report is not just possible but essential both financially and environmentally.	But first the state must overcome its addiction to coal writes Nityanand Jayaraman.	False
Another way to think about it is that Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement is supported in reality by only about 30 of the economy and 35 of the population Hultman said.	The next president must repay this extraordinary climate debt by rapidly moving America to 100 clean energy and financing the decarbonization of the Global South Su said referring to the developing world.	Carl Pope vice chair of the group Americas Pledge said its members who are vowing to keep fighting the climate emergency produce more than half the countrys heat trapping emissions and represent about 70 of the US gross domestic product.	Staying on par with those more advanced countries would require the US government to eliminate pollution from coal and natural gas powered electricity plants transportation manufacturing facilities and agriculture.	In addition the Trump administration has also pulled US funding commitments to help the developing world cut pollution.	False
Achieving this goal would require a drastic shift in Europes economy away from fossil fuels to clean energy and low carbon lifestyles.	The French sent us a very clear message they want environment to be at the heart of our lives at the heart of the political game and that message has been spread across Europe he said.	The climate issue is super important at the moment Tran said.	Armin Laschet the governor of Germanys most populous state North Rhine Westphalia and a member of Chancellor Angela Merkels center right Union bloc called the outcome a wake up call for politics.	Across Europe this was a vote to protect the climate he said.	False
Of six different options global warming and climate change performed the worst beaten handily by climate crisis environmental destruction weather destabilization and environmental collapse.	Egoism and self interest have turned creation a place of encounter and sharing into an arena of competition and conflict he said.	Now is the time to abandon our dependence on fossil fuels and move quickly and decisively towards forms of clean energy and a sustainable and circular economy.	Let us make an effort to change and to adopt more simple and respectful lifestyles!	Deterioration has increased in recent decades constant pollution the continued use of fossil fuels intensive agricultural exploitation and deforestation are causing global temperatures to rise above safe levels he said.	True
Global Change Research Program.	New U.S.	Climate Assessment Forecasts Dire Effects On Economy Health The Trump administration released a major climate assessment on Black Friday the culmination of years of research by the country's top climate scientists.	It is affecting all of us no matter where we live.	Extreme weather events could also cause price spikes and interrupt international trade.	True
The United States has a seat at the table.	He echoed Trumps attack on members of the agreement as having economic rather than environmental motives.	The world applauded when we joined Paris and you know why?	We will reach out and reciprocate with nations that seek to achieve that.	Theres enough to deal with with respect to the Paris agreement and making an informed decision about this important issue he said.	True
To avert climate chaos we need to challenge the free market fundamentalism that has conquered the world since the 1980s.	As Naomi Klein argues even the rights fervent conspiracy theorists tend to understand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are for business as usual which has distributed its profits among elites of both parties.	The Green New Deal promises a well paid job for everyone who wants one a real mass transit system clean and affordable energy and universal healthcare a necessity as people leave their jobs to find new work in the transition away from fossil fuels.	Members of Trumps cabinet Klein has written donald trump tax cuts climate change republican ideology capitalism with their desperate need to deny the reality of global warming or belittle its implications nonetheless understand something that is fundamentally true.	As the New York Times reported in its article on the White Houses new climate plans both Happer and John Bolton who tapped him for the administration have received generous support from the Mercers the rightwing family credited with both spreading climate denial and helping fuel the opioid epidemic.	False
The report is seen as the main scientific guide for government policymakers on how to implement the 2015 Paris Agreement.	Meeting the 1.5C limit required rapid far reaching and unprecedented change in land and energy use industry buildings transport and cities it said adding temperatures would be 1.5C higher between 2030 and 2052 at the current pace.	The Paris pact aims to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2C above pre industrial levels while seeking to tighten the goal to 1.5C.	The report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it said Amjad Abdulla the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	There has already been a rise of 1C since the mid 1800s as industrialization lifted emissions of carbon dioxide CO2 the main greenhouse gas blamed for climate change.	False
He sees it as a clear job killer as an economy strangler and a desperately unfair stitch up by other countries wanting to take economic advantage of the US.	He claimed the agreement would cost the US 3tn in lost GDP and 6.5 million jobs while rival economies like China and India were treated more favourably.	The US contributes about 15 of global emissions of carbon but it is also a significant source of finance and technology for developing countries in their efforts to fight rising temperatures.	Many trade deals will soon be under re negotiation.	The scale of his opposition seeing the deal as a massive redistribution of US wealth to other countries is a clear indication that he has fully bought into an economic nationalist and climate denier perspective.	False
Trump said the deal transferred wealth from the U.S. to economic rivals like China and India.	Trump said the Paris agreement was poorly negotiated and would harm the U.S. economy.	Throughout much of the 2016 campaign then candidate Donald Trump railed against corporate and global elitists who want to dictate their liberal agenda onto the American public with no understanding of how such liberal policies would harm our economy and the Americanpeople.	Now a new report sheds some more light into why President Trump rejected the globalist scam and its incrediblespecifically he wanted to stick it to holier than thou elites in America specifically leftists who flyaround in private jets drive SUVs and live in massive mansions yet lecture Americans about their environmental impact.	President Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal is a giant middle finger to elitists all around the world who want America to suffer simply to promote their global warming alarmism.	True
Salvage expert Nick Sloane is the brains behind a scheme to tow a massive iceberg from Antarctica to Cape Town to alleviate the South African city's drought AFP PhotoRODGER BOSCH Cape Town AFP It is a plan as crazy as the situation is desperate towing an iceberg from Antarctica to Cape Town to supply fresh water to a city in the grip of drought.	It won't sort out Cape Town's crisis but it will be about 20 to 30 percent of their annual needs said Sloane.	It is a high risk project but also one which may have a very high reward at the end said Orheim.	For Wolfgang Foerg the chief executive of Swiss company Water Vision which has teamed up with Sloane the project has huge potential in the face of ever more frequent drought.	Here we are talking about 100 million tons said Sloane.	True
Other areas could be designated for economic cooperation and travel.	The NIE regularly updates Koreans about the state of nature in the DMZ through videos it posts on its social media accounts.	The data collected in the DMZ took place from 2014 to 2017.	The region should be classified according to value such as key areas with high preservation value and buffer areas.	Over 60 years have passed since the creation of the DMZ.	True
Last month Representative Kevin Cramer a Republican from oil gas and coal rich North Dakota wrote The U.S. should present a new pledge that does no harm to our economy.	That view is also backed by economists at the Heritage Foundation the conservative think tank that has supplied the Trump administration with many of its policy proposals.	Cancel the Paris climate treaty and any other agreements entered into unilaterally and without the consent of Congress Mr. Hamm wrote in a letter to Mr. Trump before his inauguration.	In response Peter Trelenberg the manager of environmental policy and planning at Exxon Mobil wrote to Mr. Banks Exxon Mobil supports the Paris agreement as an effective framework for addressing the risks of climate change.	What we say to the White House is that its clearly a terrible agreement for the American people said Tim Phillips the president of Americans for Prosperity.	True
Crops like corn are now turned into ethanol but that raises food prices.	Growing more forests which absorb CO2 is one tactic.	But most governments now fear the cost of a global overhaul of the world's energy economy in the short time needed to meet the Paris climate goals.	This is our chance to decide what that road will look like.	In 50 years she says it's going to be very different.	False
They are just funding businesses without any positive results.	Dr. Baatar's CEO Baatar Chantsaldulam said sales surge by 20 to 30 percent during winter when pollution tends to reach its peak.	The government spent 120 million between 2008 2016 to combat pollution with half of the funds coming out of its foreign aid revenue.	With residents of so called ger slum districts using coal stoves to cook and heat their homes in the world's coldest capital where temperatures can dip as low as 40 Celsius 40 Fahrenheit pollution has skyrocketed.	It has reached a point that it is like just any other grocery product that you have to buy regularly.	False
It calls for the creation of millions of new high wage jobs to help wipe out poverty.	We'll probably lose 10 to 15 of our GDP.	The deal describes a 10 year economic mobilization that would overhaul the nation's infrastructure and build new layers into the existing social safety net.	He said guaranteed jobs free to those who don't want to work probably cost 45 trillion.	The deal proposes guaranteeing a job with a family sustaining wage adequate family and medical leave paid vacations and retirement security to all people of the United States.	False
All while owning multiple mansions vacationing on yachts and flying thousands of miles in private jets.	The actor also asked if are we too late to stop climate change and blasted the supposed corporate greed of the coal oil and gas industries in January 2016.	In 2011 she co wrote a USA Today op ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change.	Yet she has owned five homes and a private jet all at the same time.	But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?	False
Now the US moves backward.	Climate change is a threat multiplier for much broader dislocation accelerating the complex factors that drive people from their homes.	Our health hangs in the balance too.	President Donald Trump is making good on his campaign promise to pull the US out of the Paris climate agreement a move thats been called a moral disgrace and thats expected to hinder much needed progress in the fight against global warming.	The December 2015 agreement which has been signed by nearly 200 countries aimed to cut greenhouse gas emissions and keep global warming below 2 degrees Celsius.	False
Trade Renegotiate NAFTA.	Work with businesses.	Education Establish universal pre K education.	Provide two free years of higher education.	Reconstitute U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE.	False
In truth green economies are those with taxpayer subsidized and government mandated renewable energy primarily wind and solar.	For the common goals and objectives shared by the U.N. body and the Obama administration are specifically crafted to hamstring American fossil fuel energy development promote an assortment of politically fashionable but otherwise uncompetitive green technologies and products and perpetuate the deplorable living conditions in the worlds poorest countries.	All of this is to be pursued through jointly held symposia seminars workshops study tours collaborative research and development projects exchanges and training programs and other forms of cooperation that strengthen the bonds between UNEP and the U.S.	For its part UNFCCC has enthusiastically spread climate alarmism and gone to extraordinary lengths to deny the residents of the worlds poorest access to reliable and affordable electricity and transportation fuel thereby perpetuating their poverty.	Continued fealty to the Obama era MOU runs counter to the presidents goal of American global energy dominance which is anchored to our abundance of oil natural gas and coal.	True
IFO looked at electric car production in Germany which is heavily reliant on coal power.	China and the U.S. are the first and second largest electric car producers respectively.	China gets 65 percent of its electricity from coal power and the U.S. relies on coal for 27 percent of its electric power.	However Congress is debating whether or not to extend electric car subsidies.	China is also the top battery producing country using coal power to produce batteries for electric vehicles that are then subsidized for being zero emissions.	True
The forest products industry is worth 400 billion a year.	The US southeast is already experiencing repeated droughts it is already experiencing heatwaves it is the last place to plant a eucalyptus plantation.	This technology is worth billions of dollars a year.	If you can increase yields by 40 percent you can greatly reduce prices.	Eucalyptus trees are the number one industrial tree plantation used in Latin America Africa and Asia traditionally in tropical areas where commerce appreciates their fast growth and versatility.	False
Washington Gov.	Voxs David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points.	Here is the format The audience will be composed of selected Democrats independents and stakeholders.	It would behoove the networks to focus their discussion on getting at these subtle differences among the candidates like what executive orders they would sign how high climate change ranks as a priority and what measures would a candidate pursue to ensure a just transition to clean energy.	CNNs climate change forum has immense potential to illuminate real differences among the candidates and inform the public about the often weedy details of climate policy.	True
The day before that Zinke lambasted environmental terrorists groups that have not allowed public access that refuse to allow harvest of timber in aninterviewwith Breitbart Radio.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	In California for example humanscaused95 percent of all wildfires with power lines and utility equipment becoming a growing problem.	You can thin all you want till the cows come home but fire will overtake that Spivak said adding what is misleading is people like Zinke and other people who refuse to talk about climate change and how we need to tackle that.	Climate change creates drought high wind conditions low humidity.	True
This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters its nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science gut our clean air protections and put polluter profits ahead of our health Sara Jordan a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters said in a statement.	The executive order titled Promoting Domestic Manufacturing and Job Creation Policies and Procedures Relating to Implementation of Air Quality Standards reverses an Obama era decision.	The orderinstructs the EPA to consider what countries that dont border the United States are doing to reduce pollution allowing the agency to compare U.S. regulations to those in developing nations like China and India.	It marks the latest assault on clean air rules putting poor people and communities of color particularly at risk.	Its a go ahead for industry that if they take their best shot at states the EPA wont be getting in the way.	True
In a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity it is necessary to recall the values of custody of creation the preferential option for the poor and the peace that is built in everyday life including with attention to the care of the common home she said.	The politically incorrect gift highlighted thecost effectivenessand ready availability of fossil fuels which were responsible for powering the industrial revolution throughout the developed world.	Their leadership is launching a path that the World Bank and its financial organs should follow.	Considering that the World Bank is meeting these days in Washington we hope its leaders will notice that the fossil free movement has grown and is getting stronger.	In this new wave of ethical investing the total figure of divestiture for the church groups involved has not been disclosed but is reportedly four times higher than a previous church record.	False
They are here for the money and thats it Carpenter told KING.	When workers found one of their containers filled with rainwater they decided to dump it onto the ground rather than testing the water or transferring it to new containers.	A contract shows the company would earn 58333 for each hose that was removed for a total of more than 1 million dollars if they finished the project by September 30.	For decades it produced the majority of the plutonium for the US nuclear weapons arsenal.	This fee structure ignores human nature which is to take shortcuts to get the money without any accountability unless they get caught.	True
Published with permission of The American Independent.	Air pollution leads to the premature death of 100000 Americans every year the AP reports and Trumps own EPA shows not only worse air pollution but a significant increase in the two worst categories very unhealthy and hazardous conditions.	His lies dont make it cleaner and his policies are on track to make it worse.	During the Trump administration U.S. cities saw air pollution in one of these two categories nearly 140 times which is almost three times as often as the average from 2013 to 2016.	While Trump has been in office the air has gotten dirtier.	True
Economists like public health researchers are limited by their inability to deliberately poison people in order to study the impact of the poisoning.	Its true of course that you dont want to do a completely naive associational study and then leap to big policy conclusions from it.	This is critically important for two main reasons.	Climate change garners most of the headlines but the Trump administration is pushing a much larger and broader pro pollution agenda whose latest manifestation is a push at the EPA to overturn a long established scientific consensus that fine particulate pollution colloquially soot kills people.	In addition to killing small numbers of people air pollution harms large numbers of people in small but meaningful ways This is an emerging field of study and it would obviously benefit from some further inquiry.	True
The Peoples Climate March which was supported by hundreds of thousands across the country and tens of thousands in Washington was sponsored by environmental groups labor unions and social justice groups.	In Washington D.C. the temperature was in the upper 80s to near 90 as people gathered to protest Trumps climate policies.	Video showed thousands marching in the streets of Washington where former Vice President Al Gore Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Virgin Atlantic owner Richard Branson showed up to protest as well.	This weekends protests come one week after last weeks March for Science.	As well as an ironic sign In other parts of the country where similar marches and rallies took place the weather was a little kinder to the liberal climate alarmist narrative.	True
Florida To Decide On Offshore Drilling And Vaping?	Jay Inslee and many Democrats and environmentalists who want to fight man made global warming.	The Daily Caller News Foundation lays out everything one needs to know about the six most important energy battles this election.	The battle of Initiative 1631 has become the most expensive in state history so far drawing 45 million from both sides of the policy.	While our editorial board opposes offshore drilling in state waters we also are philosophically opposed to the Constitution Revision Commissions bundling of these unrelated issues into a single amendment the editorial board of Treasure Coast Newspapers wrote in October.	True
In a consent decree reached with Exxon Mobil last October the EPA boasted that the company would spend 300 million to install pollution controls but Schaeffer noted that this total includes measures installed as far back as 2013.	And one new measure of Pruitts foot dragging thats just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately.	In his first year as head of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt has made a huge mark shrinking his agency and repealing as many Obama era environmental regulations as possible.	Enforcement matters especially to the people who live and work next to plants that continue to release more pollution than the law allows.	What this means is that the EPA is not going after polluters like it used to.	True
'It is what the public wants it makes economic sense and it is what the world needs in order to safeguard the lives of future generations.'	Coal crazy China tries to improve its image Chinahas stepped forward to replace the US as a world leader on climate change.	A key part of the 2015 Paris deal signed by more than 190 nations was a commitment from the richest nations to contribute 78billion a year to the Green Climate Fund to help poorer countries tackle global warming.	Gareth Redmond King head of climate and energy at the World Wide Fund for Nature said investment in renewable energy was a great business opportunity.	Nick Mabey of the climate change think tank E3G said it was the 'strongest bilateral statement on climate' he had seen adding 'President Trump has driven the EU and China together to write the rules for the clean economy.'	False
Gov.	Heoutraged the world by exiting the Paris climate agreement.	He is trying to undo the Clean Power Plan fuel economy standards for carsoffshore drilling restrictions and solar tax credits.	More recently Brown helped found the United States Climate Alliance a group of state and local governments pledging to abide by the Paris climate agreement even after the federal government withdraws.	Donald Trump has singlehandedly been working to set back U.S. climate policy 50 years.	False
Greta said 'The biggest danger is not inaction the real danger is when politicians and CEOs are making it look like real action is happening when in fact almost nothing is being done apart from clever accounting and creative PR.'	Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.'	The young activist attracted international attention after holding a sign that said 'skolstrejk fr klimatet' or 'School strike for the climate' in Swedish parliament last year.	In a speech the teenager also criticized governments for avoiding taking action to cut greenhouse gas emissions and 'not behaving as if we are in an emergency'.	Time editor in chief Edward Felsenthal told the Today show 'She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement.'	False
He told reporters that climate change is tremendously exaggerated adding that climate research is important but I think its become sort of a cult movement in the last five years.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Nye who is well known for hosting a childrens TV show in the 1990s scolded CNNs New Day Saturday panel Saturday for pitting his environmentalist pedigree against the climate skepticism of physicistWilliam Happer.	Climate models predicted Antarctic sea ice would shrink and that climate change would boost snowfall in the southern hemisphere yet neither of those predictions have panned out.	Happer a science adviser to President Donald Trump made public his skeptical views on climate change in January.	False
The question should be you know just how much and what are the policy changes that we need to make to affect that?	Trump has pegged himself as a savior of Americas dying coal industry and has vowed to increase oil and gas production openingnow protected areasof the Arctic and Atlantic oceans to drilling.	In June he announced plans topull the U.S. out of the historic Paris Agreement on climate change the international accord in which nearly 200 countries committed to slashing carbon emissions in an effort to prevent global temperatures fromincreasing 2 degrees Celsiusabove pre industrial levelsthe line scientists say the world must stay below to stave off the very worst effects of climate change.	Is man having an effect on it?	The report delivers a strikingly different message than the one being pushed by Trump and his Cabinet members who continue to downplay the urgency of the threat as they work toward energy dominance.	False
Additionally his proposed 2018 budget would cut funding for the Office of Surface Mining which is responsible for protecting society and the environment from the adverse effects of surface coal mining operations.	In a letter written on Friday the Interior Department announced the shutdown of the study which was started in 2016 under former President Barack Obama while the department undergoes an agency wide budgetary review.	Some suggest the move may be part of President Donald Trump's efforts to bring back coal.	In February he scrapped the Stream Protection Rule a regulation to protect waterways from coal mining waste and promised to bring back coal mining jobs.	'It's infuriating that Trump would halt this study on the health effects of mountaintop removal coal mining research that people in Appalachia have been demanding for years' Bill Price Senior Appalachia Organizing Representative for Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign said in a statement.	False
Property economy and jobs must serve Earth First.	The Economic Growth discussion is always the same highest and best value a misnomer if ever there was one profits trump survival pun intended.	We must do more with less and the rich must share or move out.	We must impose firm honest value on land and resources and discourage speculative over inflation speculation is not bad per se but it is one of the easiest activities to exaggerate and corrupt.	The business of government is the peoples business developers step to the rear.	True
The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions a major factor in global warming.	President Donald Trump who insists he is an environmentalist has also relaxed rules on carbon emissions from vehicles and intends to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris agreement on climate change.	The move is the Trump administrations latest easing of rules designed to curb greenhouse gas emissions including many put forth by his predecessor President Barack Obama.	Concern about climate has heightened in recent weeks amid fires in the Arctic and the Amazon rainforest and melting of ice in Greenland.	Susan Dio chairman and president of BP America supported federal regulation of methane in an opinion piece in the Houston Chronicle earlier this year calling it the the best way to help further reduce and ultimately eliminate methane emissions industrywide.	False
PG is one of the world's largest consumer products companies with annual revenue of 67 billion and a stock market value of 305 billion.	When companies make these pledges to be sustainably sourced or use recycled content that's the problem that they're solving.	It's that natural infrastructure that we're trying to avoid being lost.	We believe in the dignity of life and part of that is having a place to live he said.	Frankly there are a lot of different companies that have moved in the direction of using recycled paper and I have a hard time imagining that they would have done it if it were not economically sustainable Musgrave said.	False
That's why he's pushing for a more diversified economy.	This article originally appeared at PRI's The World.	The formula here has worked residents in Wyoming enjoy among the highest per capita GDP in the nation.	And that's really what we have here says economist Robert Godby director of the Center for Energy Economics and Public Policy at the University of Wyoming.	At the end of the day the debate in Wyoming is really about jobs.	False
Former President Barack Obama had put in place a rule in 2016 that was connected to a regulatory strategy which sought to reduce methane emissions.	The courts ruling is yet another reminder now in the context of environmental protection that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the presidents desire to order immediate change Richard Lazarus environmental law professor at Harvard Law School said in an email as reported by the Post.	READ MOREMining in Alaska may return as EPA scraps Obama era regulations Pruitt the new head of the EPA had been looking to extend a suspension on these activities for two years.	Pruitt has also begun to move on suspending or revoking many other measures which were implemented during the Obama years.	Lazarus continued the DC Circuits ruling today makes clear that neither the president nor his EPA administrator Scott Pruitt can by fiat unilaterally and instantaneously repeal or otherwise stay the effectiveness of the environmental protection rules put into place during the Obama administration.	True
The loss for the administration means it now faces a high profile examination of U.S. climate change policy during the trial that was due to begin on Oct. 29 in Eugene Oregon but has since been postponed by the judge.	Circuit Court of Appeals.	This suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions Trump administration Solicitor General Noel Francisco said in court papers.	WASHINGTON Reuters The U.S. Supreme Court on Friday rejected for now a bid by the President Donald Trumps administration to block a trial in a lawsuit filed by young activists who have accused the U.S. government of ignoring the perils of climate change.	This is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights Olson said in court papers.	False
Related Green New Deal What is it and what does it mean for climate change?	But it also enjoyed larger buy in.	LWCF has protected some of our most treasured natural resources while creating jobs supporting local economies and providing countless opportunitiesfor recreation she said on the House floor.	Rep. Debbie Dingell D Mich praised the program for its universal benefits saying the conservation fund has steered 3.9 billion to some 40000 projects in every county across this country since it began in the 1960s.	If indeed we're going to have public lands there should be access to those lands.	False
The sale comes amid an ongoing debate over drilling in states like Colorado Arizona and New Mexico where a coalition of tribes are calling for a halt on energy development near land that Native Americans consider sacred.	The Trump administration has pushed to open vast expanses of public lands to oil and gas drilling speed up the construction of petroleum pipelines and ease federal environmental regulations dismissing calls from scientists in and out of government that immediate cuts in oil gas and coal emissions are required to stave off the worst of climate change.	When this oil and gas leasing happens on or near sacred lands it risks de stabilizing the bedrock of the structures said Ahjani Yepa a member of Utah Din Bikyah a Navajo grass roots organization.	The Bureau of Land Management would benefit from more community outreach and long term planning to lease parcels on sensitive landscapes said Erika Pollard an associate director with the National Parks Conservation Association.	Included in the Bureau of Land Managements September oil and gas lease sale is about 47 square miles 122 square kilometers of land north of Hovenweep National Monument a group of prehistoric villages overlooking a canyon with connections to several indigenous tribes throughout the U.S. Southwest.	False
As a Christian I have a responsibility to try my best to be as wealthy as possible James Wanliss an associate professor of physics at Presbyterian College in South Carolina and the author ofThe Green Dragon Is Global Warming a Religion?	If youre grindingly poor youre just going to care about your next meal and too bad if trees get in your way.	His campaign site calls for energy independence and stakes out the vague position Coal mining and oil drilling should be encouraged subject only to reasonable regulations.	The position paper called for protecting Gods creation and embracing the governments help in doing so.	In December The Baptist Press the official media arm of the Southern Baptist Convention published an open letter of support for Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitts nomination amid fierce backlash over the former Oklahoma attorney generals rejection of the scientific consensus on climate change.	False
We could tie this to climate change or we could tie it to saving taxpayer money.	And I think it's important that as we come together as a country we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response that we are adapting properly.	The only way we become resilient as a nation is we have to create that true culture of preparedness among our citizenry which we do not have and then we also have to look how we move forward when it comes to infrastructure protection.	Whether you believe in climate change or you don't you are embarking on some future activity.	The aim of the competition was to award grants to communities hit by natural disasters to fund rebuilding them to better weather future events worsened by climate change.	False
Take Trumps nominee to head the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt.	President Donald Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement has been portrayed in some press coverage as a decision driven by either his personal idiosyncrasies or the policy agenda of White House chief strategist Steve Bannon.	The reality is that one of the USs two major political parties is institutionally committed at nearly every level to the same basic agenda of environmental deregulation and inaction on carbon emissions.	Trumps withdrawal in Paris isnt an odd outlier but instead rests on that foundation.	Which makes it the crucial context for Trumps move Thursday.	False
Exactly what we did to lift millions out of the Great Depression and build the largest middle class the world had yet seen.	And is exactly what we need to do now to free ourselves from a dependence on fossil fuels greenhouse gas emissions invest in the jobs and technologies of renewable energy that will allow us to meet our obligation and allow this country once again to claim its status as the indispensable nation.	Addressing the Green New Deal ORourke summoned his followers to harness the the most ingenious mechanism yet devised by humankind to free ourselves from a dependence on fossil fuels.	The mechanism Robert Francis is referring to is a democracy.	How does a man who under normal circumstances would be working as a barista in the local coffee shop dole out knowledge of experience on World War II to a Democrat party who eagerly laps it up?	False
CNN A new US government report delivers a dire warning about climate change and its devastating impacts saying the economy could lose hundreds of billions of dollars or in the worst case scenario more than 10 of its GDP by the end of the century.	Along the US coasts public infrastructure and 1 trillion in national wealth held in real estate are threatened by rising sea levels flooding and storm surges.	Farmers will face extremely tough times.	Almost half that rise has been since 1993 a rate of rise greater than during any century in the past 2800 years.	However it suggests that if the United States immediately reduced its fossil fuel use and greenhouse gas emissions it could save thousands of lives and generate billions of dollars in benefits for the country.	True
Its intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that youre talking about.	We dont go into policy but we provide the information for people who want to go further with that.	It basically diagnoses what is happening in the climate system Arndt said on a conference call.	According to the report the effect of long term global warming and a powerful El Nio early on pushed 2016 into record setting warmth.	Were scientists and were providing objective information Jessica Blunden a climate scientist at NOAAs National Climatic Data Center in Asheville N.C. told Yahoo News.	False
Its a climate crisisThat is why I support a Green New Deal.	People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices.	Ali points out an equity score is potentially significant because it helps put up a wall of protections around those communitiesaddingI think its just now starting to gather steam.	This systemic environmental injustice will only get worse and become more ingrained if climate and environmental policies like the Green New Deal do not specifically focus on lifting up these communities.	It does begin to answer one of the key questions around the Green New Deal debate which is how to include low income and communities of colorthe frontline voices facing the most dire effects of climate changein the legislative process.	False
Well have an economy based on wind.	Spewing.	Its our air their air everything right?	Wind now supplies clean and efficient power to the equivalent of 32 million American homes sustains 500 U.S. factories and delivers more than 1 billion a year in new revenue to rural communities and states Tom Kernan CEO of AWEA said in a statement.	Whether its in China Germany its going into the air.	True
Democratic Gov.	Its a long thorough piece of legislation that mandates carbon emission reductions across the states economy while accounting for job quality standards and economic equity.	The central provision of House Bill 2020 is to institute a cap and trade mechanism for carbon dioxide across the state a mechanism to cut emissions 45 percent below 1990 levels by 2035 and 80 percent by 2050.	Theres been incredible work going into that bill Courtney said.	Oregon has also been working on carbon pricing policies since 1997.	False
It is an international crisis.	The Amazon rain forest the lungs which produces 20 of our planets oxygen is on fire Macron wrote on Twitter.	This is the war we are facing.	On the question of burning in the Amazon which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money what is the intention?	Members of the G7 Summit lets discuss this emergency first order in two days Meanwhile a spokesperson for the Elyse Palace said that in light of Brazils attitude these recent weeks Macron can only conclude that President Bolsonaro lied to him during the Osaka Summit in June where world leaders agreed on the urgent need to combat climate change pollution and environmental destruction.	False
While much of the media and government is ensconced in creating division among political parties and ideologies its more important to avoid playing into alarmist rhetoric whichonly serves to encourage people throughanxiety and panic.	Instead of focusing on the apprehensionand divisiveness surrounding the causes of natural disasters its more important than ever that we maintain our humanity and come together tohelp one another.	In a hyper political environment pro climate change and anti climate change theory rhetoric serves only to distract from the real issue at hand the necessity of serving people impacted by natural disasters and the implementation ofstandardized response to these crises.	With the eastern seaboard still in the thick of hurricane season as well asthe most recent devastation caused by Category 5 Hurricane Maria which was said to cripple Dominica with widespread devastation en route to Puerto Rico and possibly the States its important to maintainlevelheaded perspective and communication on natural disasters while speakingtruth amidstapprehension.	In a new study economist and environmental analyst Nicholas Loris explained that climate change simply isnt responsible for Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.	True
Asked what he would like politicians to do for the Amazon he said that he would like economic alternatives for people here to find a way we can make use of the natural wealth we have here.	Aid worth 22m 18m was announced by Mr Macron at a summit in France of the seven leading industrial powers.	Mr Bolsonaro has previously said his government lacks the resources to fight the record number of fires in the Amazon region but his government is also being accused of slashing funding for environmental protection.	Earlier Brazilian ministers said the G7 money was not needed and they accused foreign powers of wanting control of the Amazon.	It spans a number of countries but the majority of it falls within Brazil.	True
That was quite a change in tune for a president who had previously described environmental protections as an impediment for economic growth and had blamed non governmental organizations of starting the fires.	As European leaders led by French President Emanuel Macron criticized Brazil for its inaction President Donald Trump waited until Friday evening to say that the United States was willing to help only to add that future trade prospects with Brazil are very exciting.	A military leader for example said that part of its mission involved creating a positive perception of the country.	Yet his tune appeared to change after leaders in Europe said a major trade deal could be at risk and many on social media started calling for a boycott of Brazilian products.	Much of the attention has focused on Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro a long time critic of the countrys environmental regulations who had tried to minimize the effects of the fires.	True
If WeWork employees want a burger while on business the money is coming out of their own pockets.	The companyestimates its no meat policy will save15507103 animals by 2023 according to Business Insider along with16.6 billion gallons of water and445.1 million pounds of carbon dioxide theheat trapping gas that alters Earth's climate.	The Motley Fool named it one of the top five most valuable startups in America.	The global workplace startup told employees this week that the company will ban employees from expensing meals that contain red meat pork or poultryBloomberg reported.	More As co working grows up niche spaces take center stage WeWork boasts 6000 employees worldwide according to Bloomberg.	True
For a very long time there has been this perception that Big Oil was too big to take on but here we are the smallest state taking on some of the biggest corporate polluters in the world Kilmartin said in a statement.	Kilmartin is seeking to force the companies to pay for damages associated with climate change citing the costs taxpayers were incurring to repair roads and bridges and rebuild coastal structures.	The lawsuit announced by Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Kilmartin was the first by a state seeking to hold oil companies responsible for costs associated with climate change and followed similar cases by several local governments nationally.	The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products.	The lawsuit contended that the companies sought to refute scientific findings regarding how greenhouse gas pollution was causing climate change and failed to prevent the harm that would result from consumers using fossil fuel products.	True
On a broader note Im confused.	It was because the infrastructure is falling apart.	The citys communist Mayor Bill de Blasio has run it into the ground with stupid financial decisions and misuse of funds.	In reality New York Citys subway system is a dumpster fire of mismanagement.	You see theyve got money to pay for illegal aliens healthcare but they cant keep the trains running or the sewage systems from backing up.	False
And secondly it majors on the economic impact in effect challenging the White House's insistence on prioritising economic growth over environmental regulation.	With continued growth in emissions at historic rates annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century more than the current gross domestic product GDP of many US states the report says.	Future risks from climate change depend... on decisions made today the 4th National Climate Assessment says.	This report is striking for two reasons.	It gives many specific examples overwhelmed dams in South Carolina failing crops in the parched Great Plains a rise in insect borne disease in Florida.	False
Thats the environmentalinjustice and racism that were dealing with and my plan would equip Americans with the tools tofight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what isright now a tremendous injustice he said.	We need to invest in these communities and their ability to withstand storms and other natural disasters and their ability to have something as simple as clean water or breathe clean air he said.	I think about poor communities along the east coast he said.	Theyre the ones who can least afford to deal with the climate crisis he said during the CNN town hall.	He said to pay for his plan he would create a carbon pollution fee on corporations who are industrial scale polluters.	False
In 2016 then Gov.	Thursdays announcement is part of a broader effort by the Trump administration to end a perceived war on coal waged by the Obama administration.	Coal ash in particular has long been a hot button issue in the utility industry.	They face contaminated drinking water toxic dust in the air and serious health threats just because the EPA is choosing to side with polluters over the public.	In 2014 Duke Energy one of the countrys biggest power companies spilled nearly 39000 tons of coal ash into the Dan River causing one of North Carolinas biggest environmental disasters in its history.	True
And the fact of the matter is that what we talk about is what are we going to do about those corporations?	Im also like actively doing something to try to combat this climate crisis as it stands.	But we have to we can fundamentally change things in the next 10 years though so that we set a path?	How can we trust that youre going to act on climate on the climate crisis if youre still attending fundraisers that fossil fuel executives are attending?	Beaulieuasked according to the Daily Mail.	True
And coal consumption is at its lowest level since 1979.	Yet coal plants are closing everywhere and no new ones are even on the drawing board.	With energy demand projected to stay level that means its coal thats going to yield.	As weve pointed out over and over again the coal industry in the United States has been floundering for years and theres little Trump can do to stop it.	Meanwhile coal mining jobs have cratered from a high of more than 800000 in the 1920s to roughly 76000 today.	True
The New Deal.	And what preceded World War II?	Yet IPCC report authorsframedthis as a problem of political will not economics and technology.	Ocasio Cortez nowwants a Green New Dealto move the U.S. away from fossil fuels and address a variety of injustices she sees in our current economic system.	Themost widely reported climate studyin 2018warned we were on track for a hothouse Earth.	True
Over and over again the Trump administration has put the profits of multinational polluters over the health and well being of everyday Americans said Eric Schneiderman New Yorks attorney general.	In its first year in office the Trump administration introduced a solitary new environmental rule aimed at protecting the public from pollution.	The reversal of Obamas environmental legacy has been spearheaded by Scott Pruitt who heads the EPA the agency he repeatedly sued as Oklahoma attorney general.	This apparent change of heart followed legal action filed by green groups part of a cascade of courtroom standoffs that are starting to slow and even reverse the Trump administrations blitzkrieg of environmental regulations.	Other arms of the federal government have also been stymied from implementing Trumps deregulatory agenda.	True
But where does Buttigieg stand when it comes to implementing an economy wide plan?	This is not about taking money out of the economy he said.	First A carbon tax and dividend.	As well as the fact that we as a country need a project and climate change is as good a one as well ever have.	His pitch sounds like a revenue neutral carbon tax a fee on pollution that gets returned to taxpayers every year instead of going toward a climate resiliency fund or a green project.	True
Wheeler dismissed thereportthis month that found U.S. emissions rose 3.4 percent last year blaming the jump on a manufacturing and industrial surge triggered by the Trump administrations deregulatory effort.	2 job Wheeler said he believed that man has an impact on the climate but whats not completely understood is what the impact is.	In October the United Nations released a landmark determination that the world has until 2030 to halve global emissions or face catastrophic climate change.	A month later the federal governments National Climate Assessment a congressionally mandated report issued by 13 agencies including the EPA confirmed the findings and warned of cataclysmic damage to the United States economy and human health and by 9F 5C or more by the end of this century.	It was a brazen if not unexpected stance from the nominee to become the EPAs 15th administrator.	False
Violent crimeincluding dangerous gangs over crowded schools the appearance of diseases once vanquished from the western world escalating hospital costs and an overwhelming demand for government services!	The source illegal immigrants.	These are the new problems being faced by small cash strapped cities and towns all across America.	Because of the collapse of communism because the wall has come down because the Soviet Union is no more...the environmental movement is the last refuge of people who favor government over people he said.	No wonder the environmental message has became the cause of choice for the elitists of Hollywood.	True
For generations weve agreed that there are some places so special that they should be protected for visitors to enjoy away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life.	But this announcement disregards well established policies for how visitors can enjoyably and safely experience the backcountry in national parks said Kristen Brengel senior vice president at the National Parks Conservation Association.	Mounting backlog Crumbling national parks Congress looks to hike funds for repairs after years of neglect In making the announcement the NPS touted the environmental effects of the new policy saying the e bikes can reduce greenhouse gas emissionswhen used as an alternative to cars and motorcycles and improve poor air quality at national parks by reducing traffic congestion.	Park visitors posting in June before the policy was announced on the independent National Parks Traveler web siteexpressed mixed opinions on the expanded use of the electronic bikes.	An e bike is classified asa two or three wheeled cycle with fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts 1 h.p.	False
means that its safer than ever to transport oil by pipeline.	These facts received little coverage the media instead portraying a David and Goliath fight in which virtuous protesters took on a corrupt wealthy industry.	The Fraser Institute a Canadian free market think tank analyzed U.S. State Department data finding that 70 percent of spills that have occurred in North America were a cubic meter or less hardly the massive leakage environmentalists have implied.	Writing in the Guardian opinionist Julian Brave NoiseCat said that the leak demonstrates the risk of technological and human failure inherent in crude oil pipelines adding that indigenous communities ranchers and workers are forced to live under the constant threat of petroleum poisoning.	Somewhere somehow the vile stuff gets out and when it does it causes untold damage to the environment.	True
Chinas Paris accord pledge however has been criticized by experts who saw it as nothing more than promising to continue current economic trends.	WRI played a role in the Paris Agreement negotiations in 2015 and praised China for its pledge to cut greenhouse gas emissions.	Given WRIs close ties to the Chinese government its emphasis on cultivating contacts with various U.S. officials is particularly disconcerting in light of the government partnerships and environmental initiatives involving WRI during the Obama Administration they wrote.	WRI opposed President Donald Trumps decision to leave the Paris accord in 2017 in a statement that also praised China for committing to the climate agreement.	WRI leadership regularly interacts with senior Chinese government and Communist party officials and provides public support for Chinese environmental programs Bishop and Westerman wrote.While WRI criticizes policies of the U.S. government WRI is silent on Chinese human rights violations such as arrests of environmental protesters and the mass detention of ethnic minorities.	False
PARIS AGREEMENT ON CLIMATE CHANGE WASHINGTON REACTS TO US PULLOUT The Paris accord will undermine our economy Trump said during the announcement in the White House Rose Garden.	We are in the middle of a clean energy revolution that no single person or group can stop.	President Trumps decision is profoundly in conflict with what the majority of Americans want from our president but no matter what he does we will ensure that our inevitable transition to a clean energy economy continues.	Under the terms of the deal the U.S. the worlds second largest emitter of carbon would be required to reduce fossil fuel emissions around 30 percent by 2025.	It undermines Americas standing in the world and threatens to damage humanitys ability to solve the climate crisis in time.	True
A strong clean energy economy combats climate change while creating good jobs and a healthy environment said Cooper.	North Carolina Democratic Gov.	With historic storms lashing our state we must combat climate change make our state more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters.	Coopers order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles use more wind and solar energy and cut energy use at state owned buildings.	For example the Obama administrations pledge to cut U.S. emissions 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 was only projected toavert 0.001 degrees Celsius of projected global warminga year.	True
In the late 1990sa crusading attorneysued E.I.	There is enough data to take action.	du Pont de Nemours and Co. over a massive contamination in Parkersburg West Virginia that killed livestock and sickened and deformed many residents in the rural Appalachian community that surrounded the chemical companys plant.	Yet the chemicals remain unregulated at the federal level.	The announcement came as the EPA published its proposal to gut the Waters of the U.S. rule which extended protections to streams and wetlands that feed the drinking water of 117 million Americans.	False
A coal fired power plant in central Poland.	Economic costs associated with such disasters are mounting.	In the U.S. President Trump has threatened to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and his administration has moved to allow greater emissions from power plants vehicles and oil and gas operations.	We face a direct existential threat.	China and the U.S. are the top greenhouse gas emitters in the world and their cooperation was the crucial foundation for the Paris Agreement.	True
All three are equally important to human wellbeing.	Brexit could give the UK greater flexibility on how to spend public money on farming enabling much more leeway to reward farmers for capturing carbon in the earth.	Only 3 of the planet's surface is suitable for arable production and 75 billion tonnes of fertile soil is lost to land degradation every year.	In the US some soils are being restored as forests take over poor quality land previously worked by small farmers but others are still being degraded.	The UK is not immune either.	True
And I think it's important that as we come together as a country we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response that we are adapting properly.	The only way we become resilient as a nation is we have to create that true culture of preparedness among our citizenry which we do not have and then we also have to look how we move forward when it comes to infrastructure protection.	Last year was the Earth's warmest recorded year the third year in a row to set a new record for global average temperatures.	We live in a changing world and as the FEMA administrator said we always have to look at not just the response but the preparedness and the resilience said Duke.	Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget said climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media.	True
The article detailed aU.N.	Climate Action Summit on Sept. 23an event that promises to spark the transformation that is urgently needed and propel action that will benefit everyone.	The dire predictions often repeated inthe media warned of a variety of impending disasters famine drought an ice age and even disappearing nations if the world failed to act on climate change.	In 2008 ABC released an ominous video about what the world would look like in 2015.	But short term predictions weren't a laughing matter in the years following An Inconvenient Truth a documentary produced by former Vice President Al Gore.	True
I spend 99 of my life travelling the world by commercial he said.	At the launch of Travalyst aimed at encouraging the tourism industry to become more sustainable the duke was asked about his travel behaviour.	We have to connect people to where that little bit of extra money is actually going.	The money is then invested in environmental projects such as planting trees or installing solar panels which reduce carbon dioxide in the air by the same amount.	He hopes it will improve conservation environmental protection and help increase the economic benefits of tourism for local communities.	False
Instead the administration says the plan rule instead empowers states promotes energy independence and facilitates economic growth and job creation the release stated.	But it's unclear how much the industry can benefit as it faces competition from cheap natural gas and renewable sources.	We are gathered here today because the American public elected a president with a better approach EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said Wednesday.	EPA sets the best system of emission reductions and then states set the standards of performance.	Former President Barack Obama's plan if implemented would have prevented 3600 premature deaths a year 1700 heart attacks and 90000 asthma attacks according to analysis conducted by the EPA under his tenure.	True
The Democratic Party has long been dogged by tensions between environmentalists clamoring for action on climate change and labor leaders warning against policies that ostracize the fossil fuel industry which provides high paid construction jobs.	Young people and Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma.	That mirrors the Trump administrations aggressive efforts to unwind the few relatively weak climate regulations that exist and to upend fragile negotiations at the 24th Conference of the Parties in Katowice Poland where diplomats this week are struggling to garner support for basic resolutions recognizing the scientific consensus on global warming.	Thats not the only issue for which the Green New Deal would provide a fix.	Nearly four years later the White House is promoting the same brand of denialism and fealty to the fossil fuel industry at the United Nations climate conference in Poland.	False
A third principle a just transition for fossil fuel workers so that no one is left behind and so we show respect and gratitude for all the work they've done to power economy is the decades past.	It's aimed a transforming the American economy by ending its dependence on fossil fuels investing heavily in renewable energy like solar and wind and sparking large scale job creation.	Second principle is let's create tens of millions of jobs as we renovate our energy economy he said Tuesday.	The resolution introduced by Ocasio Cortez and Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey a Democrat is broad and light on specifics and seen more as a roadmap for overhauling the economy than a concrete piece of legislation.	Its aspirational goals will help our country combat climate change through clean and renewable energy create millions of new jobs in the process and safeguard our environment for generations to come.	True
On Thursday night President Donald Trump smeared the Green New Deal as an extreme 100 trillion government takeover at a rally in Michigan leading the crowd in chants of AOC sucks.	For years positions in the debate over mainstream climate policies ranged from hard line denial of climate change on one end to moderate market tweaks on the other.	On Wednesday conservatives leading voice of reason on climate change published a widely shared essay that offered talking points to oppose the Green New Deal without invoking hamburger bans Stalinism or genocide.	What Im tired of is us worrying more about the future of fossil fuels than worry about the future of fossil fuel workers.	Ocasio Cortez said that was one reason the Green New Deal movement could not abandon its class politics to secure support from avowedly pro business conservatives.	False
And when it gets hotter our thermostats turn lower and the cycle continues.	In 2012 a heat kink caused a 32 car long freight train to derail and fly off an overpass a similar derailment happened in 2017.	Asphalt warps and melts.	But it goes further than just an ever hotter summer season the emissions from air conditioners and their refrigerants is contributing to climate change.	Extreme heat makes pollution worse which can be dangerous for the very young the elderly and anyone with respiratory diseases.	True
Corporate America is also moving on its own.	This is a worldwide issue and solving it will take cooperation from countries like China and India.	It's setting up coalitions of companies and lobbying Congress for new action on climate change.	That means placing some kind of price on carbon.	Tap into growing public sentiment and work with corporations States and cities are addressing climate change be it with zero emission vehicle goals or the regional cooperative of states in the Northeast that is trying to cap and reduce carbon emissions on its own.	True
Its especially important that wealthy countries take the lead on the issue.	Obama massively boosted the American renewables industry via the 2009 stimulus helped negotiate the Paris Climate Accord and implemented the Clean Power Plan to cut emissions from US power plants.	Its a paradigmatic example of the limits of nationalism and the need for organizations like the UN and EU.	Its a global issue that no one country can solve on its own it requires collective action negotiated through some forum like the Paris Climate Agreement.	Large population centers like the United States Brazil and the EU as a bloc are responsible for a major chunk of emissions.	True
The other from 2007 discussed how to survive global warming.	This climate denier for example	In 2007 Time published a cover story titled The Global Warming Survival Guide.	One published by Newsweek is a favorite of climate deniers.	Scientists have since reached an overwhelming consensus The planet is getting warmer and humans are to blame.	False
President Donald Trump has called climate change a hoax and a very expensive tax on American businesses that make the US less competitive.	So what would a 10 foot rise in sea levels mean for Florida?	Last summer the Guardian investigated Trumps coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels.	And yet climate change is already imperiling Mar a Lago the crown jewel of Trumps extensive real estate portfolio and his preferred location for carrying out many of his official presidential duties.	In this scenario wed see a 10 to 12 foot rise in sea level in the US by 2100 which would have dramatic consequences for places like Mar a Lago as you can see in the photo above.	False
Still Mr. Castro said its actually what comes next that is most important saying he would impose a fee on carbon pollution enact an executive order prohibiting fossil fuel exploration and development on public lands and spend 10 trillion over 10 years to reach net zero emissions by 2045.	Calling climate change an existential threat a phrase that is sure to come up several more times tonight Mr. Castro said his first move as president would be to rejoin the Paris Climate Accord.	When I was mayor of San Antonio I did believe that there were opportunities to be had with fracking that was going on in South Texas.	An activist from the Sunrise Movement a liberal environmental group asked Mr. Castro why he should be trusted to move the country away from fossil fuels when he supported fracking.	Julin Castro the first 2020 Democratic presidential candidate at the CNN climate town hall set the tone early in the night by giving a shout out to Gov.	True
They met with leaders from the seven democracies with the worlds most developed economies Canada France Germany Italy Japan the United Kingdom and the United States.	Amid talk of combating terrorism and the global economy they also discussed international efforts to fight climate change.	Bush in the early 90s.	We tried to explain that to Mr. Trump in Taormina in clear German sentences.	European Commission President Jean Claude Juncker said President Trump doesnt seem to understand that he cant immediately yank the United States out of the Paris Agreement on climate change.	True
Thanks to President Trumps regulatory reform agenda the economy is booming energy production is surging and we are reducing greenhouse gas emissions from major industrial sources EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler said at the time.	The largest increase that year came from China.	These achievements flow largely from technological breakthroughs in the private sector not the heavy hand of government.	Today the Chinese account for 30 percent of global emissions.	Meanwhile as the West looks at options to combat climate change we all know that Chinas global emissions continue to rise.	False
The declarations signers insisted that public policy must respect scientific and economic realities and not just reflect the most fashionable trend of the day.	Scientists should openly address the uncertainties and exaggerations in their predictions of global warming while politicians should dispassionately count the real benefits as well as the imagined costs of adaptation to global warming and the real costs as well as the imagined benefits of mitigation.	There is no climate emergency.	Current sea temperatures combined with a weather system over the north Atlantic suggest that a freezing vortex of Arctic air could hit the country later this month Yahoos Victoria Bell reported.	Climate science should be less political while climate policies should be more scientific the declaration stated.	True
The EPA can repeal the Clean Power Plan but not the laws of economics Bloomberg tweeted.	As much as we want to see progress made with clean air and clean water with an understanding that we can also grow jobs we have to do so within the framework of what Congress has passed Pruitt said.	It is a key element in continuing the progress moving toward clean energy and retiring coal.	Former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg whose philanthropy said it would donate 15 million toward supporting operations of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change after the Trump administration announced intentions to withdraw from the Paris climate accord tweeted his criticism of the repeal proposal Monday.	This won't revive coal or stop the US from reaching our Paris goal.	False
Climate is your closet wardrobe.	Guess were at casual tornadoes in growing regions of the country?	The point of the Green New Deal isnt necessarily to save the world but to push socialistic standards for America in everything from how we travel to how we farm.	The climate crisis is real yall Ocasio said on Instagram.	However everyone from economists to climate scientists to Democrat politicians have called the Green New Deal a foolish venture and after having reviewed it personally I can say its a piece of legislation thats really only good enough for kindling.	False
We have to think about the whole world.	So whats your plan for a Blue New Deal for those of us working on the oceans?	Coasts face unbelievable change.	Were trying to step into this void because most of the climate plans are really focused on the big manufacturing and industrial emitters and the big terrestrial sources of pollution said Jason Scorse director of the Center for the Blue Economy at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies and any early crafter of the Blue New Deal approach.	Its not all related to climate and carbon but those are amplifying and accelerating those changes at every level from coastal infrastructure to fishery conservation said Brad Warren executive director at the National Fisheries Conservation Center.	True
Evidence since enactment of the Energy Independence and Security Act suggests an increase in acreage planted with soybeans and corn with strong indications from observed changes in land use that some of this increase is a consequence of increased biofuel production read a portion of the 159 page report.	Essentially the study found that biofuel mandates are boosting production of corn and soybeans.	An extensive report from the Environmental Protection Agency found that including ethanol into the U.S. gas supply is wreaking havoc on the atmosphere and soil.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The ethanol mandate has negatively effected water quality with greater biofuel production resulting in more harmful algae blooms and hypoxia.	True
economy thefossil fuel industry runs thiseconomy it'screated all of thiswealth revolutionizedtransportation communications industry lifted people out of poverty Watters said.	You have a 21 trillionU.S.	Beto who'sdone nothingexcept lose to Sen. Ted Cruz R Texascomesup and says I'm going to take 5 trillion and I'm going to reverse everything and change it all.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP He went on to speculate that O'Rourke pushed his climate plan because he felt guilty about the American economy's success because he and other liberals have not had enough input in it.	OCASIO CORTEZ CALLS CLIMATE CHANGE OUR 'WORLD WAR II' WARNS THE WORLD WILL END IN 12 YEARS So whenever those two things come in contrast or in opposition I'm always going to choose the people of this country.	False
It is good economics.	In short good economics calls for the type of broad federal spending on clean innovation that the Green New Deal promises to deliver.	Zachary Liscow is an economist and a professor at Yale Law School who has served on the staff of the White House Council of Economic Advisors.	The Green New Deal pushes climate policy into uncharted political waters but it does so based on sound economic theories.	While the Green New Deal will not be cheap its price pales in comparison to the damage that unchecked climate change will inflict on the economy.	True
Under Trump the fossil fuel industry has wielded unusual influence over the agency that supposedly regulates it and beleaguered staff fret that its public health mission is at risk of being buried.	Now that he is in the role he said he didnt covet he will be tasked with completing the job of dismantling environmental and climate regulations.	Scott Pruitt was the most scandal plagued cabinet member in an administration rife with corruption said Christy Goldfuss an environment advisor to Obama who is now at the Center for American Progress.	Congress must ensure the next EPA administrator is not another industry insider.	Pruitts attempt to halt restrictions on emissions of methane a powerful greenhouse gas was stymied by the courts as were proposed delays to stricter limits of lead in paint and hazy ozone in urban areas.	True
This way it actually stimulates the economy Hansen said.	If its a tax taken by the government it makes the government bigger and it depresses the economy.	suggest 55 per ton yields a dividend of 1000 per legal resident and 3000 for a family with two or more children with one half share for each child a maximum of two half shares per family.	That could be done in a simple way by collecting a fee from the fossil fuel companies that would gradually rise over timea carbon fee and dividend.	According to the group which is led by former Secretaries of State James Baker III and George Shultz and former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson their plan would tax fossil fuel companies and redistribute the funds back to Americans in equal portions thereby artificially raising the price of fossil fuels and making renewable energy sources more competitive.	True
We need systemic change.	Well gather on the Southeast lawn of the Capitol to eulogize and mourn all that has been lost and all that is threatened by the climate crisis the events description reads.	Climate change activists across the globe opted to protest what they consider a climate crisis on the biggest shopping day of the year disrupting shoppers at the Water Tower Place shopping mall in Chicago Illinois and holding a Black Friday Funeral For Future in the nations capital Warren emphatically expressed her support for their efforts.	Jay Inslees D climate change proposals in recent months.	Congress has been feeding our fossil fuel addiction Graham added.	False
It called for the decarbonization of the economy and100 percent clean energy over the next decade.	Im perfectly willing to take on giant corporations.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	Its a danger to the air we breathe.	When we are in the White House we will end the era of fossil fuels and that includes fracking Ten Democrat candidates participated in CNNs seven hour climate change town hall Wednesday and manysignaled support for the implementation of a carbon tax as well as plastic straw bans actions on meat consumption and the end of fracking.	True
President Donald Trump told the American Energy Alliance in a survey taken during the campaign that he opposed a carbon tax and the Obama administrations social cost of carbon estimate.	Trump signed an executive order in late March rescinding the Obama administrations social cost of carbon estimate.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	As we have said many times the Presidents team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the Presidents plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986 deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters said in a statement responding to WaPosstory.	CLC says the tax could replace federal regulations and the revenues could be given back to Americans in the form of dividends.	False
'The United States is one of the best in the world at doing this we want to continue to do that but right now the administration is focused on the recovery and the relief efforts and as Tom Bossert said a few minutes ago we'll look at that analysis once we get through the coming days and focus on the recovery and relief and saving life effort' Huckabee Sanders added.	'Not the cause of it but the things that we observe.'	'I'm not sure specifically on the Paris climate deal but as he said at the time the goal is to always do the very best when taking care of the environment and taking proper steps' Huckabee Sanders replied.	In June he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate accord.	In the past Trump has suggested climate change was a hoax created by the Chinese to choke American industry.	True
I believe the climate is changing.	Plans include raising coastal infrastructure protecting vulnerable supply chains and increasing disaster training.	It also shows that the military is on the front lines of the consequences of rising temperatures.	Every building has severe damage.	However Lengyel waffled on humanitys role in shaping the climate behind these storms.	False
Next to the putrid mix stood a stainless steel tank full of in a sense money all in the form of decaying rotting food.	That amount of food could feed 19 million people.	But in the booming city of Rio de Janeiro a luxury hotel has been turning trash into treasure for more than a decade long before food waste was at the forefront of anyone's mind.	In Brazil food safety regulations prevent restaurants from giving away food yet 52 million Brazilians are still threatened by food insecurity according to 2014 research by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics.	Still the hotel expects the project to break even in about four years.	False
Jansen pointed out that the Southern Ocean around Antarctica plays a key role in ocean circulation due to the deep waters in the region leading it to have outsized consequences.	It likely stems from an asteroid impact that rocked the Northern Hemisphere and led to the Younger Dryas climate event.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	Upside down rivers of warm ocean water may be one of the causes of Antarctica's ice shelves breaking up leading to a rise in sea levels.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	True
Go and explain to developing countries why they should continue living in poverty and not be like Sweden.	No one has explained to Greta that the modern world is complex and different and ... people in Africa or in many Asian countries want to live at the same wealth level as in Sweden.	Climate change is an issue which is strongly related to security and peace.	In her UN speech Greta blasted governments for thinking only of money as she said the world was sleepwalking into a climate catastrophe.	She raged People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing we are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and the fairy tale of endless economic growth.	False
Follow him at This story has been corrected to show the percentage of coal jobs created under Trump was 4 percent.	This doesn't immediately bring everything back but we think it stops further decline of coal fired plants in the United States and that means there will still be some market here.	He put America first and said to the rest of the world we are going to say no and exit the Paris Accord.	Trump is not just ignoring the deadly cost of pollution he's ignoring the clean energy deployment that is rapidly creating jobs across the country said Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club.	The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants.	True
That is my position.	Are we going to stop oil and gas development because of this report?	Neither Bernhardt nor the U.S.	Still the Trump administration has barreled ahead with its fossil fuel centric energy dominance agenda.Approximately one quarter of all U.S. greenhouse gas emissions come from fossil fuel extraction on federal lands according to agovernment report released by the Trump administration in November.	If you have a view on what you want to happen well carry it out when you execute it.	False
It can be summed up in one word confusion.	The premise was that the industrial economies were most responsible for the greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and that developing countries needed to continue using fossil fuels for the immediate future to grow their economies.	Other history contradicts the idea that the United States signed onto an out of balance deal.	Then came the election of Donald Trump.	As international leaders gathered in New York for this weeks meeting of the United Nations General Assembly they got another taste of the Trump Administrations leadership style.	True
The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	And its these three things wealth growth and technology which allows humans to thrive on planet Earth not 240 per gallon fuel taxes imposed by an elite that cares not for the masses.	The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	Here were told that the U.S. economy will take a 10 hit by 2100 unless we reduce our carbon emissions.	The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed.	True
Trump did not mention rising temperatures or extreme weather although he did tout the countrys status as the top producer of oil and gas and boast about how quickly his officials have moved to cut regulations.	How can a president of the United States give a State of the Union speech and not mention not one word about climate change when the leading scientists of the world tell us that climate change is real that climate change is caused by human activity that climate change is already causing devastating harm in the United States Sanders said.	The Massachusetts senator Ed Markey attended with the head of the youth led Sunrise Movement Varshini Prakash who is calling for a Green New Deal to tackle inequality and quickly cut greenhouse gas emissions.	In 10 years Clement said climate change will be central to all policy discussions as one of the top three or four issues in the world Clement said.	Lisa Graumlich the dean of the environment college at the University of Washington attended the State of the Union address as a guest of the Washington congresswoman Pramila Jayapal.	False
Pouring toxic waste into rivers filling the air with noxious fumes polluting forests and open countrysidethese are signs of a war on the environment and sadly they can still be found in certain nations.	The essay by Nathan Schneider appearing in the May 31 issue of America titled Trumps war on the environment is a war on the young and the unborn makes the incredible case that withdrawing from the Paris agreement constitutes a war on future generations tantamount to genocide.	The fact that a president keeps his promises is usually considered a good thing.	During his presidential campaign Donald Trump promised Americans that if elected he would make the United States energy independent and get out of the Paris climate deal.	That doesnt put them at war with the environment and much less at war with the young and the unborn.	False
The report looked at pollution levels from 2014 to 2016.	With this report the Lung Association also calls out Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency EPA for ongoing threats to the nations air quality including steps to roll back or weaken enforcement of the Clean Air Act.	California should be called the Smoggy State.	Overall the report said about133 million Americans more than four of 10 live with unhealthful levels of air pollution placing them at risk for premature death and other serious health effects such as lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	Bakersfield Calif. wasin second place for ozone pollution.	False
The scientists looked at how the humble caridean shrimp has evolved and diversified since it first appeared in the Lower Jurassic.	Humans are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of species not seen since the demise of the dinosaurs British scientists warned.	But global warming and rising sea levels threatened to wipe out many species that cannot adapt to change quickly enough in a blink of an eye.	Professor of Evolutionary Paleobiology Matthew Wills at the Milner Centre for Evolution at the University of Bath said We are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of a magnitude unparalleled since the asteroid impact that wiped out the dinosaurs.	Diversity takes millions of years to evolve but can be damaged in the blink of an eye.	False
The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate.	As relief they want the government to pursue policies to keep warming in check.	Ann Carlson a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests theres something there that piques the courts interest.	Asked for comment the Department of Justice pointed to comments made by Jeffrey Wood a political appointee at the DOJ handling environmental cases who spoke about the Juliana case at a law conference last week.	In our view the Oregon lawsuit is an unconstitutional attempt to use a single court to control the entire nations energy and climate policy Wood said adding the plaintiffs in Oregon are ignoring the fact that clean and responsible production and use of fossil fuels remains vital to the health and well being of the American people.	False
We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future?	CNN Republican Florida Gov.	Climate change will be a part of his office's mission.	Since day one my administration has been laser focused on addressing our pressing environmental challenges.	It also created the chief science officer position.	False
The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed.	Just last month a series of deadly earthquakes struck the Indonesian island of Lombok.	You can also contact us in the following ways	A 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia.	Have you been affected by the earthquake?	False
From there it can be shipped to the Gulf Coast and potentially lucrative markets abroad.	It has the capacity to move half of the oil produced daily in North Dakota the nations second leading producer behind Texas.	Todays decision is a disappointing continuation of a historic pattern Other people get all the profits and the tribes get all the risk and harm said Jan Hasselman an Earthjustice attorney representing the tribe in an ongoing federal lawsuit through which Standing Rock and three other tribes still hope to shut down the pipeline.	The 3.8 billion pipeline built by Texas based Energy Transfer Partners has been operating since June 1 moving oil from North Dakota through South Dakota and Iowa to a distribution point in Illinois.	Energy industry officials applauded Boasbergs ruling with North Dakota Petroleum Council President Ron Ness calling the pipeline a critical part of American energy infrastructure.	False
They say the president favours development over conservation.	Who is Brazil's new leader Jair Bolsonaro?	Scientists say the Amazon has suffered losses at an accelerated rate since Mr Bolsonaro took office in January.	As the largest rainforest in the world the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming.	Deforestation of Brazil's Amazon rainforest increased by 29.5 in 12 months the highest rate since 2008 the country's space agency reports.	False
He told the conference over lunch our government should work for you according to organizers You can debate what Zinke meant by work for you but many heard it as a pledge of allegiance to the industry.	This means conservation preserving culture and facilitating recreation.	And then that evening Zinkes official Twitter account went into damage control mode implying the message was meant for a broader audience rather than just the industries hes supposed to regulate.	President Donald Trumps trade war is already threatening to undo gains for the fossil fuel industry as China readies tariffs on US energy.	We should be in the business of being a partner.	False
President Donald Trump promised to lessen regulations on coal mines to put miners back to work.	Its the latest move by the Trump administration to ease the regulatory burden on the coal industry.	UWAG argues the regulation will cause negative impacts on jobs due to the excessive costs of compliance which were grossly underestimated by EPA and regulatory burdens forcing plant closures.	Trump claimed he wanted EPA to go back to basics and focus on clean air and water in his Administration but one of the first actions by his EPA Administrator is an attempt to gut an important water pollution safeguard Hitt said.	Pruitt was responding to a petition sent by the Utility Water Action Group UWAG urging the Trump administration to rescind its Effluent Limitations Guidelines for coal fired power plants.	False
Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because climate change is an issue that affects every other issue agriculture the economy including tourism.	Kim Ross ReThink Energy Florida leader resident witnessed people in her communityinTallahasseefeeling helpless after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster which damaged Gulf Coast ecosystems.	Sea level rise and warming temperatures threaten cities like Miami.	This is something thats happening now and needs to be addressed now.	Climate change and fossil fuels have already disturbed the daily lives of Floridians.	False
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In his statement Monday however Pompeo maintained that the United States was on the right track both economically and environmentally.	This includes 440000 fewer manufacturing jobs not what we need believe me this is not what we need including automobile jobs and the further decimation of vital American industries on which countless communities rely.	U.S. net greenhouse gas emissions dropped 13 percent from 2005 2017 even as our economy grew over 19 percent.	Now we find ourselves celebrating an agreement where the worlds largest carbon emitter China is permitted to increase their emissions until 2025 and to continue bringing a coal fired power plant online every 10 days.	By withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement to double down on a coal fossil fuel energy agenda Trump has engaged in a unilateral disarmament in the economic arms race that is the transition to clean energy said Michael Mann a climate scientist and professor at Penn State University.	False
California Democratic Gov.	This has to do with active forest management.	This has nothing to do with climate change.	Combined with drought insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality the op ed continues.	Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke began advocating similar policy prescriptions earlier in 2018 after President Donald Trump blamed Californias bad environmental laws for creating a wildfire prone environment.RELATED Trump Administration Is Taking Its Fight Against Bad Environmental Laws Straight To California California forests have grown drier and less healthy from overcrowded trees infestations of bark beetles and the effects of climate change the LA Timeswrites.	False
Ocasio Cortez said in a statement that the plan will create unprecedented levels of prosperity and wealth for all while ensuring economic and environmental justice and security.	She also cites Franklin D. Roosevelts New Deal Lyndon B. Johnsons Great Society and the interstate highway system begun under Dwight D. Eisenhower as examples of American know how and capability.	The Green New Deal would be paid for the same way we paid for the original New Deal World War II the bank bailouts tax cuts for the rich and decades of war with public money appropriated by Congress Ocasio Cortez said.	WASHINGTON AP Democrats including Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez of New York are calling for a Green New Deal intended to transform the U.S. economy to combat climate change and create thousands of jobs in renewable energy.	She calls for a World War II scale mobilization that includes high quality education and health care clean air and water and safe affordable housing.	False
We have the ability to prevent even worse sea level rise and and even worse catastrophes that are also caused by the climate crisis Gore said.	Tangier Island gained national prominence after Trump called Eskridge in response to a CNN piece on the town.	Earth to warm 2 degrees Celsius by the end of this century studies say Gore said he was aware of the town's situation and said the town was losing ground to rising seas.	After some delay Trump announced in the Rose Garden in June that he intended to pull the United States out of the climate agreement.	We still have the ability to slow it down.	False
Experts say the answer lies in their herd like behaviour.	While the exact reasons remain unclear experts say many different factors could play a part.	While Dr Stockin says that global warming may be playing apart in the rising sea temperatures most experts say that it's important not to jump to conclusions about the role of humans in these cases.	So what could be behind these cases?	It means that if one pilot whale encounters a problem then it can have an impact on the entire group.	False
The trains are still coming and new fossil fuel projects are still being proposed were in the midst of a worldwide climate emergency and were fighting back.	Its time for the people to step up to resolve this crisis before we run out of time.	Railroads engage in interstate commerce which means the buck stops with the federal government.	Ultimately Shut Down Fossil Fuels is calling for an end to oil trains oil terminals and all fossil fuels.	Our community and our planet are under attack yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate.	False
It said global warming would disproportionately hurt the poor broadly undermine human health damage infrastructure limit the availability of water alter coastlines and boost costs in industries from farming to energy production.	With continued growth in emissions at historic rates annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century more than the current gross domestic product GDP of many U.S. states according to the report.	The studies clash with policy under President Donald Trump who has been rolling back Obama era environmental and climate protections to maximize production of domestic fossil fuels including crude oil already the highest in the world above Saudi Arabia and Russia.	Reuters Climate change will cost the U.S. economy hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century damaging everything from human health to infrastructure and agricultural production according to a government report issued on Friday.	Previous research including from U.S. government scientists has also concluded that climate change could have severe economic consequences including damage to infrastructure water supplies and agriculture.	False
At around the same time his campaign cautioned voters not to turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines an ironic coincidence or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event?	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	Not sure after tonight who has less time to live Biden or the planet said one.	Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding commented another.	Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audiences eyes at the climate change town hall literally as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half truths and excuses.	False
The United States is still reeling from last years megadisasters.	The damages from the hurricanes heat waves wildfires and tornadoes in 2017 cost at least 306 billion.	President Trump wants the United States to back out of the Paris climate agreement and the EPA is working to undo the main policy for restricting greenhouse gases the Clean Power Plan.	The recent personnel shake up across the federal government doesnt bode well for the fight against climate change either.	And former White House adviser George David Banks who suggested that Trump could rejoin the Paris agreement resigned last month after he failed to get a security clearance due to past marijuana use.	False
President Donald Trump who in 2017 yanked the U.S. out of the Paris Accord on climate changecontinues to doubt the science and says radical action would only hurt the economy.	The shift from 'future problem'to 'now crisis'is being fueled by blockbuster scientific reports and blockbuster real world catastrophes.	A carbon tax is the most market oriented nonbureaucratic efficient way I can see to kill off coal.	That is rapidly changing how Americans think about it David Doniger with the Natural Resources Defense Council wrote in a recent blog.	Climate change is here and now.	False
This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you me and the whole world.	Dozens of countries have extraordinary tropical forests but three stand out Brazil Indonesia and the Democratic Republic of Congo.	Dozens of countries have extraordinary tropical forests but three stand out Brazil Indonesia and the Democratic Republic of Congo.	We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster not just locally but globally.	False
Steyer then shifted focus to cleaning up the air and water in the black and brown communities where our pollution is concentrated and claimed it would create millions of middle class union jobs.	I know that we have to deal with this crisis.	I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice.	Democrat presidential candidate and billionaire Tom Steyer once again vowed to declare a state of emergency over the climate crisis America faces during the sixth Democrat presidential debate at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles California.	Steyer also called on Mayor Pete Buttigieg another Democrat presidential hopeful to put more emphasis on climate change saying the people in his generation understand that this is a crisis that we have to go on right now and reinvent America.	False
For the White House bolstering the coal industry seems to trump these other matters.	Which means that the White Houses move to repeal the Clean Power Plan is a one two punch to human health and the environment said Georges Benjamin executive director of the American Public Health Association.	According to the Global Burden of Disease project more than 5 million people die worldwide each year because of air pollution and emissions from coal fired plants are a major risk factor here.	The Clean Power Plan in other words though never implemented was a big win for health.	Pruitt wants to repeal Obamas Clean Power Plan the signature Environmental Protection Agency policy that aims to cut emissions from existing US power plants a big driver of climate change 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030.	False
It's made us more sustainable environmentally and also economically.	He says times are tough for dairy farmers so this gives him a new stream of revenue.	We only use about 10 percent of what we make and the rest is fed onto the electricity grid Melnik explains.	which has installed a Grind2Energy system.	It's an industrial strength grinder that gobbles up all the scraps of food the store can't sell explains Karen Franczyk who is the sustainability program manager for Whole Foods' North Atlantic region.	False
California Gov.	Trumpcampaigned on a promise to withdraw the U.S.from the accord saying it would lead to higher energy prices and hurt domesticbusinesses from being able to compete globally.	The Paris Accord would undermineour economy hamstring ourworkers weaken oursovereignty impose unacceptable legal risk and put us at a permanentdisadvantageto the other countiesof the world.	The internationalagreement which was signed in 2015 and went into effect seven months ago is considered a major part theenvironmental legacy of the Obama administration.	AndWall Street fund managers and large businesses are moving away from fossil fuels due to market conditions further contributing to increased use of cleaner energy sources.	False
This month he sent out a tweet calling for an economic revolution because in his view capitalism is failing us killing us and robbing from our childrens future.	When they are not being greedy or trying to dominate the world they are responsible for polluting the planet.	The Exxon case shows that the agenda of the left wing groups behind Dark Waters is a moving target one always guided by the trial lawyers laser like focus on the deepest pocketbook.	Sandwiched between much of our entertainment are messages that perpetuate liberal themes The military is bloodthirsty radical Muslims must be handled with kid gloves trial lawyers and climate change activists are crusading heroes and above all corporations are evil.	One example is a proposed big budget biographical film about Ronald Reagan starring Dennis Quaid.	False
In a video that was shared widely including by celebrities such as James Corden the British writer argues that the only way to help the environment is to change the big structural political economic stuff.	Monbiot concludes that we need to go straight to the heart of capitalism and overthrow it.	The amount of energy per unit of GDP in the United States has fallen steadily for several decades.	When they dont save they change course unlike politicians who fear public embarrassment and throw good money after bad.	Conservatives understand this.	False
I think the best possible path to do that is through a cap and trade system he said.	One area where the Texan came down strong No limits on the meat industry despite calls from the United Nations for people to change their diet to avoid more damage to global land use.	In response to a question from Priya Subberwal a New York University student Mr. ORourke made clear that he prefers cap and trade over a straight tax on carbon.	We should certainly price carbon.	Under such a system the government issues a limited number of allowances or permits to companies and other entities that emit carbon dioxide essentially creating a cap on emissions.	False
He said in the second paragraph 'economic growth enhances environmental protection.'	Jobs matter!'	Trump said 'I am committed to keeping our air and water clean but always remember that economic growth enhances environmental protection.	By comparison last year President Obama's message in 2016 took on an urgent tone and said 'Human activity is disrupting the climate and the challenge of combating climate change is one that will define the contours of our time.'	In 2013 on a chilly day at Trump Tower he tweeted 'Another freezing day in the Spring what is going on with global warming?	False
We are currently on track for a world that could displace billions of people from their homes Thunberg warned this week during a speech accepting Amnesty International's Ambassador of Conscience Award.	Support for a school climate strike has since spread across the globe.	Strike organizers have a list of demands that includes respect of indigenous land sustainable agriculture protecting biodiversity environmental justice and a just transition away from fossil fuels and towards renewable energy said 17 year old Baltimore resident and organizer Nadia Nazar.	Paris and its related pledges would undermine U.S. competitiveness his spokesman said.	I agree that we need to ensure that we move forward in a sustainable rational manner said Graves.	False
We have an enormous opportunity to make them a part of the climate solution and for both economic and environmental reasons we should take it.	During CNNs marathon town hall on climate change Wednesday candidates vowed to end oil gas and coal leasing on federal land as part of a shared goal to decarbonizing the economy and prevent catastrophic warming.	Her policy vision unveiled in April includes overturning Trumps land rollbacks a moratorium on oil and gas leases on federal land and recruiting 10000 youth and veterans for a 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps.	We actually need to undo the damage that this administration has done and then expand the lands that were protecting in our country Castro said.	Castros 10 trillion climate plan also released this week calls for designating new national monuments parks and wildlife refuge and outlines a so called Green Opportunity Corps that would put 15000 young adults to work in areas like public land conservation.	False
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Sanders andothers have claimed their plans would benefit the economy.	Economists estimate that if we do not take action we will lose 34.5 trillion in economic activity by the end of the century.	Sanders paintedhis Green New Dealas a way to end the greed of the fossil fuel industry.	While some may use attacks on natural gas and oil to energize their political base our industry will remain focused on providing the energy that powers Americas economy and modern lifestyle while also continuing to lower carbon emissions beyond their current generational low.	The American Petroleum Institute a trade association for the oil and gas industry responded to Sanders in a statement to Fox News.	False
Ernest Moniz who served as an energy secretary under the Obama administration took part in the summit and said one of the areas of focus was carbon pricing to create market incentives for the transition to a low carbon system.	Energy and investment executives who met with Pope Francis earlier in June stood mostly in agreement that a tax on carbon emissions is the best path forward to combating climate change.	The idea of a carbon tax a fee charged onto companies according to the amount of carbon emissions their plants emit into the atmosphere has been recommended as a market friendly method to controlling CO2 pollution.	In addition a carbon tax would cost over 500000 jobs in manufacturing and more than 1 million jobs by 2030.	Most who took part in the summit agreed that afee on carbon emissions is pivotal in reforming the U.S. energy sector according to an Axios report.	False
Etc.	not believing in science because recent hurricanes have been bad and climate change is causing it and blah blah blah.	Anyway what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning.	Similarly California had a historic drought that recently came to an end.	Who says?	False
'It simply sounds like a transfer of wealth from the United States to other countries.'	It was about U.S. money going to other countries.'	Ross said much of the predicted backlash from other countries that drive global warming concerns would be rooted in economics not science.	'And how can it be an effective deal when it allows China and India two of the major polluters to keep increasing their pollution for another decade or two?'	The declaration says that the Arctic 'is warming at more than twice the rate of the global average resulting in widespread social environmental and economic impacts in the Arctic and worldwide.'	False
Andreally what were trying to do is affect the bottom line the financial equation for the use of fossil fuels she said.	Lets help bring the death knell to this industry thats done so much harm.	Divest from the fossil fuel industry De Blasio told the Vermont Democrat at the time.	She appeared to contradict herself a few sentences later telling the audience that the intent is really to eliminate the oil industrys license to operate.	We just acted and I want to urge every city every county every state to do the same divest.	False
We only wish the ad had noted how much Carlos Curbelo has taken from Big Oil.	In one of South Floridascongressional districts the party machine swept in to prop up a two term incumbent by painting his opponent as a puppet of fossil fuel interests and dirty coal money.	The super PAC Climate Hawks Vote which supports candidates with a progressive energy agendahas been running ads against Curbelo that point to his history of receiving donations from fossil fuel companies including Chevron and Exxon Mobil.This cycle hisNo.	The incumbent is Republican Rep. Carlos Curbelo and the party apparatus is the National Republican Congressional Committee whose coffers this cycle contain nearly 7 million in donations from the oil and gas industry.	Debbie Mucarsel Powell is a climate champion and the advocate South Floridians need as they watch sea levels rise see beaches destroyed by red tide and live with the increasing threat of stronger more powerful hurricanes.	False
Atlantic hurricane season has reached its peak and as Florida deals with devastation wrought by Irma RT takes a look at where the phenomena come from and if they are really becoming more frequent?	Is the US getting hit more frequently by hurricanes?	However expects it to result in more intense tropical cyclones globally with substantially higher rainfall rates by the end of the 21st century.	Blowing from east to west across Africa the winds form clusters of thunderstorms once the waves of air have enough moisture lift and instability.	The interaction between the hot dry air of the Sahara Desert and the cooler more humid air from the Gulf of Guinea below creates high altitude winds known as the African Easterly Jet.	False
The resolution has few details but it aims to overhaul the U.S. economy and spread wealth more evenly.	Instead it calls for lots of spending to create among other things infrastructure and transport that don't rely on fossil fuels.	All great American programs everything from The Great Society to The New Deal started with a vision for our future said co sponsor Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y.	Moniz now CEO of Energy Futures Initiative agrees that the U.S. needs to pick up the pace of its shift away from carbon but he calls the decade long time frame impractical.	It calls for a speedy shift in energy generation from fossil fuels to renewable sources like wind and solar and for a fair and just transition for all communities and workers.	False
The CO2 Coalition is one of several think tanks that peddle misinformation about climate change and receive funding from the Mercer familythe billionaire megadonors whogave more than 15 million to Trumps 2016 campaign.	The CO2 Coalition a right wing think tank that Happer co founded and that argues Earth benefits from humans pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere confirmedhis upcoming resignation in a Tuesday post to its website and praised him for his efforts.	A retired Princeton physics professor with no expertise in climatology Happer has served as President Donald Trumps deputy assistant for emerging technologies on the National Security Council since September 2018.	While your proposed review of alarmist analyses and projections has been delayed we believe your work in calling attention to the problem of unscientific climate alarmism has reduced the chances of the dramatic increases in energy prices that would arise from the banning of fossil fuels that some have proposed Patrick Moore and Caleb Rossiter two representatives of the CO2 Coalition wrote in a joint statement.	Earlier this year TrumptappedHapper to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting adversarial scientific peer review of climate science part of the administrations relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis.	False
Look whats happening now in the Amazon whats going on?	Nothing.	Tonight while American families worry about making ends meet the Democrats running for president will be working hard to outbid each other on who can raise electricity and gasoline prices the highest and the fastest the alliance said in an emailed statement.	Bernie Sanders painted an apocalyptic future wreaked by the climate crisis and pledged to wage war on the fossil fuel industry.	Dont the Democrats care about fighting American poverty?	False
Do you know what?	According toDaniel Rothman professor of geophysics in the MIT Department of Earth Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences and co director of MITs Lorenz Center we are fast approaching thresholds of catastrophe in the carbon cycle which make doom almost inevitable.	But before you ring up your grandchildren and warnthem to cancel the marquee theyve booked for their 100th birthday celebrations perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothmans cheery prediction.	Its saying that if left unchecked the carbon cycle would move into a realm which would be no longer stable and would behave in a way that would be difficult to predict.	First lets not forget it that itis flatly contradicted by the recent bombshell study suggesting that the effects of carbon dioxide on global warming have been overstated that the computer models are running too hot and that were not about to fry any time soon.	False
It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self reinforcing cycle takes over.	Even as some scientists are still looking at what happened during the second half of the 20th century at a scale of change over decades others are beginning to address the significant acceleration of changes observed year by year.	Consequently an initial warming leads to more emission leading to more warming and more emission.	Just as bad the permafrost melting would continue after 2100 which would lock us into even more warming.	A link to a number of papers since 2015 showing dramatic climate change globally and in particular with extremes at the poles is still controversial to some.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The people who are already suffering the impacts of sea level rise and unprecedented super storms droughts wildfires and heat waves.	In May career government economists accused Perdue and his agency of retaliating against them for their reports showing that Trump's tax and farm subsidy policies are hurting the very rural voters he promised to help.	We stand for spreading the word about the science we do especially when it has a potential impact on millions and millions of people.	Rather than embrace science the Trump administration is hurting farmers in order to cling to an anti science political position.	False
It wasnt just global warming.	Because I heard the U.S. president speak.	But in Washington where science is increasingly political the fact that oceans and atmosphere are warming and that the heat is propelling storms into superstorms has become as sensitive as talking about gun control in the wake of a mass shooting.	In Florida scientists say Gov.	The text box Concerns that the U.S. is dodging questions on global warming.	False
Putting a price on carbon can help change the behavior of polluters.	TheEnergy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act is notable in that itsthe first bipartisan carbon tax bill introduced in Congress in about 10 years.	More than a dozen federal agencies just warned us that if we dont take dramatic action climate change will knock 10 percent off of our GDP by the end of this century Deutch the bills Democratic co sponsorstated to Bloomberg Environment.	In order to shield citizens from higher fossil fuel prices revenue from the tax would be given back out to households.Sponsors of the legislation believe it would slash greenhouse gas emissions by one third over a 10 year period and a 90 percent cut by 2050 compared to 2015 emission levels.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	False
The Natural Resources Defense Council NRDC for example played a pivotal role in crafting the Clean Power Plan which became Obamas signature global warming policy.	The League of Conservation Voters LCV led eight other groups in a legal challengeof Trumps recent executive order to reopen large swaths of Arctic seas to offshore drilling.LCV is one of the many environmental groups that endorsed Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential election.	CBD famously sued the Department of Homeland Security DHS to stop the construction of a wall on the U.S. Mexico border.	Theyare living up to threats made after President Donald Trump took office namely to use the courts to preserve Obama administration policies.	Earthjustice and CBD joined LCVs suit against Trumps EPA.	False
We would make sure its eliminated and no more subsidies for either one of those either any fossil fuel Biden said Ten Democrat candidates including Biden and Sanders will participate in the CNN hosted climate change town hall Wednesday evening.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	Just to clarify would there be any place for fossil fuels including coal and fracking in a Biden administration Bash asked during Julys Democrat debate in Detroit.	Its a danger to the air we breathe.	We would work it out.	False
The end of the document contains a QA one of which deals with the plans funding The Federal Reserve can extend credit to power these projects and investments new public banks can be created as in WWII to extend credit and a combination of various taxation tools including taxes on carbon and other emissions and progressive wealth taxes can be employed.	The final Green New Deal willmitigate deeply entrenched racial regional and gender based inequalities in income and wealth including without limitation ensuring that federal and other investment will be equitably distributed to historically impoverished low income deindustrialized or other marginalized communities in such a way that builds wealth and ownership at the community level.	Early on under Jurisdiction the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national industrial economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality.	The Green New Deal it says shall provide all members of our society across all regions and all communities the opportunity training and education to be a full and equal participant in the transition including through a job guarantee program to assure a living wage job to every person who wants one.	The deal shall ensure a just transition for all workers low income communities communities of color indigenous communities rural and urban communities and the front line communities most affected by climate change pollution and other environmental harm including by ensuring that local implementation of the transition is led from the community level.	False
Newsomunderstands the importance of an industry to the 40 million people who will be driving 26 million combustible engines tomorrow.	Its a challenging issue.	But at what cost is this being done especially when nobody else is doing anything.	In the next few weeksCalifornia Gov.	Its also an inclusive scoping because it includes people in the industry that have jobs communities that are impacted from an environmental justice prism but also from an economic justice prism.	False
The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	And its these three things wealth growth and technology which allows humans to thrive on planet Earth not 240 per gallon fuel taxes imposed by an elite that cares not for the masses.	The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	Here were told that the U.S. economy will take a 10 hit by 2100 unless we reduce our carbon emissions.	The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed.	False
Justin Haskins Jhaskins is executive editor of The Heartland Institute and the co founder of StoppingSocialism.com.	Accompanying every hurricane are numerous stories in mainstream media outlets suggesting disaster could have been averted had American elected officials done more to stop global warming which left wing pundits continue to insist is almost entirely being caused by humans carbon dioxide CO2 emissions.	And from 2006 to 2016 the United States has averaged an annual reduction in its carbon dioxide emissions of 1.2 percent according to an analysis by BP.	And if all that werent enough its absolutely absurd to say Trump is any way responsible for global warming because even if it is true humans are the primary cause of warming carbon dioxide emissions actually dropped in Trumps first two years in office.	However the cause of this increase is debated and there is low confidence in attribution of changes in tropical cyclone activity to human influence.	False
So we will certainly youre right weve got to look at agriculture weve got to look at every cause of the crisis that we face.	With that being known what do you plan on doing to ensure that Americans limit their consumption of animal products?	All I can say is if we believe as I do and you do that climate change is real were going to have to tackle it in every single area including agriculture.	Climate change is the leading cause of every bad thing on the earth is one hell of a You probably already know Britta.	Perpetual presidential candidate Bernie Sanders continues his Gimme tour with more and more promises to steal from the poor to give to the rich.	False
