There is a ship washed ashore she added.	Last month a series of earthquakes struck the Indonesian island of Lombok killing hundreds of people the biggest on 5 August killed more than 460.	The 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia.	Officials have reported five deaths but it is not clear if those were as a result of the tsunami.	The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed.	False
One of its authors a leading professor from Stanford condemned the US border wall project branding it a 'crime against biodiversity'.	The research paper also calls for the government to encourage scientific research in the borderlands to inform and assist environmental evaluation and mitigation efforts.	The authors conclude that 'national security can and must be pursued with an approach that preserves our natural heritage.'	Some of the recommendations include Following existing environmental laws taking action to mitigate ecological harm and forgoing physical barriers in particularly sensitive areas.	Professor Dirzo added 'Cut off like this the bighorn sheep and other animals and plants will become zombie species populations that are demographically and genetically doomed.'	False
Like this story?	Trump is selling off our oceans and selling out coastal communities and marine life to the oil industry said Kristen Monsell oceans program legal director at the Center for Biological Diversity.	The catastrophe caused 17.2 billion worth of damage to natural resources according to a study in 2017 commissioned by the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.	Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers.	The Center for American Progress a left leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement saying in a statement that offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources.	True
In a nod to the social justice part of the plan he says that the deal is an opportunity to uproot historical injustices and inequities to advance social racial and economic justice including redressing the exclusion of black brown Native Americanand other vulnerable communities from the programs that made up the original New Deal.	But the White House hopeful also promises that the plan will pay for itself over 16 years sayingexperts have scored the plan and its economic effects.	The plan also promises support for the climate justice movement to take on the fossil fuel industry and other polluters and lead the globe in solving the climate crisis.	He also promises justice for frontline communities via a 40 billion Climate Justice Resiliency Fund as well as an extra 200 billion to the Green Climate Fund.	SANDERS CALLS FOR 'REGISTRY OF DISREPUTABLE FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS' CUTTING PRISON POPULATION IN HALF The Vermont senator has long been an advocate for the Green New Deal but only this year has it become a central policy for many of those seeking the Democratic nomination for president.	True
Despite sidestepping these laws DHS is committed to responsible environmental stewardship and will continue to assess potential impacts coordinate with relevant stakeholders and to the extent possible offset or mitigate potential impacts department spokesman Carlos Diaz said in an email to HuffPost.	Between 2005 and 2008 the department invoked that authority five times according to the agency.	Driven by an anti immigrant agenda the Trump administration is callously putting construction of an environmentally and culturally destructive border wall above water resources for communities on both sides of the border federally protected lands clean air and the lives of hundreds of endangered species all while turning a blind eye to the vital relationships of cross border communities and our longstanding values as a nation she said in a statement.	Trump wants to scare people into letting him ignore the law and endanger wildlife and people Brian Segee an attorney with the Center for Biological Diversity said in a statement.	DHS has been granted authority to exempt itself from all legal requirements it determines necessary to construct barriers and roads under the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996.	False
My message to you Mr. President is that as a public servant and especially as a president your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people Schwarzenegger begins.	He then proceeds to chronicle the negative effects of pollution in the United States.	We cant sit back and just do nothing while people are getting sick and dying especially when you know theres another way.	But this has nothing to do with the Paris climate accord.	So maybe the next time he decides to criticize the decision to get the U.S. out of the Paris accord he should read the document first.	True
The GOPs leading politicians and media outlets have tended to praise fossil fuel companies and ignore or cast doubt on climate science.	Silicon Valley business leaders like Apple CEO Tim Cook and Tesla CEO Elon Musk have also been arguing that the US should stick to the agreement.	Still withdrawing from such a recent agreement that the vast majority of countries across the world have signed on to has serious consequences for Americas role as a global leader.	The Associated Presss Jill Colvin and Julie Pace though report that Trumps decision may not be entirely clear cut and that aides continued to deliberate on caveats in the language.	So the question of whether the US should actually pull out of the agreement has reportedly been the subject of intense debate within the Trump administration.	True
What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency.	We are still emitting far too much and this needs to be reversed said Erik Solheim head of UN Environment.	We have many of the solutions already to address this challenge.	Other experts in the field of atmospheric research agreed that the WMO findings were a cause for concern.	Another concern in the report is the continuing mysterious rise of methane levels in the atmosphere which were also larger than the average over the past ten years.	True
The Associated Press contributed to this report.	California Gov.	Speaking to MSNBCs Andrea Mitchell at an environmentalsummitin San Francisco last week Brown tore into Trump for the presidents controversial tweets about the death toll in Puerto Rico from last years Hurricane Maria and urged voters to vote for Democrats in Novembers midterm elections in an effort to thwart Trumps agenda.	Jerry Brown ramped up his criticism of President Trump in an interview that aired Monday calling the president a saboteur in the fight to combat climate change and saying that somethings got to happen to this guy.	We're for clean air and water but at the same time we're for reasonable regulations Deputy Interior Secretary David Bernhardt told reporters.	True
The eyes of all future generations are upon you.	Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act then you would be evil.	But the young people are starting to understand your betrayal.	So a 50 risk is simply not acceptable to us we who have to live with the consequences.	And if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you.	True
Both lawmakers were responding to a question asked by Axios Amy Harder during the event.	Theres a resolution that has a dream but theres no bill theres no contents at all.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	We have to work within the systems we have and make sure we are not destroying our economy at the same time were moving to a lower carbon economy Murkowski said.	Republicans on the other hand want to get Democrats on the record in support of a proposal they see as socialism.	False
Members of Congress who signed Tuesdays letter underscored the important role the region plays in ensuring a quick response to spills and contamination in the six states which are criss crossed with oil and gas pipelines spills often near the bulk of the nations freshwater supply and the Mississippi River waterways.	And to be honest thats why its being suggested the employee said.	And in a visit last week to East Chicago Indianawhich is grappling with a lead contamination crisis affecting both the water and soil Pruitt reportedly denied to a resident of the town that Region 5 was on the chopping block.	My question is Why us?	If we have the most industry and we do the most enforcement and get the greatest results what better way to disembowel the EPA than going after Region 5?	True
Jerry Brown said in announcing the lawsuit along with other top California Democrats.	The lawsuit was filed in the U.S.	The world is not flat pollution is not free and the health and safety of our children is not for sale said Democratic state Attorney General Xavier Becerra standing alongside the governor.	Pollutants coming out of vehicles out of the tailpipe does permanent lung damage to children living near well traveled roads and freeways.	At issue is a move by Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt to roll back 2012 rules aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions.	True
The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Wherever we live whoever we are we all share the same responsibility make our planet great again Macron added.	French President Emmanuel Macron German Chancellor Angela Merkel and and Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentilonisaid in a joint statement that they regretted the United States' decision to withdraw from the accord but affirmed our strongest commitment to implement its measures and encouraged all our partners to speed up their action to combat climate change.	Spokesman Dmitry Peskov added that its implementation will not be as effective without the key signatories.	Bill Ford chairman of the Ford Motor Co. also weighed in saying We believe climate change is real and remain deeply committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in our vehicles and our facilities.	False
Speaking directly to the question of global warming Lagarde said that we will be toasted roasted and grilled if humanity fails to make critical decisions regarding carbon emissions.	This announcement drew fierce criticism from world leaders and activists with former UN secretary general Ban Ki moon accusing Trump of standing on the wrong side of history.	If we dont address the issues of climate change and inequality Ms. Lagarde said Tuesday before a major economic conference in Riyadh we will be moving to a dark future.	As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of carbon footprints and preaching renewable energy they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world.	Most signatories Solomon notes in an essay in last Fridays Financial Post are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios.	True
The most consistent factor in all of this coverage was the criticism.	Correspondent Chip Reid echoed by referencing worldwide condemnation.	The twin disasters of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma showcased once again the media's reflex to use such tragedies to push for liberal climate change policies.	NBC Nightly News correspondent Matt Bradleys July 30 quip that President Donald Trump shifts American climate commitments into reverse was typical of the media attitude towards the presidents environmental policies.	On April 22 CBS Evening News correspondent Dean Reynolds noted that Joe Bast CEO of The Heartland Institute looks with approval on Mr. Trumps decision to roll back regulations limiting greenhouse gases and to his appointments of fellow skeptics in the administration.	True
Scientists and researchers at the University of Michigan the University of Exeter and others came to a similar conclusion in a 2018 study which found that political bias and partisan news reporting can affect whether people indicate experiencing certain extreme weather events.	Last year the Yale program which carries out scientific research on public knowledge about climate change set out to map the partisan divide on how people perceive the effects of global warming across the United States.	Jennifer Marlon a research scientist at the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication said the divergence in the way American perceive the weather is being driven by factors including the news they consume and their social circles.	An overwhelming majority of scientists believe human consumption of fossil fuels is driving sweeping changes in the global climate by ramping up the concentration of heat trapping gases in the atmosphere.	The divergence shows how years of political squabbling over global warming including disputes over its existence have grown deep roots distorting the way Americans view the world around them.	False
We demand climate action that addresses historic injustices by pricing pollution and investing in solutions that improve economic and environmental conditions in front line communities.	We will push our allies in the movement to use racial equity in their analyses by identifying disparate impacts of pollution and climate disruption and designing remedies that improve conditions for the most overburdened first.	Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people.	These are the inextricable demands of a resistance as powerful as it is diverse and as strong as it is resilient.	Our communities to quote environmental justice advocate Majora Carter are the canaries in the coal mine We have already begun to experience climate disruption by virtue of where we live and work and we have always been on the front lines of pollution.	False
Every time there is a disaster politicians journalists and scientists unfailingly spring to life to tell us that the disaster and the costs and suffering that accompanied it were associated with linked to or even caused by climate change Pielke wrote in his newly updated book.	While political spin doctors often find ways to parse language and statistics to say things that are plausibly defensible but which are ultimately misleading or just wrong for me such misrepresentations have gone too far in an area where I have some considerable expertise Pielke wrote.	This stance has ultimately led me to being systematically attacked any time I make a public statement about climate change in effect railroading me out of the climate debate as an unwelcome voice Pielke wrote.	While this is often extremely frustrating I remain committed to doing the best job I can analyzing data on climate and disasters in ways that are transparent and grounded in evidence.	The newest version of the book The Rightful Place of Science Disasters Climate Change by University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. takes on the often false claims peddled in the media about global warming and disasters from hurricanes to floods to droughts.	False
While man is having an effect on climate he said most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in.	Skepticism that fails to account for evidence is no virtue.	Answer my question why will you not say that climate change is caused by carbon dioxide?	Energy Secretary Rick Perry offered little explanation when protesters pressed him to explain his position on climate change at an energy conference on Tuesday.	You are a climate denier said the first demonstrator as members of the audience booed and called for her to sit down and to get her out of here.	True
The administration argues he doesn't have jurisdiction.	Department of Homeland Security.	The law and the Constitution are firmly on our side and we think the judge will agree.'	A lawsuit has been filed by the Center for Biological Diversityenvironmental groups and the State of California against theU.S.	Curiel came to national attention in 2016 when he was presiding over one of the cases against Trump University.	True
Name calling and politicization of science are toxic to the scientific enterprise and undermines our credibility in the general community.	Despite his agreement with the climate consensus Mass has increasingly come under fire from activists for not toeing the alarmist line when it comes to blaming extreme weather events on global warming.	Curry who spoke at length with Mass about the events wrote The attacks ramped up when a group of students complained to the Assistant Dean for Diversity Equity and Inclusion.	The matter didnt end there however and Atmospheric Sciences Department Chair Dale Durran sent a mass email to the Department faculty including the link to Lenfernas post and voicing concern about Mass behavior and racism' Curry noted.	Curry said the students accused Mass of deception being on the payroll of oil companies purposely obfuscating with multiple twitter accounts racism misogyny tokenism Trumpism.	True
Acting Assistant U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Wood said during a hearing before Gleason in November that environmental groups were misinterpreting the intent of the law written in 1953.	At issue in the case was the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act.	The American Petroleum Institute a defendant in the case disagreed with the ruling.	Erik Grafe an attorney with Earthjustice welcomed the ruling saying it shows that the president cannot just trample on the Constitution to do the bidding of his cronies in the fossil fuel industry at the expense of our oceans wildlife and climate.	Earthjustice represented numerous environmental groups that sued the Trump administration over the April 2017 executive order reversing the drilling bans.	True
Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project the group that conducted the papers report was also involved in an investigation last November targeting Exxons climate change research.	Global warming is partially responsible for a decades old oil spill that happened after an Exxon Mobil tanker hit a barrier reef according to a Los Angeles Times report funded in part by liberal billionaire George Soros.	Thursdays report dovetails with the groups previous investigations showing the oil company hid knowledge about climate change from the public for years.	TheFund has made grants to the Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project and InsideClimate News but hasno involvement in articles they produce the papers disclosure notes.	It also pressured various attorneys general into investigating Exxon namely for the purposes of bringing the company up on racketeering charges.	True
Womens suffrage and womens rights.	The abolition of slavery.	But the former vice president who won a Nobel Peace Prize for his climate change work has faced pushback from some conservatives for his efforts.	If everybodys just completely happy with what youre doing you may not be working hard enough to bring about the kind of change that we need Gore said on CBS.	The longtime climate change battle advocate has taken criticism of his work in stride.	True
Jobs matter!	Critics of Trumps energy policies seized on the opportunity to criticize the president for his Earth Day message.	Then start taking action on global warming and quit calling it fake news said self described feminist and human rights activist Cole Ledford to Trump.	It initiates a review of efforts to reduce the emission of methane in oil and natural gas production as well as a Bureau of Land Management hydraulic fracturing rule to determine whether those reflect the presidents policy priorities.	Public radio show host Al Letson wrote How will you preserve the natural beauty of the land if you dismantle the Nathan Bernard from Brooklyn New York replied on Twitter You say Happy as you prepare to literally blow up the entire earth.	True
The proposals electrified a static debate that too often ranged from outright denialism of climate change by some to dubious market fixes offered by others.	We have young people that bring a lot of great qualities but maybe they dont bring a lot of life experience he said.	We should be open to the fact that wealth transfer schemes suggested in the radical policies like the Green New Deal may not be the best path said Shimkus who less than a decade ago deployed Bible verses to dismiss the realities of climate science.	After failing to persuade House Democratic leaders to establish a select committee on a Green New Deal she began work on a sweeping new resolution outlining a transformative policy to guarantee high wage clean energy jobs to millions of Americans and upgrade the nations crumbling infrastructure to withstand already unavoidable extreme weather and sea level rise.	Gohmert told panel witness Rev.	False
Seychelles President Danny Faure said Our large ocean brings development opportunities but also responsibility.	Under the terms of the 21m 15m deal the charity and the investors including the Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation paid for a portion of the Seychelles national debt.	The Oscar winner said This effort will help the people of Seychelles protect their ocean for future generations and will serve as a model for future marine conservation projects worldwide.	By planning properly to protect our environment we can be sure we are also protecting our people and their livelihoods against an uncertain future.	A foundation set up by actor Leonardo DiCaprio is one of the investors that worked on the deal.	True
Im sure theres giant corruption going on.	A bigger worry he says are the wrong headed policies being introduced supposedly to combat climate change.	The solution he argues is nuclear power which has had a terrible press because of green propaganda most likely funded by fossil fuel industries.	Though he still thinks carbon dioxide is a problem because of its warming effects on the climate he now believes the threat is not immediate.	His change of heart was brought aboutpartly by being in Oslo when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.	False
With very few exceptions governments all over the world have fallen into the trap of paying renewable energy scammers on the basis that it is necessary at least politically to be seen to be doing something about climate change Sloan writes before providing readers with an avalanche of economic data to back up her assertion.	Earlier this month the prominent Australian economist Judith Sloan wrote a scathing essay decrying renewable energy as the greatest scam being perpetrated against taxpayers and consumers greater even than Ponzi Madoffor Enron.	The current state of affairs has not only undermined Germanys climate policy but also jeopardizes Germanys international reputation as a climate leader Solomon asserts.	Meanwhile Solomon notes in an essay in Fridays Financial Post most signatories are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios.	Apparently Sloans arguments and those of like minded analysts prevailed on policy makers and the country rejected the CET with its taxpayer funded subsidizing of renewables.	True
U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte of the Northern District of California said Interior had failed to give a reasoned explanation for the changes and had not offered details why an earlier analysis by the Obama administration was faulty.	After all there is no reasonable explanation for anything this president has done when it comes to the environment whether its allowing toxic sludge to be dumped in our waterways or pulling out of the historic Paris climate accord.	On Wednesday one federal judge reminded Donald Trump that hating Barack Obama is not a good enough reason to ignore key environmental protections.	While the previous administration let science and data drive its climate agenda the Trump administration has had one goal in mind destroying former President Obamas environmental legacy.	In a way that cuts to the heart of everything this administration has done so far when it comes to environmental policy.	True
The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Report director David Reidmiller said questions about the timing were relevant but said what was in the report was more important.	While Gore has become one of the most prominent advocates for reducing carbon emissions and fighting to reduce the effect of climate change the former vice president has not been immune from claims that his work is not as altruistic as it appears.	He is a flawed character Stephen Lacey editor in chief of the magazine GreenTechMedia said on his podcast The Energy Gang last year.	Former Vice President Al Gore accused the Trump administration of trying to bury a damning government report that linked global warming to the worsening of natural disasters by quietly releasing the study on the Friday after Thanksgiving.	True
The IPCC noted the literature indicates that the pricing of emissions is relevant but needs to be complemented with other policies to drive the required changes in line with 1.5C consistent cost effective pathways.	While the price of carbon is central to prompt mitigation pathways compatible with 1.5 degree Celsius consistent pathways a complementary mix of stringent policies is required reads the IPCCs report.	The IPCCs report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December.	The report calls for societal changes that are unprecedented in terms of scale in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius the stretch goal of the Paris accord.	California and many European countries have policies to price carbon dioxide emissions and mandate green energy including cap and trade systems and carbon taxes.	True
Asked on Saturday whether he thought climate change had a role in the fires he said you have a lot of factors.	Trump initially blamed state officials for poor forest management in making the fires in northern and southern California worse and even threatened to cut off federal funding.	He said Managing the forest is part of it.	However it seems likely that number of missing persons may be an over estimate amid confusion over the way the list has been compiled.	I have a strong opinion.	False
Warren argues that justice plays a massive role in properly addressing the climate change crisis citing studies that suggest that black and Hispanic families are disproportionately affected by air pollution caused by white people Warren calls this phenomenon environmental racism and concludes that environmental injustice is the result of decades of discrimination and environmental racism compounding in communities that have been overlooked for too long.	Polluters must pay for the consequences of their actions not leave them for the communities to clean up.	These communities need justiceand I will stand with them she added	However Warrens role in crafting a petition to the Supreme Court on behalf of LTV Steel which helped the companys fight against a congressional requirement that it pay millions of dollars into a fund for its retired coal miners health care calls her promise into question.	Warren also reiterates her pledge to ensure that employers and our government honor the promises they made to workers in fossil fuel industries.	True
Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on climate change and the migrant caravan claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence climate change is also playing a part based on an interview with a farmer turned migrant whos crop failed.	Many experts who have seriously examined claims linking climate to violent conflict and mass migrations have found little evidence to support such claims but the media still applied the narrative by linking global warming to Central American migrations.	Experts say that climate change in the region is exacerbating and sometimes causing a miasma of other problems including crop failures and povertyThe Guardian reported in October.	Migrants are fleeing violent corrupt countries with poor economies but some environmentalists and journalists claim global warming is also to blame.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True
The pontiff said that such actions are usually caused by corporations and an elementary sense of justice would require that they be punished for them.	I would like to appeal to all the leaders and actors in this area to contribute their efforts to ensuring adequate legal protection for our common home he said.	Above and beyond its sinfulness failure to care for the environment is an injustice and a crime Francis suggested and should be legally enforced.	It is a sin against future generations and is manifested in acts and habits of pollution and destruction of the harmony of the environment in transgressions against the principles of interdependence and in the breaking of networks of solidarity between creatures.	We must introduce we are thinking about it in the Catechism of the Catholic Church the sin against ecology the ecological sin against the common home because it is a duty the pope said Friday in addressing participants in an international conference on penal law.	True
And to think that you're going to be able to stave offpublic concerns and public demand for action by ... writing a denial report seems too late.	Asked about the formation of the panel a National Security Council representative said the administration wants to ensure that decisions are fully informed and based on the most accurate and relevant information available.	The panel's findings could give President Donald Trump who has challenged his own government's conclusions about the causes of and threats from climate change more ammunition to ignore it.	John Kasich who ran against Trump in 2016 is expected to say at a speech Tuesday at the University of British Columbia.	WASHINGTON The Democratic chairman of a key congressional panel Tuesday characterized the Trump administration's latest efforts to challenge the science behind climate change as dangerous.	True
Pruitt was among about two dozen attorney generals who sued to stop President Barack Obamas push to limit carbon emissions.	Closely tied to the oil and gas industry in his home state Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man man emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change.	Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker contributed to this report from Washington.	The rule dictated specific emission targets for states based on power plant emissions and gave officials broad latitude to decide how to achieve reductions.	Appearing at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Pruitt said The EPA and no federal agency should ever use its authority to say to you we are going to declare war on any sector of our economy.	True
When its not personal then you revert to what your team has been saying and the values your team has.	Most recently lawmakers from both parties in the mainland US and Puerto Rico have called for an investigation into how a tiny energy company in Zinkes hometown of Whitefish Montana won a major contract to rebuild power lines in hurricane ravaged Puerto Rico.	Meanwhile Zinke is also coming under scrutiny for other reasons including his use of private and military jets.	As such the agency is often the arbiter between oil gas and mining companies seeking access to valuable resources embedded in public lands and environmentalists seeking to protect the same lands for biodiversity wildlife and recreation.	To make it cheaper for coal companies to strip mine in watersheds and make it more expensive for families to visit Yosemite is a perversion of American values said Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club.	False
Making sure companies capture and sell the gas drilled on public lands ensures that the American taxpayers get the biggest return possible for leasing that land.	The better we protect our environment the better we can protect people.	But with a problem as big as climate change and as multifaceted as national security every step is worthwhile.	Extreme weather events made worse by climate change disrupt local communities and weaken the civic institutions that act as a bulwark against terrorists and extremism.	By producing energy in the United States and limiting pollution were making the world safer.	True
The job of the next president will be to undo the damage Trump has wrought.	There will be much handwringing about the shattering of democratic norms but the real work will be in doing whatever we can in the little time we have to avert a true climate catastrophe.	He was chief counsel to Senator James Inhofe of Oklahoma a proud denier of climate change.	We are left with no other alternatives.	Rural landowners complained about the government regulating how much pollution from chemical fertilizers and pesticides could seep into water on their property.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	Human society is overwhelmingly responsible for our warming planet.	Rubio said that while scientists agree that human behavior is contributing to climate change Icant tell you what percentage of that is due to human activity.	There is overwhelming scientific consensusincluding from the United States government that human activity is the main driver of climate change.	No matter what the answer is most or all of it.	True
There is no dealing with climate change unless we deal with corruption Gunn Wright said in a video set to be released Thursday afternoon.	2 concern after health care for Iowa caucusgoers in a Monmouth University survey from April.	Buttigiegs climate adviser David Victor has been called a fossil fuel shill for taking research funding from an oil giant and deflecting blame from the industry.	The endorsement comes as Warren is sliding in national polls which commentators have largely attributed to her apparent wobbling on Medicare for All.	Youth Climate Strike and 18 year old activist Jamie Margolin.	False
Washington Democratic Gov.	Now Inslees back with an even more urgent message Adopt policies to tackle global warming or there is not survival.	Inslee and his allies cited the recent National Climate Assessment to back equating future global warming to Nazi Germany sweeping across Europe.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Churchill gave similar remarks before British Parliament in May 1940 in the early days of World War II.	True
But there are a lot of other factors that impact vulnerability as well.	RH The types of mitigation efforts youre talking about are critical.	PS Has flood insurance basically induced people to take risks that they shouldnt be taking?	Should they just get out?	Dont they override or mightnt they override the kinds of things we as human beings are doing in the short term?	True
It also caused the community to become infested with flies the complaint states.	Wright said there are many reasons waste is sometimes transported out of state.	In South Carolina a plan to store radioactive nuclear waste in a rural area prompted complaints that the state was being turned into a nuclear dump.	Rural parts of Alabama are prime targets for landfills that accept out of state waste it argued meaning that Alabama was becoming a dumping ground for the rest of the nation.	Alabamas inexpensive land and permissive zoning laws and a federal ban on dumping New Yorkers excrement in the ocean got the poop train chugging experts say.	False
Instead experts point to other elements making the storm's impact worse which they know are related to climate change.	On Sunday a spokesman for UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said he was appealing for additional resources from the international community to fund the response in the immediate medium and longer term.	It is unclear if these deaths are recorded in the government total.	It's raining again and the second flight couldn't go.	But attempts to reach those areas had not been entirely successful.	False
To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced.	Congress should address that at some point.	... Those are things so important to citizens of Florida right now and to discuss the cause and effect of these storms there's the... place and time to do that it's not now.	My focus has to be on ... these areas that I described he said.	All I'm saying to you is to use time and effort to address it at this point is very very insensitive to this people in Florida.	True
I think I know more about the environment than most people he added.	A lot of people dont understand that Trump said citing his experience filing environmental impact statements for real estate developments.	On windmills.	The heads of government of the other six nations that comprise the G 7 were there.	Im an environmentalist.	True
Wind farms across the globe kill thousands of birds a year that inadvertently fly into their turbines.	They submitted their concerns to theU.S.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of Energy.	This is far from the first time bird advocates have lamented over wind turbines.	True
Roxanne Quimby co founder of Burts Bees cosmetics and her foundation purchased tracts of land in the northern reaches of Maine with the purpose of creating a national park.	Environmental groups have vowed legal action to stymie any alterations to the protected areas.	Another Obama creation the marine monument was designated in September 2016 and sits off the New England coast.	The area was protected to safeguard an ecosystem of deep sea corals three species of whale and an endangered species of sea turtle the Kemps ridley.	Declared by President George W Bush in 2009 and expanded by Obama in 2014 the monument covers 480000 square miles in marine areas to the south and west of Hawaii.	True
The nascent field of attribution science attempts to explain how climate change may affect characteristics of a given hurricane using models in what if mode.	Such research requires a faithful reproduction of events and predictions of the future constrained by subjective choices within computer models.	By focusing on whether climate change caused a hurricane journalists fail to appreciate the complexity of extreme weather events.	Anyone trying to score political points after a natural disaster should take a deep breath and review the science first.	Even as we worked to divine exactly where the hurricanes would land a media narrative began to form linking the devastating storms to climate change.	True
Jerry Brown a Democrat blamed man made global warming for the states rash of intense fires in the last couple of years however wildfire experts and conservatives tend to blame poor land management policies coupled with the expansion of human development into fire prone areas.	California Gov.	President Donald Trump blamed bad environmental laws for making wildfires spreading across California much worse in a Sunday tweet.	RELATED NYT Claims Global Greening From CO2 Is Terrible Gets Owned State officials said the Carr Fire was sparked in late July by a flat tire on a trailer scraping against the asphalt on a road near Redding California.	However its unclear how diverting water into the Pacific Ocean affects wildfires in California.	True
The people have been heard and will continue to be heard Brune said.	I pledged to take action and today I am keeping that promise he said.	Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club released a statement saying that millions of Americans concerned about the dangers of offshore drilling will not be drowned out regardless of the oil lobbys influence over Trump.	Greenpeace USAs senior climate and energy campaigner Diana Best also released a statement condemning Trumps executive order.	On Thursday night Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke briefed the press on the contents of the executive order.	True
Theyve said the same thing before Sen. Marco Rubio R Fla. said adding that his responsibility was to balance those interests raised in that report with his states broader economic and security interests.	a climate change skeptic said of the actions urged by the report.	We should be doing everything we can said Natalie Mahowald a climate scientist at Cornell University and lead author of the reports first chapter.	Thats the main thing about getting to the emmissions goal is just how aggressively we have to act in every different sector of our society.	On Wednesday he claimed that the panel recognized by others as the worlds leading authority on climate change had been totally discredited and dismissed its latest findings.	True
And the activity of this range could have worrying consequences they have warned.	He set up the project with the help of Bingham.	It is something we will have to watch closely Bingham said.	The discovery is particularly important because the activity of these volcanoes could have crucial implications for the rest of the planet.	That is something we need to determine as quickly as possible.	True
ORourke the former Texas congressman made climate change the focus of his first major policy announcement unveiling the plan ahead of a campaign stop meeting with scientists at the iconic Yosemite National Park in California.	The greatest threat we face which will test our country our democracy every single one of us is climate change ORourke said in a statement.	The bill will be funded with the revenues generated by structural changes to the tax code that ensure corporations and the wealthiest among us pay their fair share and that we finally end the tens of billions of dollars of tax breaks currently given to fossil fuel companies ORourkes legislative proposal states.	Environmental group the League of Conservation Voters on Monday praised ORourkes plan saying that it offered the kind of leadership we need from the next president.	The plan lays out a series of executive actions that would reverse the energy dominance policies of President Donald Trump who has been rolling back environmental regulation to increase domestic fossil fuels production.	True
In fact the challenge before us is a case study in market failures to suggest that market based policies on their own will solve this existential challenge is nave at best.	This summer in the midst of unprecedented chaos and dysfunction in Washington California lawmakers stepped up with a bipartisan solution to one of the most pressing challenges facing our state this nation and the world.	Thats why Californias comprehensive suite of climate policies including our mandates to generate clean energy improve energy efficiency and reduce vehicle tailpipe emissions strikes a necessary balance between market based and direct regulations.	Cap and trade is an important tool in Californias climate policy portfolio.	Most importantly policies that directly reduce pollution are our most effective tools to improve public health and quality of life in the most disproportionately impacted communities.	False
For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	So congressman its like this in calculus terms.	This would be dT dt where capital T is temperature and and the lower case is time or congressmans staff if out there thats the problem.	Bill Nye took on Republican Rep. Thomas Massey who claims to be an electrical engineer but he doesnt understand climate change.	So congressman or the congressmans staff heres the hockey stick graph that you guys love to go off thats been debunked.	False
But the test of these election promises will be in how theyre implemented.	Thats why Tuesdays results are a big deal for Virginia voters who want the state to do more to limit climate change.	Candidates like Joshua Cole who won the election for Virginias 28th House District campaigned on environmental action including upgrading infrastructure to make it more resilient and deploying clean energy.	Ralph Northam to fulfill his long thwarted ambition of bringing Virginia into the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative RGGI a compact among nine East Coast states to cap and trade greenhouse gas emissions credits.	Young Virginia voters said climate change was a top tier concern.	True
As a responsible developing country Chinas plan determination and policy to tackle climate change is resolute Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang told the Associated Press.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Why the push abroad?	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	Coal workers also travel to these projects keeping them from losing their jobs.	False
Thanks to scientific knowledge we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods such as the Paris Accord which sadly some have abandoned he said.	In his Spanish language address to the U.N. agency Francis denounced negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet and the greed for profit.	We cant be satisfied by saying someone else will do it' the pope said.	Many world leaders have criticized Trump for deciding to pull out.	The yoke of poverty caused by the often tragic movement of migrants can be removed by prevention consisting of development projects that create jobs and offer the capacity to respond to climactic and environmental changes he said.	False
We are appreciative that each of you has an important point of view and you should know that we are taking the time to understand your concerns he said.	The thrust of the text argues Prof John Walsh chief scientist at the University of Alaska's International Arctic Research Center actually echoes the approach of the Obama administration.	Although the logic of the statement insists that human activity is causing climate change the word human is not actually present.	We're going to work to make the right decision for the United States.	They signed an agreement which stated there was a need for urgent global action.	True
Carol Browner who served as the agencys chief from 1993 to 2001 said Pruitt was wrong to cast California as wielding outsize influence over the regulations.	The agency also said it planned to reconsider how climate change factored in to regulation noting that the social cost of carbon and energy security valuation ... should also be updated to be consistent with the literature and empirical evidence.	This is all just another case of this administration wanting to make good on their political rhetoric and in this case not even wanting to make good for our own automakersMcCarthy now the director of Harvard Universitys Center for Health and the Global Environmenttold HuffPost.	The decision prompted sharp criticism from former EPA administrators.	She noted that the Golden State compromised on a number of rules including a zero emissions vehicle program.	False
Sher who was with Sher Leff at the time allegedPawas group Pawa Law Group failed to distribute money from a settlement in the case.	They also accuse energy companies of trying to downplay the harms their products allegedly cause.	Hagens Berman and Sher Edlings dramacomes after New York fileda lawsuit in October against Exxon for allegedly downplaying for decades the risk the companys oil products pose on the climate.	Two of the attorneys representing various cities in climate litigation against oil companies have a history of suing and counter suing each other over personal squabbles according to documents obtained by The Daily Caller News Foundation.	Exxon was made to pay roughly 29 percent of market share which equaled roughly 236372664 at the time of the lawsuit.	False
EVIL' His plan which he is putting forward in a House resolutioninvolves a number of planks including revisitingglobal trade and intellectual property policies to create an international marketplace fair to American innovators.	The question for America is pretty simple either we want a bunch of bureaucrats in Washington telling us what we cant do or we empower American innovators to unlock things that we can do the Florida congressman said at a press conference in front of the Capitol building.	I didn't come to Congress to argue with a thermometer and I think that more of my colleagues need to realize that the science of global warming is irrefutable he said.	Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Andrew Wheeler was asked in January at his confirmation hearing if he believed warnings from scientists about the threats of climate change.	Traditionally Republicans have been more skeptical about mans influence on the climate.	True
Children are powerful drivers of change because they go home and talk to their parents about it says Zana Kontamanoli.	Plastic pollution is very complex and there's not one solution says Jo Royle.	Paros was chosen because its changes in population give it complexity and because she found out when she visited the island that people were already working on the issue.	And while many residents are enthusiastic about the project there are still some that need convincing.	Paros residents Stella Cervello and Zana Kontamanoli are behind the Clean Blue Paros initiative that involves the local municipality as well as several NGOs.	False
The researchers study in Nature provided no proof oftheclaim global warming is caused by humans or that global warming will cause the severe problemsCampbell said it will in the quotes provided by the UC Merced article.	He says despite the researchers findings which clearly show global warming helps plantsand thus also helping humans and animalsglobal warming has many negative effects too such as causing climate change which will increase flooding of coastal cities extreme weather and ocean acidification.	Campbell said the evidence shows a fundamental shift in the Earths plants and that global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race.	The leading candidates are rising atmospheric CO2 levels a result of emissions from human activities longer growing seasons a result of climate change caused by CO2 emissions and nitrogen pollution another result of fossil fuel combustion and agriculture the article also claims.	The study did however show increased carbon dioxide levels have generally helped plants and crops.	False
Wall Street Journal Talal Ansari Harvey Weinstein says he should receive thanks and recognition for helping women in Hollywood advance their careers.	This story is part of a group of stories called Vox Sentences is your daily digest for whats happening in the world.	Terah Lawyer program coordinator for the Homecoming Project speaking to the impact of the project Watch this What makes Delhis air so deadly How Indias air quality plummeted and why its a danger to the public.	YouTube Christina Thornell and Mac Schneider How a denial of tenure at Harvard became a national controversy Healthcare.gov glitches almost ruined the end of open enrollment.	NBC29 CJ Paschall Another potential issue that is concerning researchers is the obfuscation of the data due to the new policy of differential privacy that is designed to protect individual responses.	False
Well this is the end result of that decision.	They were afraid that it would end up hurting whichever candidate goes into the general election next year.	Ten Democratic presidential hopefuls will appear in New York at back to back town halls on Wednesday September 4 taking audience questions about their climate plans as scientists sound the alarm about global warming.	Here are the details of this marathon non debate town hall Id rather fall into a 40000 foot deep man made hole in Russia than watch Democrats tell us how were all going to die in 12 years if we dont get rid of fossil fuels.	We told you last week that the DNC refused to allow their 2020 Democratic candidates to debate the issue of Climate Change.	False
Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants alleged California activities to plaintiffs harm.	Trial lawyers with Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled climate lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings called a contingency fee.RELATED Trial Lawyers Handling Cities Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions Hagens Bermanstood to earn billions of dollarsin contingency fees depending on the total winnings from a favorable judgement against oil companies.	They argue that Exxon and others should pony up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change.	From all that appears in the amended complaints howeverthis worldwide chain of events Exxons oil production does not depend on a particular defendants contacts with California he said.	His decision follows a ruling the judge made in June dismissing both cases on the grounds that Congress not the court system is responsible for addressing the emission of greenhouse gasses.	True
By using this alternative approach we are able to highlight where there are operational risks.	Lawmakers pointing to President Donald Trump's skepticism about climate change and his administration's steady rollback of measures meant to mitigate the impacts of global warming were scathing.	Former Secretary James Mattis recognized and affirmed this fact.	And Rep. Jim Langevin a Rhode Island Democrat who sits on the House Armed Services Committee said he was deeply disappointed.	Those omissions are just one reason lawmakers greeted the Congressionally mandated report with eviscerating criticism on Friday.	False
For their part farmers said they received far less water than promised by state and federal authorities.	Its worth taking a moment to be grateful for all the rain and snow out there Felicia Marcus chair of the State Water Resources Control Board told reporters on a conference call after the governors announcement.	The 2015 order led environmentalists to complain that the state which leads the nation in production of fruits and vegetables did too little to force farmers to conserve water.	California officials have credited residents for doing their part to conserve water by taking shorter showers and ripping out grass lawns to install landscaping that requires minimal irrigation among other measures.	Brown also said the need for conservation continued.	True
The report is not without its controversies.	He has criticized the medias handling of similar reports.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	They used a Representative Concentration Pathway adopted by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes IPCC fifth Assessment Report AR5 to make their conclusions.	True
This is just one more foolhardy move by a misguided administration that will be judged harshly by future generations said David Doniger senior strategic director of the Climate Clean Energy program at the Natural Resources Defense Council.	EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler a former coal industry lobbyist echoed that argument in announcing the proposed rule change.	This would ease an Obama era rule that was a central target in critics' accusations of a war on coal.	Today's proposal is nothing more than another thoughtless attempt by the Trump Administration to prop up their backwards and false narrative about reviving coal at the expense of science public safety and reality said Mary Anne Hitt senior director of Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign.	By replacing onerous regulations with high yet achievable standards we can continue America's historic energy production keep energy prices affordable and encourage new investments in cutting edge technology that can then be exported around the world said Wheeler.	True
Adam Koniuszewski project leader of the Gorbachev Climate Change Task Force a think tank that focuses on global challenges posed by climate change agreed with Whitman.	We have many priorities at the agency.	It's a shame for us to lose our leadership position said Christine Todd Whitman the EPA administrator during the George W. Bush administration.	What we need to do is make sure the transition to clean energy which is inevitable is a just and fair transition one that helps coal dependent communities and workers make transitions into other kinds of jobs Becker said.	We can come up with better ways to provide power to people and still keep jobs.	True
His advocacy on the issue goes back many years he lost his seat in Congress after voting for the 1994 assault weapons ban.	While Mr. Inslee has made clear that he intends to focus overwhelmingly on climate change he is on the record supporting liberal policies in many other areas.	Mr. Inslee also tried unsuccessfully last year to get the Washington Legislature to vote on a carbon tax which would have been the first in the nation voters rejected the proposal in November.	While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels Washington had the highest G.D.P.	His environmental policy record in his home state is long.	True
Dr. Chris Brierley UCL Geography lead author said The possibility that humans could have had a stabilising influence on the environment has significant implications.	We contest the common narrative that past human environment interactions must always be one of over exploitation and degradation.	Previous studies have put the blame for the collapse of the 'Green Sahara' onto these nomads who have often been marginalised in history but this latest studies dispels that myth.	The model found that the 'Green Sahara' should have collapsed earlier than it did.	The fact that societies practising 'pastoralism' persisted in this region for so long and invested both economically and ideologically in the local landscape does not support the scenario of over exploitation.	False
A scenario where were all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed.	When pie in the sky thinking meets end of times conspiracy theories we get something like this.	All we have to do is give up our common sense.	The cost of this ten year plan?7 trillion.	Still Ocasio Cortez believes that if this plan gets put into action itll solve every problem under the sun including racism and bigotry.	False
But how impactful can individual action be in the absence of systemic changes from the top?	Eventually it dawned on me that I should maybe bring my actions into alignment with my beliefs.	Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research no part may be reproduced without the written permission.	Some people like Tarek Maassarani take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes.	Kalmus who has written a book on his experiences said meeting critical goals to avert disaster will require a rapid cultural transformation and acts of individual defiance help achieve that.	True
Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a not for profit group promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency especially when it comes to climate changing carbon emissions.	Lakely the Heartland spokesman responded that he had shared the article with colleagues asking them to jump to your aide sic and defend this position.	Its not clear from the email however who initiated the attempt to rally conservatives for the public hearing.	It demonstrates the agencys dedication to advancing President Trumps agenda of environmental stewardship and regulatory certainty he said.	True
Earlier this week Zinke blamed environmental terrorist groups for California's destructive wildfires in an interview with Breitbart Radio.	However Zinke also reiterated an argument that he made earlier this week blaming environmental groups for preventing dead trees from being cleared due to their opposition to the logging industry.	When asked by CBS News reporter Weijia Jiang whether he accepted that climate change was part of the problem Zinke said of course.	Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke suggested that climate change may have a role in the recent wildfires that have ravaged California.	He also acknowledged that temperatures are rising.	True
Exxon admitted there were issues at its plants in a regulatory filing to the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.	In this case it caused product to spill to the ground.	It added it was taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment.	Oil giant Exxon Mobil is among the companies to report incidents of emissions released at its refineries as a result of the hurricane which ransacked coastal parts of Texas and caused widespread flooding in the countrys fourth biggest city Houston.	This effectively means the affected companies can report whatever they wish without any oversight from the state regulators.	False
I select my piece.	Dressed up for the part in chef's whites traditional hat and red apron the sustainable conservation expert is perfect for the role.	I'm not entirely convinced.	I ask.	I'm hovering in a makeshift kitchen watching one of Italy's most eminent marine biologists gleefully playing chef.	True
Members of Congress Democratic and Republican must ensure accountability for this rogue administrator.	History provides precedents of how the boundless zealotry of new wrecking crews ultimately leads to self inflicted wounds and scandals.	Lets be clear about what is at issue here.	Mr. Pruitt makes himself vulnerable with all the ex parte contacts and corporate advisors to many serious offenses including a violation of the procedures of the Federal Advisory Committee Act b conflict of interest rules c violation of both criminal and civil laws by the overreaching industry lobbyists who constitute Pruitts tight cadre of clenched jawed political appointees.	He is also hostile to the precautionary principle which shifts the burden of proof to the progenitors of new chemical or particulate or gas into the environment.	False
According to a study that is often drawn upon to make the case for liability the two largest contributors to the rise in CO2 emissions since 1980 are Saudi Aramco and Gazprom the state owned oil companies of Saudi Arabia and Russia.	As David Bookbinder at the Niskanen Center notes while all of the complaints are grounded in the energy companies alleged accountability for rising sea levels they fall into two essential categories.	We are expected to believe that energy companies covered up the damage done by fossil fuels and yet publicly available industry funded research is cited as evidence that the companies were aware of the harms they were causing.	The other plaintiffs namely San Mateo County Marin County and Imperial Beach are employing a much more scattershot strategy not only in the number of defendants that they name nearly 40 but in alleging design defect failure to warn negligence and trespass in addition to public nuisance.	As the eminent legal scholar Richard Epstein puts it If youre going to need a system of regulation you can do that in a thousand different ways but erratic independent lawsuits in separate courts by separate people is the wrong way to go.	True
Another problem which compounds the first is that they get greedy.	But sometimes it takes a stunt to expose an even bigger one.	They might also think they missed a crucial plot point if the protagonists proposed a sweeping government effort to stop the meteor and then when given the opportunity to vote for it voted present in protest.	First they are their own worst enemy when it comes to maintaining credibility.	Following Hollywood convention once you got past the part where the maverick scientist or precocious kid discovering it struggles to convince the world about the threat youd expect the president or the military to leap into action.	True
These omissions require a remand with instructions to the Department to satisfy its obligations under NEPA Morris wrote.	However Morris argued that the department had not given areasoned explanation for how it came to this conclusion.	Morris had ruled in August that the State Department had to reach a conclusion on the environmental impacts of the pipeline but determined Thursday that the departments analysis had left out information he considered to be crucial.He also accused the State Department of usingoutdated information about potential environmental impacts instead ofthe best scientific and commercial data available.	In a 54 page decision Judge Brian Morris of the U.S. District Court in Montana granted an injunction to the Indigenous Environmental Network and Northern Plains Resource Council against the U.S. State Department the TransCanada Keystone Pipeline and the TransCanada Corporation.	TransCanada has claimed that the pipeline would result in few oil spills by decreasing the amount of oil being transported by rail and lower greenhouse gas emissions by lowering the amount of oil being transported by ocean tanker.	False
He gave a speech at the opening ceremony of the summit and said We are facing a man made disaster of global scale.	'There's absolutely no doubt that the Trump effect has created a sense of uncertainty in terms of the political commitment to achieve anything close to a 2C target.'	It also claims it has soured the atmosphere and damaged goodwill in the international arena.	A study fromthe Institute of International and European Affairs says Trump's decision has created the 'moral and political cover for others to follow suit' in leaving the agreement.	It read 'What ministers and other leaders say and do in Katowice at COP24 will help determine efforts for years to come and either bring the world closer to meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement including protecting those most vulnerable to climate change or push action further down the road.	True
We need a vision and a plan to not willful ignorance.	Unacceptable and immoral.	Ignoring the overwhelming evidence only sets us back further in addressing this serious threat said Sen. Jeanne Shaheen D N.H..	The reports lead researcher had earlier accused the Trump administration of attempting to censor the study by removing all mentions of human caused climate change.	Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt was reportedly an advocate of holding red teamblue teamdebates to publicly critique climate science but that idea wasultimately blocked by the White House reported The New York Times in March.	False
While advocates of climate common sense are pleased with the recent court decisions the acceptance that humans are causing dangerous climate change by the oil and gas defendants is very disappointing.	New York Citysoughtmonetary damages from BP Chevron Conoco Phillips ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell as compensation for damage caused by dangerous global warming allegedly caused by the companies.	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	Judge Keenanruledthat it would thus be illogical to allow the City to bring state law claims when courts have found that these matters are areas of federal concern that have been delegated to the Executive Branch as they require a uniform national solutionGlobal warming and solutions thereto must be addressed by the other two branches of government.	Other state entities alsoinitiatedlegal action this year.	True
When the US Geological Survey last week announced a major discovery of oil and natural gas underneath Texas and New Mexico Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke called it a gift.	Zinke's position involves the dual and sometimes competing roles of overseeing leases to develop resources such as oil natural gas and minerals and preserving federal lands for wildlife and human recreational uses.	American strength flows from American energy and as it turns out we have a lot of American energy.	The United States was willing to note the report and express appreciation to the scientists who developed it but not to welcome it as that would denote endorsement of the report the State Department said in a statement.	Countries were asked to welcome the report put out by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change which says governments around the world must take rapid far reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society to avoid disastrous levels of global warming.	True
Mr Dreher says that the ESA was designed by Congress to say that the value of life on earth is priceless and that politicians should not have to decide whether it is too expensive to prevent extinction.	If we made those decisions you can see under different administrations we would end up protecting nothing.	Who knows what a frog is worth?	Wolves which were re introduced in the lower 48 states have faced criticism from ranchers and farmers who argue that they have impacted their livelihood by killing their livestock.	The US government says they want the language clarified to make it clear that it extends only as far as wildlife officials can reasonably determine that both the future threats and the species' response to those threats are probable.	True
Another wrote 'Interesting how a leader that acts like a child is yelling at a child who acts like a leader'.	'Greta embodies the moral authority of the youth activist movement demanding that we act immediately to solve the climate crisis.	'For sounding the alarm about humanity's predatory relationship with the only home we have for bringing to a fragmented world a voice that transcends backgrounds and borders for showing us all what it might look like when a new generation leads Greta Thunberg is TIME's 2019 Person of the Year' the media franchise said Wednesday on its website.	Her angry accusations that world leaders are failing the younger generation have made headlines including her shouts of 'How dare you?'	Former Vice President Al Gore said Wednesday 'Brilliant decision for to choose as its Person of the Year.	True
Gov.	He then laid out the penalties for failing to meet federal requirements which include losing federal highway dollars.	Wheeler says California represents a disproportionate share of the backlog of such plans.	This letter is a threat of pure retaliation Newsom says.	I just think it's so ironic that the EPA is chastising California which has been so progressive in working towards cleaner air more than any other place in the country says Janet McCabe who was an EPA official during the Obama administration and now directs Indiana University's Environmental Resilience Institute.	False
Even a number of major energy companies have come forward in support of charging businesses for the amount of carbon they release into the atmosphere.	Initiative 1631 for example was supposed to serve as a bellwether for how similar legislation could fare across the country.	The idea that a carbon fee is the way out of this mess is something we need to be pushing back on.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	False
Proponents of the theory humans are primarily responsible for rising global temperatures long claimed wildlife are harmed significantly by global warming and that unless mankind stops producing significant amounts of carbon dioxide emissions the worlds animals will not be able to thrive.	USA Today recently declared the loss of sea ice terrifying but global warming skeptics have long suggested these claims are overblown when put into perspective.	About 2 million square km of Arctic sea ice are estimated to have been lost since 1979.	This is the conclusion of researchers in the periodical Polar Biology the press release said.	It will without doubt have come to your Lordships knowledge that a considerable change of climate inexplicable at present to us must have taken place in the Circumpolar Regions by which the severity of the cold that has for centuries past enclosed the seas in the high northern latitudes in an impenetrable barrier of ice has been during the last two years greatly abated.	False
Many including Venice's mayor have blamed the disaster on global warming and warned that Italy a country prone to natural disasters must wake up to the risks posed by ever more volatile seasons.	The damage it's causing to monuments and the people is worrying she said wondering if climate change was to blame.	We need to be resilient and adapt.	But for the people who live here it's a real problem Litschauer said cradling her white Chihuahua Pablo.	A massive infrastructure project called MOSE has been under way since 2003 to protect the city but it has been plagued by cost overruns corruption scandals and delays.	True
Sometimes the pot calls the kettle black.	Even Milton Friedman understood the existence of market externalities the fact that damage to our environment is not accounted for in the free market without placing some sort of price signal.	They end up helping certain wealthy people to the disadvantage of the less fortunate.	On the face of it that admission may seem like a shift coming from a man who with his brother David bankrolled a conservative movement bent on hacking away environmental regulations and helped transform the GOP into the only major political party in the developed world to deny the overwhelming evidence of manmade global warming.	But in this case the kettle is filled with a solution to clean up the greasy mess left behind by the pot.	True
Greta Thunberg saw her power in us and we in turn see our power in her March for Our Lives co founder Emma Gonzlez wrote of Thunberg for TIME adding that Greta is inspiring steadfast students and shaming apathetic adults.	RELATED Another Canadian Province Boots Liberals Out Of Power Over Carbon Taxes Environmentalists even some climate scientists are increasingly promoting Thunbergs actions in an effort to draw more young people into climate activism.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	I want you to act as if the house was on fire Thunberg said in a speech to European Parliament Tuesday.	Climate change is our reality and youth activists like Greta are doing everything within their power to work against it and demand a change Gonzlez wrote.	True
Kavanaugh addressed that in the hydrofluorocarbons case Under the Constitution congressional inaction does not license an agency to take matters into its own hands even to solve a pressing policy issue such as climate change.	In environmental cases judges often must sort out who has the legal standing to challenge regulations or push for protections.	William Buzbee a Georgetown Law professor who teaches constitutional and environmental law said Kavanaugh often rules that either Congress didn't delegate duties clearly enough to the EPA or that the agency wasn't carrying them out correctly in contrast with a history of judges giving wide latitude to agencies to try to solve problems.	In a speech last year at the American Enterprise Institute Kavanaugh praised the late Justice Antonin Scalia for applying a principle laid out by Chief Justice William Rehnquist to an EPA case.	In 2010 he wrote the majority opinion for a divided panel when trucking groups sued the EPA over California's regulations for engines such as those that power refrigeration systems on trucks.	False
The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel On Climate Changes IPCC newly released climate report once again found little to no evidence global warming caused many types of extreme weather events to increase.	But dont expect to hear that from many other media outlets especially those that often cite individual weather events as evidence of man made warming.	Delegates are expected to make further commitments to implement the Paris climate accord that calls for limiting future warming below 2 degrees Celsius by 2100.	For example The Washington Posts write up of the IPCCs report focused on the mainline findings namely that the world is woefully off target to keep future global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	Pielke pointed out this inconvenient data.	True
The United States of America has disproportionately contributed to the climate and ecological crises and to preventing a transition away from fossil fuels and Americans thus bear an extraordinary responsibility to solve the crises the text reads.	To read through the text one would think that global warming has been behind every catastrophe and uprising on the planet.	Humanity must restore a safe level of greenhouse gas concentrations and global average temperatures well below todays levels and back to pre industrial levels as quickly as possible it states.	While one can only have pity on local residents who must live under the heavy boot of the unhinged Berkeley City Council the rest of the nation can offer a collective sigh of relief that their power extends no further.	Despite the Councils dire warnings however it turns out that scientists themselves are far less certain that Berkeleys elite council members.	False
Words do not suffice in a tragedy like this.	And sometimes I wonder whether any amount of evidence could convince you to act.	This is a time for action action to care for our fellow citizens in the face of disaster and action to prevent a systemic worsening of the climate crisis by heeding the warning and doing what is right.	Senators I hope that you will take some time to reflect.	After all we have a surplus of evidence.	True
Abbott himself lost his job as Australias prime minister at least in part because he was found guilty of wrongthink onclimate change which he once famously described as crap.The man who replaced him as prime minister Malcolm Turnbull unfondly known as the Honourable Member for Goldman Sachs is himself a leading tentacle of the Green Blob.	When the wind doesnt blow and the sun doesnt shine the power doesnt flow.	Even those politicians who might nurture doubts in private almost never express them in public.	Some of us knew this already.	Butyou rarely hear itsotrenchantly expressed by a former world leader as it was in London yesterday by Aussie ex Prime Minister Tony Abbott in ahard hitting must read speech for the Global Warming Policy Foundation.	False
The simple moral truth is that United States is by far the worlds largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it they added.	We cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment said the church leaders the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co Cathedral.	The church leaders slammed Daines for having the audacity to challenge the overwhelming scientific consensus that emissions from farms and burning fossil fuels are trapping heat in the atmosphere and causing the planet to warm.	inan op edpublished by the Missoulian Thursday for failing to understand climate changes role in a widespread fish kill in Yellowstone National Park last summer.	Daines who earned a bachelors degree in chemical engineering before entering politics received a paltry 3 percent lifetime score from the League of Conservation Voters which ranks lawmakers by how they vote on environmental legislation.	False
I was fighting back against corporate greed and this constant disregard for public health.	I wanted to come and help.	For me those young people I saw at that church that was me 15 years ago Tlaib said in a phone interview.	That movement work is critical to moving the needle.	As a Michigan state legislator Tlaib fought to reduceair and water pollution in Detroit and put environmental justice at the center of her campaign.	True
Caught in a pile of lies the campaign responded with a strikingly similar excuse To the degree it wasn't attributed it was an oversight or inadvertent Biden's 1988 campaign aide told the New York Times.	Like this story?	Biden's habit of plagiarism dates back to his first presidential campaign in 1988 when he lifted a popular speech from a UK politician that mischaracterized his own family background implyinghe was descended from coal miners and the first in his family to attend university.	The candidate complained the fuss over his plagiarism was much ado about nothing and blamed rival campaigns for blowing the issue out of proportion.	Compounding the gaffe the Carbon Capture Coalition's membership includes the country's largest fossil fuel companies not such strange bedfellows for Biden who received a D grade from Greenpeace last week largely due to his lack of environmental policy but less than ideal for a candidate trying to reinvent himself as green.	False
Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club boasted that his organization and other activists are responsible for the closure of scores of dirty power plants.	Together we have worked with local grassroots activists and partners in the nations most vulnerable communities to secure the retirement of 259 dirty power plants and the promise of a brighter future putting at the center of our work a transition that leaves no one behind and that demands good paying family sustaining jobs for workers who depended on the fossil fuel economy Brune said.	Our movement is growing and our momentum is unstoppable.	EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt who was one of the first Attorneys General to sue the EPA over the Clean Power Plan is now undertaking the repeal of the Obama era clean energy power grab.	Instead of Obamas stifling energy regulations the Trump administration will promote policies thatfavorAmerican energy dominance.	True
He moved to lay blame on forest management policies during the visit instead even suggesting that raking would help stop the scourge of wildfires claims he appeared to repeat in his interview with the Post on Tuesday.	One of the problems that a lot of people like myself we have very high levels of intelligence but were not necessarily such believers said Trump speaking to the Posts Josh Dawsey and Philip Rucker.	Its based on modeling.	Without such action the planet faces a slew of devastating effects including a mass die off of coral reefsan increase in the severity of natural disasters such as wildfires and a global economic hit in the trillions of dollars according to a recent United Nations study.	... Its not data driven White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said at a news briefing Tuesday.	True
Merkley thanked him and then let him have it.	During a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing on Wednesday Senator Jeff Merkley D OR took EPA appointee William Wehrum to task over his inability to acknowledge that greenhouse gases do have a major impact on temperature.	The truly maddening part though is that Merkley showed the American people that its not just ignorance its intentional ignorance.	Merkley continued For the rest of the questioning Merkley continued to show just how woefully ignorant the officials in charge of the Environmental Protection Agency are.	They refuse to see it accept being ignorant and continue their refusal to acknowledge that climate change is real and it will have and already has had devastating effects on the planet.	True
Claim 4 When I first met you you were running for president the Department of Energy was one of the federal agencies that you thought was maybe extraneous said Cannon.	Here are four checks on claims from the interview.	Claim 2 When I was governor of Texas we put more wind energy in than any other state in the nation said Perry.	He also threw his support behind a 7 billion electrical transmission project to send renewable energy to communities across the state.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	True
The Associated Press contributed to this report.	I will say this I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars.	I think something's happening.	The report detailed how Earth's weather health and ecosystems would be in better shape if the world's leaders could somehow limit future human caused warming.	But I don't know that it's man made.	True
But many of those expressing outrage including world famous Hollywood actors and businessmen typically fly around the world in private jets that expel mind boggling amounts of carbon dioxide the exact substance climate alarmists say is the cause of climate change.	Can we really be sure that these people take carbon emissions seriously?	They examined the lives of billionaire businessmen Richard Branson Elon Musk and Bill Gates in addition to Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Hillary Clinton.	You can tell by the outraged looks on their faces and the purple rhetoric Carlson said.	To answer that question Carlson said his team compared what the progressives say to how they live.	True
The conclusion?	Not necessarily.	And on that score paper bags fare worse.	Back in 2011 Britains Environment Agency conducted a life cycle assessment of various bag options looking at every step of the production process.	Climate change has become the biggest environmental issue of our time so its worth looking at things from an emissions standpoint.	True
Also left unanswered was how Pruitt came to rent a property tied to a lobbyist with business interests involving his agency.	Ill only pay for nights I use it but need it held vacant all other nights wrote Shaub who has become a frequent critic of what he sees as ethical lapses in the Trump administration.	Though federal regulations typically require federal officials to fly in coach the EPA chief has said he needed to sit in premium seats due to security concerns.	A memo signed by Kevin Minoli contends that Pruitts 50 a night rental payments constitute a fair market rate.	The unusual arrangement has attracted attention in Washington where Pruitt has been under increasing scrutiny for this frequent taxpayer funded travel which has included first class airline tickets.	True
RFS founder and former commissioner Phil Koperberg told the Sydney Morning Herald People are nervous and they have a right to be... the worst is yet to come.	PM Scott Morrison has dismissed accusations linking the crisis to his government's policies.	One woman displayed the charred remains of her home outside Parliament on which she had written Morrison your climate crisis destroyed my home.	People who cannot defend their property from approaching fires have been told they should leave immediately.	The severity of the blazes so early in the fire season has caused alarm and prompted calls for greater action to tackle climate change.	False
Now left unattended and gathering trash and human waste the Trump administration has let them reflect us at our worst.	This story was originally published bytheGuardian.	While the majority of the public will be respectful there will always be a few who take advantage of the opportunity to do lasting damage.	There are other consequences of a shutdown that are less visible but very consequential.	One of my jobs as ranger was to shovel out the fire hydrants every day so that if there was a fire in the hotel headquarters or housing wed be able to fight it.	False
Wheat source of bread and a foundation of life in much of the world will suffer from hotter temperatures and the country where the impact may be greatest also is among least well equipped to cope with a shortfall.	Both trends increase the chances that from time to time farmers will face catastrophic shortages of water.	California the biggest single source of America's fresh vegetables and nuts and the primary source of almonds for the entire world is a dramatic illustration of how subtle shifts in climate can have huge effects.	They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes most of them bad for growing corn.	Add it all up and one study estimates that corn yields in Iowa will fall substantially anywhere from 15 percent to an astounding 50 percent.	True
What risks do protesters take?	Other risks lurk at the Garzweiler site.	Azna Lecuyer of the French branch of Ende Gelaende agrees that we feel a passion for actions of civil disobedience especially among young people.	Tadzio Mueller a German organiser of the movement argues that massively breaking the rules ... is the only thing that works to prevent the status quo in the face of climate chaos.	The group's online action consensus says In view of the urgency of the climate crisis we consider it necessary and appropriate to go one step further from public protest to civil disobedience.	True
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The person in charge of air quality at the EPA William Wehrum was a lawyer and lobbyist for the fossil fuel industry before joining the EPA.	He admitted to the Times that the new method would allow the Trump administration to claim its other changes would cause fewer deaths.	Using an approach described by experts as not scientifically sound the Trump administration will soon change the way it evaluates the harm from coal plants spewing more pollution into the air according to a Monday New York Times report.	Obama's rules would have reduced the amount of dangerous particulate matter in the air by gradually moving energy production to cleaner forms of energy and shutting down older dirtier coal plants.	True
This fudge isnt perfect and it still doesnt solve the problem of the EPAs Obama era Endangerment Finding on carbon dioxide which ludicrously treats a harmless life enhancing trace gas as an existential threat.	But it also lays the groundwork for new presumably weaker regulations by asking for the public and industry to offer ideas for a replacement.	Hence Trumps election trail promise and executive orderin March this yearrequesting EPA chief Scott Pruitt to rescind the CPP.	Had it been implemented the CPP would have required U.S. power plants to lower their carbon emissions by 2030 to 32 percent below 2005 levels.	But some industry groups want a replacement to give utilities regulatory certainty and avoid possible lawsuits by environmental groups.	True
About 141 million Americans live with unhealthful levels of air pollution the report says placing them at risk for premature death lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	Soot pollution is deadlier and more of a health hazard than smog causingmore premature deaths and lung cancer the lung association said.	The bad news about air pollutionspread nationwide in thereport Smog and soot choked air is worsening amid heat waves and bigger wildfires as environmental protections are rolled back.	The state would be much worse off without its strict laws on tailpipe pollution and eliminating coal fired power plants.	California's air quality is worsening despite having the strongest environmental regulations in the nation said John Balmes of the University of California San Francisco at a news conference Tuesday.	True
I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get that result.	Tim Donnellyis a former California State Assemblyman and Author currently on a book tour for his new bookPatriot Not Politician Win or Go Homeless.	Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward.	Instituting such a policy in California would affect the entire car industry globally due to the massive size of Californias car market.	The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California.	False
We are not here to guilt individuals that forgot to recycle a cup last week another young woman said.	We are here to hold cowardice sic politicians accountable who have caused this damage by turning their heads in fear.	Climate Justice.	It is not a coincidence.	The speaker listed the groups demands which will be presented at the U.N. summit A just and livable world where fossil fuels are left out of every decision around the world 100 percent renewable energy around the globe and holding polluters accountable for causing the climate crisis.	False
Its a matter of survival former Kiribati President Anote Tong said after meeting with former U.S. President Barack Obama that year.	That may come as a shock in light of reports that Pacific Islanders in places like Kiribati are becoming climate refugees because of rising sea levels which many scientists blame on greenhouse gas emissions.	That warning was made in 1988 amid heightened urgency about global warming.	For example Duvat found that land reclamation and causeway construction caused major changes in island land area and configuration not only in urban but also in rural atolls.	Scientists worry that future warming could pose problems for low lying islands many of which are no more than a few feet above the water but other human interventions ocean currents and storms likely exert an even bigger role than climate changes.	True
The problem is the age old tragedy of the commons.	We should have higher taxes on the things that science says are probably bad for us than those that are probably good for us.	However those financial gains for Musk depend on higher energy taxes for the nations established manufacturing sectors especially in Midweststates.Breitbart described the economic impact of the climate agreement Unsurprisingly Musk is a strong advocate for growing carbon taxes on natural fuels.	For examplethe Los Angeles Times reported in 2015 thatMusks battery factory in Reno Nevada is reported to have enjoyed roughly 1.3 billion in state subsidies and his SolarCity companyhas gotten 1.5 billion from federal solar regulations.	The common good being consumed is atmospheric and oceanic carbon capacity which currently has a price of zero.	True
Montana Gov.	But I think they need more time to state the case.	Former Colorado Gov.	We can rebuild communities in rural America that have been devastated.	As he often does Sanders pledged to fight back againstthe fossil fuel industry noting that it continues to receive tax breaks and subsidies adding up to hundreds of billions of dollars globally.	False
The rules created potentially unduly burdensome requirements for oil and natural gas production operators on the Outer Continental Shelf without meaningfully increasing safety of the workers or protection of the environment says the new 176 page rule which is scheduled in the coming days to be published in the Federal Register before becoming the administrations final policy.	This rule supports the administrations objective of facilitating energy dominance by encouraging increased domestic oil and gas production and reducing unnecessary burdens on stakeholders while ensuring safety and environmental protection the new rule says.	The Interior Departments Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement which was established after the spill in the Gulf of Mexico and regulates offshore oil and gas drilling has finalized a proposal for loosening the regulations as part of President Trumps efforts to ease restrictions on fossil fuel companies and encourage domestic energy production.	Sign up here for Climate Fwd our email newsletter.	WASHINGTON The Trump administration has completed its plan to roll back major offshore drilling safety regulations that were put in place after the Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster in 2010 that killed 11 people and caused the worst oil spill in American history.	True
Its findings aligned with those of the broader scientific community.	The president who hasrepeatedly cast doubt on the existence and effects of climate change has regularly cited significant winter storms to mock the concept of global warming.	Trump dismissedthe report saying he did not believe its findings and disputing that climate change is man made.	MOREin an early morning tweet on Sunday suggested global warming could be helpful as a massive snowstorm dropped several inches of snow and sent temperatures plunging across the Midwest and swaths of the Northeast United States.	Falling temperatures were expected to create icy surfaces further increasing the risk of travel.	True
But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	But that is where reality tempers the possibilities.	The overall direction if not the magnitude and rate of change laid out in the report is not just possible but essential both financially and environmentally.	Between climate change and reckless exploitation and pollution of rivers streams and lakes Tamil Nadu is staring at a bleak water future.	But first the state must overcome its addiction to coal writes Nityanand Jayaraman.	False
Others were less accusatory.	According to The Guardian anyone who isn't a fervent believer in man made climate change is to blame for Hurricane Michael even the hurricane's victims.	But don't we have a responsibility to mitigate the next disaster?	Denying science has consequences.	Will the devastation wrought by Michael and all future hurricanes be laid at the feet of science deniers?	True
One area legal experts are split on is whether the 2007 decision that greenhouse gases are pollutants will be reconsidered.	He was a gettable fifth vote on decisions Bookbinder said.	Its not like every environmental case was decided 54 Doniger said.	He will be missed David Bookbinder of the Niskanen Center who was the Sierra Clubs chief climate counsel in the 2007 Massachusetts v. EPA decision that designated greenhouse gasses as pollution under the Clean Air Act.	In this case his lone opinion became the law Bookbinder said.	False
Egoism and self interest have turned creation a place of encounter and sharing into an arena of competition and conflict he said.	Too many of us act like tyrants with regard to creation he declared.	He also underscored the forthcoming United Nations Climate Action Summit as of particular importance while proposing that governments will have the responsibility there of showing the political will to take drastic measures to achieve as quickly as possible zero net greenhouse gas emissions.	Referring specifically to fires in the Amazon region Francis called on everyone to take up these opportunities to respond to the cry of the poor and of our earth!	Recent studies have shown that the language of climate change and global warming do not stir up an emotional reaction in people and so climate alarmists have issued an appeal for the use of more powerful expressions to provoke people to action.	True
USA Today also pointed out that California is not the only place where people want more government regulation.	Thats exactly the wrong direction Nilles said.	For natural gas companies its a threat to their existence.	And for some cooks who love to prepare food with flame its an unthinkable loss.	The idea that denying access to natural gas in new homes is necessary to meet emissions reduction goals is false American Gas Association President and CEO Karen Harbert.	False
Those who point to discrepancies in the global warming narrative have also noted that many of the solutions offered by climate change advocates do very little to actually stop carbon emissions and turn back the clock.	The other a critical size or mass corresponds to the total carbon added to the oceans.	They also cite previous doomsday scenarios offered by alarmist scientists that didnt come to fruition including acid rain and global cooling.	One is a critical rate of change corresponding to the rate at which CO2 is added to the oceanatmosphere system.	A geophysics professor from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology says that hes run the numbers on humanity facing a mass extinction event and the numbers are not good.	False
As Naomi Klein argues even the rights fervent conspiracy theorists tend to understand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are for business as usual which has distributed its profits among elites of both parties.	In 2015 Greenpeace activists duped Happer into agreeing to write a report on the benefits of carbon dioxide for a fictional oil company.	William Happer most recently famous for complaining trump science advisor compares climate science 1793497686 that the demonization of carbon dioxide really differs little from the Nazi persecution of the Jews will lead a team charged with reviewing the science produced by government researchers no doubt hunting for references to the disastrous sea level rise crop failures and health impacts continued warming stands to create.	The irony in all of this is that Trump Happer and company may have a firmer grasp on the epic scope of these climate projections than many Democrats.	We cant know whether Happer genuinely believes the nonsense hes spouting or is just being paid well enough to sound like he does.	True
When it comes to advice the agency receives the core concern over the need to avoid conflicts of interest is this Is advice tainted because the entity employing and paying the advisor stands to gain or lose financially from the agency decision that is under advisement?	Pruitt described scientists who received as much as 77 million in grants from the agency while also serving on advisory boards as damaging the perception of independent rule making.	Now instead of independent science guiding the way hired guns for industry will be steering EPA policy on central issues affecting clean air clean water and public health.	Pruitt appointed Paul Gilman as the head of the Board of Scientific Counselors.Gilman currently serves as the chief sustainability officer at the waste management and incinerator company Covanta.He has been a leading advocate for incinerating trash as a source of fuel for electricity.	At a Tuesday afternoon event rolling out the new policy Administrator Scott Pruitt invoked a biblical tale from the book of Joshua in which the pagans are instructed to choose this day whom you will serve either God or the gods of your fathers.	True
Thosematters need to be resolved before the Legislative session ends at the end of the week.	I've done as much as I can and I'll continue to tryCourtney said.	Republicans fled the Senate some even claiming to the leave the state refusing to sign off on a bill that wouldlimit emissions and establishpollution permitsor allowances for each ton of carbon an industry plans to emit.	All we're saying is it shouldn't cost thousands of manufacturing jobs raise the gas tax by 20 cents a gallon to start out with and raise natural gas prices for people who heat their home by almost 50 percent.	Kate Brown also a Democratauthorized the state police to round up the 12 Republicans who walked out of the Statehousein protest of the bill Thursday and bring them back to the Senate floor for a vote but to no avail.	False
President Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal is a giant middle finger to elitists all around the world who want America to suffer simply to promote their global warming alarmism.	I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh not Paris Trump said.	For years liberals like Al Gore and Leonardo DiCaprio have lectured the American public on global warming yet these hypocrites have bigger carbon footprints than millions of poorer peoplecombined traveling around the world in private jets accompanied by a fleet of SUVs.	The White House official said Trump resented the corporate critics who ride in fossil fuel guzzling planes and SUVs then act holier than thou according to Axios.	Throughout much of the 2016 campaign then candidate Donald Trump railed against corporate and global elitists who want to dictate their liberal agenda onto the American public with no understanding of how such liberal policies would harm our economy and the Americanpeople.	True
Unwittingly in conservatives quest for equal treatment of different energy sources they have adopted policies that reinforce governments role in dictating energy outcomes.	Philip Rossetti is a data analyst at the American Action Forum Devin Hartman is electricity policy manager and senior fellow with the R Street Institute.	Conservatives sorely need to define an energy narrative rooted in market principles.	A 2015 Congressional Budget Office report acknowledged that tax credits are less effective at achieving policy goals than alternative market driven policies.	However regulators likely overstated the net benefits of regulations and the Clean Power Plan would have accomplished little at high cost while proving legally vulnerable and politically unstable.	False
John Woodling of the Sacramento Regional Water Authority told the Sacramento Bee that Browns assertion of state power in this area will give it permanent unchecked control over local water management decisions.	Mandating conservation however is drastically different from incentivizing it.	Certainly Californians and everyone else ought to find ways to responsibly use natural resources such as water.	Governor Brown has pushed two contradictory agendas for months.	Even though there is no longer a drought state of emergency in their state Californians will be fined if they wash their automobiles with hoses not equipped with a shut off nozzle water lawns in a way that results in water run off or hose off sidewalks.	True
In response Peter Trelenberg the manager of environmental policy and planning at Exxon Mobil wrote to Mr. Banks Exxon Mobil supports the Paris agreement as an effective framework for addressing the risks of climate change.	Mr. Book the analyst noted that the risks of withdrawing from the Paris deal include not only diplomatic ill will but also the possibility of trade reprisals.	Colin Marshall the chief executive of Cloud Peak a major coal producer in Wyoming the nations largest coal mining state also wrote to Mr. Trump By remaining in the Paris agreement albeit with a much different pledge on emissions you can help shape a more rational international approach to climate policy.	What we say to the White House is that its clearly a terrible agreement for the American people said Tim Phillips the president of Americans for Prosperity.	Daniel M. Bodansky an expert in international environmental agreements at Arizona State University said that remaining in the Paris deal but weakening the United States commitment could still have the effect of generating some ill will but without the repercussions of trade sanctions.	True
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	There are several dangers that would face the colonists.	But what should happen after that first step?	As the early colonists develop a more robust presence they will then be able to devote more effort to establishing further goals.	It will be essential that we map and evaluate all possible resources that could be useful.	True
Corporate America is doing its part.	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	They referred to the irreversible agreement as a vital instrument for our planet societies and economies.	President Trump understands environmental protection is impossible without individual action and private innovation.	DanBackeris a veteran campaign counsel who has worked for more than 100 candidates PACs and political organizations including Great America PAC and the Committee to Defend the President.	False
Workers are often paid far less than the value they create.	Kudlow likened the deal to socialism and called for the American people to put socialism on trial and convict it.	Ocasio Cortez fired back on Twitter and said A living wage isn't a gift it's a right.	The deal proposes guaranteeing a job with a family sustaining wage adequate family and medical leave paid vacations and retirement security to all people of the United States.	It calls for the creation of millions of new high wage jobs to help wipe out poverty.	True
Well I think that both sides have you know their own results from their studies and I appreciate and respect both sides of the science Craft said.	Do you believe there is science that proves that man is not causing climate change?	Asked Do you believe in climate change?	Craft responded I believe there are scientists on both sides that are accurate.	The facts of climate science and the urgency of the climate threat to the US are a nuisance to an administration that has consistently prioritized the demands of the fossil fuel industry to roll back federal policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions.	True
For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Methane makes up 10 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for global warming.	Republican lawmakers worried the Obama era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more.	False
Provide two free years of higher education.	Reconstitute U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE.	Climate change and energy Rejoin the Paris Climate Treaty.	Work with businesses.	Immigration ICE and the border Allow a path to citizenship house committee spars with san antonio mayor.html for most undocumented immigrants.	False
Concern about rising sea levels was one of many factors that inspired the Paris Agreements goal of limiting the rise of global temperatures.	The group states that although this specific crack was not likely caused by climate change the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves contributes to rising sea levels that threaten coastal cities.	We are watching with bated breath the teamwrote.	The ice is already floating so when the fracture breaks all the way through it will simply start to drift away.	When ice shelves disappear ice can flow faster from the land to the ocean and contribute more quickly to sea level rise Adrian Luckman and Martin OLeary of Project MIDAS wrote in February.	False
Scientists say governments businesses and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming fishing forestry mining or infrastructure development.	Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have.	Fortunately the evidence also shows that we know how to protect and partially restore our vital natural assets.	Among the list of the biggest threats to food and water security were pollution climate change and deforestation.	The report conducted by 550 experts from around the world said reduced biodiversity could affect people's quality of life.	True
As that is not likely to happen she said there is no way to know the full scope of the risks.	Petermann said there is a lack of independent research on the long term or even short term consequences of putting genetically engineered trees out into the environment and that the risks could be significant.	She said it was clear that the planet once had rivers and great amounts of water and possibly an atmosphere similar to ours but a global catastrophe had happened.	Petermann said another red flag is wildfires.	Anne Petermann executive director at the Global Justice Ecology Project said the tradition has been for the government to rubberstamp genetically engineered organisms but this would be the first time they are approving a genetically engineered forest tree.	False
In this episode the big problem really seems to have been the agricultural burning assistant professor Thomas Smith of the London School of Economics told the BBC.	The longer the exposure the greater the risks.	And of course it's the elderly who suffer the very young and people with pre existing respiratory illnesses like or heart problems.	And you can't underestimate how important agricultural burning is even though people often think only of cars and heavy industry as the causes.	The result is then classified on a scale from good to hazardous.	False
A fifth generation coal miner from Virginia has spoken out against President Donald Trump's rhetoric surrounding the coal mining industry saying the President is making false promises that are only going to line the pockets of coal executives.	They're a matter of life or death.	In a New York Times op ed video published Tuesday Nick Mullins a ninth generation Appalachian from Virginia said that if Trump wants to help the Appalachian mining communities that support him lowering emission standards is not the way to do it.	We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue he said.	On Tuesday the newly proposed Affordable Clean Energy Rule was announced which would allow states to set their own emission standards for coal fueled power plants.	True
That directive is likely to prompt watchdog groups to sue.	This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters its nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science gut our clean air protections and put polluter profits ahead of our health Sara Jordan a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters said in a statement.	It marks the latest assault on clean air rules putting poor people and communities of color particularly at risk.	People of color breathe in 1.2 times more particulate matter pollution and black people in particular are on average exposed to 1.54 times more particulate matter pollution than the general pollution.	The purpose is that if states make determinations that are somewhat less than the rigor of what might be expected EPA wont second guess it Stan Meiburg a former acting deputy EPA administrator who spent 39 years at the agency told HuffPost by phone.	True
Biden interrupted the girl before she was finished asking By the way did you know Im the guy who did all this?	Read Real Clear Politics it will tell you about how I started this whole thing back in 1987 climate change.	Social media users were quick to criticize Bidens response with some mocking him for saying he had started climate change and others pointing out that his 1987 effort didnt really work out so well.	While he is the first to have a climate bill passed he certainly isnt the first politician to raise the alarm about climate change let alone have started the whole thing.	In 1987 Biden delivered a Senate speech warning of the dangers of global warming and his Global Climate Protection Act called for setting up a task force to plan to tackle the issue.	True
'The eyes of future generations are on you and if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you.	We will not let you get away with this.'	Its donors include heiress Aileen Getty American philanthropist Trevor Neilson and filmmaker Rory Kennedy a member of the political Kennedy clan.	'Yet you have come to us young people for hope.	I shouldn't be up here.I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean.	True
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The new rule is really a dereliction of duty moral ethical but also legal Andres Restrepo a lawyer with the Sierra Club's Environmental Law Program told the Post.	That's the exact opposite of what Trump regularly claims.	Scientists are unclear as to the exact reasons air pollution has gotten worse under Trump but they say its very clear that his policies will make the situation worse.	Air pollution leads to the premature death of 100000 Americans every year the AP reports and Trumps own EPA shows not only worse air pollution but a significant increase in the two worst categories very unhealthy and hazardous conditions.	True
Repairs cost about 90 million.	Time will tell whether better proves good enough said Dave Lochbaum director of a watchdog group the nuclear safety project at the Union of Concerned Scientists.	Nuclear plants also hired more staff and stored equipment needed to deal with reactor problems.	U.S. nuclear operators have taken steps to improve preparations for disasters since Fukushima.	Lochbaum said the NRC and the industry could do more to reduce vulnerability to flooding.	False
Andrew Fountain a geologist at Portland State added While the shrinkage in Montana is more severe than some other places in the US it is in line with trends that have been happening on a global scale.	Rising temperatures Montana is warming nearly twice as quickly as the global average and changes in precipitation patterns are eroding away glaciers in the state and elsewhere along the Rocky mountains.	Its inevitable that we will lose them all over the next few decades Farge said.	The disappearance of glaciers in Montana is part of a broader loss that will see all glaciers defined as moving bodies of snow and ice larger than 25 acres largely vanish from the lower 48 states of America by the mid point of the century according to Dr Daniel Farge lead USGS scientist.	Some have lost as much as 85 of their expanse over the past 50 years with Glacier national park site of 37 of the surveyed glaciers set to lose all of its eponymous ice formations within the next few decades.	True
Jay Inslee and many Democrats and environmentalists who want to fight man made global warming.	Voters from Washington to Florida will be able to partake in important energy policy decisions for their states.	Bill Ritter.	The political battle heated up that month when gas tax opponents threatened to recall Attorney General Xavier Becerra a Democrat for allegedly trying to mislead voters about the proposal.	Steyer pumped more than 20 million into the campaign but opponents accused Steyers group of using forged and fake signaturesto get the green energy mandate on Arizonas ballot.	False
This fire moved so fast I don't think anybody did anything wrong Ms Schori says when asked whether those forced to abandon vehicles and escape on foot could have acted differently.	The majority could be attributed to humans though only 8 were caused by arson.	Sometimes you do fight fire with fire.	According to the National Park Service 90 of wildfires in the US are caused by humans whether by unattended campfires burning debris cigarettes or arson.	Ms Schori of Cal Fire said that with wind driven blazes like the Camp Fire officials often have no choice but to wait for conditions to improve.	False
This story was originally published byHuffPostand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	Yet fears over rising gas prices proved more convincing to Evergreen State voters.	Scientists say such policies are necessary to make the kinds of emissions cuts required to avert the worst impacts of climate change.	The loss came as Coloradans voted down Proposition 112 a measure that would have put about 85 percent of non federal land in the Centennial State off limits to oil and gas drilling.	But Initiative 1631 took a different approach imposing the carbon price in the form of a fee.	True
Gov.	Donald Trump has singlehandedly been working to set back U.S. climate policy 50 years.	Pete Wilson.	The law requires businesses to buy credits based on their volume of greenhouse pollution.	More recently Brown helped found the United States Climate Alliance a group of state and local governments pledging to abide by the Paris climate agreement even after the federal government withdraws.	True
Well as a Christian I believe that there is a creator in God who is much bigger than us.	Do I think man has some impact?	And Im confident that if theres a real problem he can take care of it.	Can man change the entire universe?	Why do I believe that?	True
People are unhappy and that means they may make irrational decisions.	The research was published in the journal Nature Human Behaviour.	But air pollution also has a broader impact on people's social lives and behavior according Siqi Zheng the Samuel Tak Lee Associate Professor in MIT's Department of Urban Studies Pollution also has an emotional cost said Dr Zheng.	It suggests that people were four points unhappier than they would have been without polluted levels.	Researchers at MIT and the University of Beijing discovered a direct link between the amount of particulates in the air and happiness.	False
Many lines of evidence demonstrate that human activities especially emissions of greenhouse heat trapping gases are primarily responsible for recent observed climate changes.	And in June Energy Secretary Rick Perry echoed Pruitts comments saying no when asked byCNBC whether he believes carbon dioxide is the primary control knob for the temperature of the Earth and for climate.	In MarchEnvironmental Protection AgencyheadScott Pruitttold CNBC No I would not agreethat carbon dioxide is a primary contributor to the global warming that we see.	Most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in Perry said.I mean the fact is this shouldnt be a debate about Is the climate changing?	In a post to Twitter Gavin Schmidt a climate scientist and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies said that nothing in the report is surprising for people working in the field but that it may be shocking to those that think climate change is just a future problem.	False
This is the first of perhaps more events like that to come Tina Neal the scientist in charge of the USGS Hawaiian Volcano Observatory said on a conference call of Wednesdays blast which shot projectiles from the crater.	He was asleep on the couch when a fissure opened up 2000 feet 610 meters away spewing out lava and gas.	The 57 year old who recently retired to the area from Orange County California said he had seen drone footage showing lava flowing up his driveway causing two propane tanks to explode.	All we could do was sit there and cry he said.	Evacuee David Nail was anxious to learn if his house had been destroyed.	True
Here's why it matters We now have to monitor this glacier carefully.	he said.	In other words he said If the Ross Ice Shelf destabilizes it should not lead to a collapse of East Antarctica.	He said one of the challenges they faced during the project was gathering all the available data since there have been many radar surveys but done by different institutions in different countries.	The study says that major glaciers flowing through the Transantarctic Mountains and across Victoria Land are found to be protected by broad stabilizing topographic ridges near their grounding lines that reflect the surrounding topographic relief.	False
We simply cannot protect our children and grandchildren from climate catastrophe if EPA lets this industry off scot free said David Doniger a climate and clean energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council.	Susan Dio chairman and president of BP America supported federal regulation of methane in an opinion piece in the Houston Chronicle earlier this year calling it the the best way to help further reduce and ultimately eliminate methane emissions industrywide.	Some large energy companies including BP favor federal regulation of methane saying the regulatory certainty is preferable to a patchwork of varying rules by states and legal challenges by environmentalists.	The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions a major factor in global warming.	If EPA moves forward with this reckless and sinister proposal we will see them in court.	True
Leckie said there was something of a vicious circle when it came to medical prescriptions and climate related disease.	When animals and humans ingest medicines up to 90 percent of active ingredients are excreted back into the environment.	Many medicines are simply discarded in the United States alone an estimated one third of the four billion drugs prescribed each year ends up as waste.	We're seeing constant engineering of new pharmaceuticals and seeing clinical practices evolve to include recommendations of earlier treatment and higher doses said the lead report author Hannah Leckie.	Unless adequate measures are taken to manage the risks pharmaceutical residues will increasingly be released into the environment as ageing populations advances in healthcare and intensification of meat and fish production spur the demand for pharmaceuticals worldwide the report said.	True
As the New York Times points out however there is one crucial way that Wheeler differs from his departing boss.	A number of Pruitt policies are thought to be shoddily constructed and have faced significant legal challenges.	Here are three key facts to know about the person who will soon be overseeing the Environmental Protection Agency.	It appears that Wheeler is on track to do more of the same and his insider instincts and methodical nature could mean even more effective rollbacks.	During Wheelers testimony in a congressional hearing last fall he dodged a question about climate change I believe that man has an impact on the climate but its not completely understood what that impact is he said according to Inside Climate News.	False
At the time Pruitt was the Attorney General of Oklahoma and he and others sued the EPA to overturn the legislation.	Former President Barack Obama had put in place a rule in 2016 that was connected to a regulatory strategy which sought to reduce methane emissions.	Two judges concluded the administration record thus makes clear that industry groups had ample opportunity to comment on all four issues on which EPA granted reconsideration and indeed that in several instances the agency incorporated those comments directly into the final rule.	The courts ruling is yet another reminder now in the context of environmental protection that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the presidents desire to order immediate change Richard Lazarus environmental law professor at Harvard Law School said in an email as reported by the Post.	This includes a two year delay on a certain regulations aimed at minimizing chemical accidents.	True
When the Paris Agreement was being negotiated the U.S. delegation pushed for more transparency and accountability to make sure the countries that signed on would actually do what they promised.	Even though we're the ones who have been pointing to these potential scenarios for problems with other countries we seem to be the biggest problem Light says.	The U.S. even helped spearhead language that would hold countries accountable for the promises they made in part to help guard against regime changes and other global political turmoil.	And so for us to be the exception on this issue is holding the world back.	Each country set its own goals and many wealthy countries including the U.S. also agreed to help poorer countries pay for the costs associated with climate change.	True
We are taking significant action to return power to the states and provide regulatory certainty to our nations farmers and businesses said Scott Pruitt administrator of the EPA.	Once again the Trump administration has agreed to do the bidding of the worst polluters in our country and once again its putting the health of American families and communities at risk said Michael Brune executive director of Sierra Club.	This sets in motion a welcome correction to a deeply problematic regulation that ignored the careful balance that Congress struck between federal and state water regulation and constitutional limits on federal authority said Hal Quinn NMA president and chief executive.	Signing his order the president said thousands of jobs were at risk because the EPA decided that navigable waters can mean nearly every puddle or every ditch on a farmers land or anyplace else that they decide.	Trump has called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation and a massive power grab.	True
Hovenweep is in all of our stories and to threaten the integrity of these structures jeopardizes everything weve carried forward as resilient people.	When this oil and gas leasing happens on or near sacred lands it risks de stabilizing the bedrock of the structures said Ahjani Yepa a member of Utah Din Bikyah a Navajo grass roots organization.	The Bureau of Land Management would benefit from more community outreach and long term planning to lease parcels on sensitive landscapes said Erika Pollard an associate director with the National Parks Conservation Association.	Still environmentalists and Native Americans invested in the land said such documents fail to address a larger trend of leasing increasingly more land on or near sensitive tribal landscapes.	You wouldnt like it if I went into your home your land and started digging.	False
Imagine if research funded by Exxon was sole basis for claims.	University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. pointed out problems with the study on Twitter Saturday including the fact it was funded by groups connected with Bloomberg and Steyer.	That 2017 study published in the journal Science was funded in part by Bloomberg Philanthropies and Next Generation which were founded by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and San Francisco billionaire Tom Steyer respectively.	Andrew Light a distinguished senior fellow at the World Resources Institute and reviewer of the chapter highlighting the Bloomberg Steyer funded study did not respond to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for comment.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	True
For property owners who let the government handle the clean up taxpayers will cover any of the costs of debris removal that insurance doesn't Lamoureux said.	Laney Wall who lost her home in the Sonoma County community of Fountaingrove asked why homeowners had to go through the expense trouble and wait of the clean up at all.	Homeowners shouted questions on matters ranging from their liability in the clean up to the extent that contractors would be scraping bare building sites.	State agencies would handle the same task in five other burned counties.	Many survivors at Monday's forum and in fire zones where people are returning say they are confused about what authorities will allow them to do at their blackened properties before the massive waste removal.	False
And while theres an element of truth to that it misses the big picture.	More nuanced pundits and politicians acknowledge that the science is real but argue that even if it is accurate the consequences might not be so bad or that action would simply be too costly.	Take Trumps nominee to head the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt.	As Brad Plumer wrote last year during Pruitts tenure as Oklahoma attorney general he joined or led state lawsuits to block virtually every major federal regulation around climate and air pollution that Obamas EPA has put forward and professed to believe that the science around climate change was unsettled.	This is the consensus that the vast majority of the Republican Party from donors to politicians to intellectuals to voters has arrived at.	False
Remember what Hillary Clinton said?	Circuit decides on the merits of the GOP industry lawsuit against it.	The sum total of this is to take this issue out of the courts and then give the environmental nazis a new chew toy to play with for several years.	This was a part of Obamas pen and phone way of ruling the country.	Did you ever stop to wonder what they know that the current belly achers dont?	False
Still to be determined whether it was persuasive or consequential.	On the other side President Trump.	But Gentolini and other world leaders weren't just waiting for internal reflection.	He came here to learn.	Climate change and its impacts have been observed by scientists working in multiple fields and the overwhelming scientific consensus is that human activity is the primary cause.	True
Its intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that youre talking about.	Deke Arndt chief of the climate monitoring branch at NOAAs National Centers for Environmental Information described the report as diagnostic when asked if anyone from the White House had weighed in on itor questioned its findings.	Photo GettyEyeEm The evidence behind global climate change continues to mount and scientists keep speaking out.	Now they hope the world will listen.	Were scientists and were providing objective information Jessica Blunden a climate scientist at NOAAs National Climatic Data Center in Asheville N.C. told Yahoo News.	True
The key element is that these three solutions must be implemented together.	Tackling food loss and waste will require measures across the entire food chain from storage and transport over food packaging and labelling to changes in legislation and business behaviour that promote zero waste supply chains said Fabrice de Clerck director of science at EAT who funded the study.	However the study finds that no single solution will avert the dangers so a combined approach is needed.	Fast on the heels of the landmark report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC comes this new study on how food production and consumption impact major threats to the planet.	Without action the impacts of the food system could increase by up to 90.	True
Scott Pruitt the head of the Environmental Protection Agency has said he would not agree that carbon from human activity is the primary cause of global warming while in 2014 Trump referred to it as a hoax.	Does he believe human activity contributes to climate change?	There was a chorus of condemnation from world leaders former president Barack Obama and Trumps defeated election opponent Hillary Clinton who branded it a historic mistake.	Now whats the negotiating process?	implying that Trumps views on the causes of climate change were irrelevant to the Paris decision.	True
Courtneys admission is not rewarding Senate Republicans for bad behavior.	Kate Brown nonetheless last week sent state police to find the lawmakers and instituted a 500 per day fine per person for each day they werent present at a legislative session.	Democratic Gov.	Theres been incredible work going into that bill Courtney said.	On Tuesday some of the Republicans in hiding were not sure what to make of Courtneys statement about the votes.	True
Thunberg and her father who has traveled North America throughout his daughters activist tour could have flown aboard the same flight and burned just as much CO2.	From the Hill Greta Thunbergs plan for carbon free travel was contradicted when her sailboat captain flew across the Atlantic Ocean to pick her up.	No wonder celebs opt to be complete and utter hypocrites instead of actually trying to get carbon neutral.	I mean you really think the entire world is going to come to a screeching halt for carbon emissions when you cant even organize a publicity stunt with your own standards?	And we all kinda see what is happening here if they cant do it now then why would we believe that they would be carbon free after they force all of us to live in backwards slums?	False
The language also points to broader reform efforts that occurred after the Gulf spill including thedivision of the Minerals Management Service the scandal plagued agency faced with the conflicting tasks of issuing leases and policing offshore drilling operations into three new agencies.	Like the rollback of the Production Safety Systems Rule this effort is all about helping industry.	Donald Boesch a professor of marine science at the University of Maryland who served on the bipartisan commission that investigated the causes of the Deepwater Horizon blowout said easing the safety rules is both premature and ill considered.	The Interior Department led by Secretary Ryan Zinke noted in the lengthy proposal that while offshore oil and gas production will never be totally risk free the agency has made and is continuing to make substantial reforms to improve the safety and reduce the possible adverse environmental impacts of those activities.	He also expressed concern about merging the two agencies but said the administration has in effect already done that by putting the safety bureau in the hands of Angelle a big proponent of offshore fossil fuel development.	True
It's no use pointing the finger at what's wrong without bringing alternatives to people he said.	Mr Bolsonaro said the French leader should apologise for insulting him personally by calling him a liar.	Firstly he called me a liar.	He wrote Do not humiliate the guy ha ha.	Greenpeace France described the G7's response to the crisis as inadequate given the urgency and magnitude of this environmental disaster.	False
David Keith a solar geoengineering GE expert at Harvard University has said there is a real danger that his work could be exploited by those who oppose action on emissions at the same time as he defended himself and colleagues from the claims GE strengthens the argument for abandoning the targets set by the Paris climate agreement.	They also ignore the question as to why theres not enough political will to have done more to tackle climate change until now and they in turn serve to justify the inaction she added.	Keith believes the experiment may help to measure the feasibility and risks involved in GE an umbrella term for a range of techniques to deliberately adjust the climate in an effort to mitigate global warming.	This weeks conference drew attention to the huge risks involved.	But scientists such as Keith and Mark Lawrence scientific director of the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies IASS in Potsdam argue that with the Paris agreement goals to limit temperature rise to two degrees or less almost impossible to achieve the world has little choice than to thoroughly explore technical intervention and the potential it has to avoid global disaster.	False
And current emissions mitigation policies especially related to the advocacy for renewables are often costly ineffective and perhaps even harmful to the environment.	In other words nobody is denying that climate changes nobody is denying that the planet has warmed by 0.8 degrees C in the last 150 yearswhile only a handfuldeny that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases has the power to influence temperatures.	Detecting a clear anthropogenic forcing signal amidst the noise of unforced natural variability may therefore be difficult.	Greenhouse Effect Not the Main Driver of Climate Together with these 400 new papers that makes 900 science papers in the last two years casting doubt on global warming.	What they are saying in their different ways is that global warming as in the big scare story that the planet is heating up at a catastrophic unprecedented rate because of man made CO2 emissions is bunk or that the methods being used to combat the problem are bunk.	False
The lawsuit announced by Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Kilmartin was the first by a state seeking to hold oil companies responsible for costs associated with climate change and followed similar cases by several local governments nationally.	The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages as well as orders requiring the companies to pay abatement costs and to disgorge profits.	Kilmartin is seeking to force the companies to pay for damages associated with climate change citing the costs taxpayers were incurring to repair roads and bridges and rebuild coastal structures.	The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products.	The lawsuit filed in Providence County Superior Court named as defendants Exxon BP Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Chevron Corp among other companies.	True
We want to be there we want to be providing solutions for the world.	We know where were going.	Through crestfallen Trudeau reiterated to the president Canadas continued commitment to working internationally to address climate change.	This is about an ambitious and unshakable desire to leave a cleaner healthier and more sustainable planet for our kids and for generations to come.	Despite the lofty objectives when Trudeau signed the Paris accord he was widely criticized in Canada by environmentalists for selling out to an agreement that they said was far too lenient on greenhouse gas producers.	True
The E.P.A.	In this case the proposed methodology would assume there is little or no health benefit to making the air any cleaner than what the law requires.	WASHINGTON The Environmental Protection Agency plans to change the way it calculates the health risks of air pollution a shift that would make it easier to roll back a key climate change rule because it would result in far fewer predicted deaths from pollution according to five people with knowledge of the agencys plans.	The proposed shift is the latest example of the Trump administration downgrading the estimates of environmental harm from pollution in regulations.	had originally forecast that eliminating the Obama era rule the Clean Power Plan and replacing it with a new measure would have resulted in an additional 1400 premature deaths per year.	False
Thats the environmentalinjustice and racism that were dealing with and my plan would equip Americans with the tools tofight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what isright now a tremendous injustice he said.	We know that this climate crisis is going to affect all Americans and all folks around the world but we also know that its going to hit some people particularly hard people that are the first people to get affected he said.	He said his climate plan calls for new civil rights legislation to address environmental injustice including making sure people could file lawsuits against polluters.	Theyre the ones who can least afford to deal with the climate crisis he said during the CNN town hall.	We need to invest in these communities and their ability to withstand storms and other natural disasters and their ability to have something as simple as clean water or breathe clean air he said.	True
We claim to be the party that cares about the future that our children will inherit and we need climate policy that reflects that said Kiera OBrien 21 a senior at Harvard University who co founded the group.	The key here is the dividend back to the people former Sen. Trent Lott R MS who supports the young group told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.	We are offering up what we see as the common sense solution and the way forward for the party OBrien said in the Reuters article.	The generation that has grown up with the constant drumbeat of manmade climate change is now shaping public policy including some young conservatives who have launched a nationwide campaign in support of a carbon tax.	Our plan would provide incentives for companies and individuals to lower emissions in ways they think are best.	False
His concerns about potential waves of lawsuits are not unfounded.	Some analyst groups worry activist shareholders use a largely unregulated industry to hoodwink U.S. companies into accepting proposals designed to tackle climate change that carry little long term benefits.RELATEDA Federal Judge Torches Two Lawsuits Trying To Blame Oil Companies For Climate Change So called proxy advisory firms craft disclosure requirements that force companies to show they are taking efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions.	Environmentalists have convinced several American cities to sue Exxon Chevron and other energy companies to force them to pay for supposedly making disasters worse.	The lack of transparency and competition in the proxy advisory firm industry gives a small number of businesses significant influence over how corporations deal with environmental issues.	Judges have already dismissed several lawsuits but the fear of future litigation is not lost on Shell and others.	False
No harm no foul.	The rollbacks an international signal that were not taking carbon capture and sequestration and reducing impacts from coal seriously said Jay Duffy an associate attorney at the Clean Air Task Force.	Groups can sue once the proposal is finalized as a rule.	Even as nations are gathering in Poland this week to discuss how to implement the Paris climate agreement the US delegation plans to host a panel touting the virtues of fossil fuels the biggest sources of greenhouse gas emissions that drive climate change.	This would have likely required new coal plants to install carbon capture technologies to limit some of their emissions.	False
But instead of blasting the reports authors there are more than 300 for basing their findings on the most extreme scenarios a false claim that he and the White House pushed last week Zinke on Tuesday blamed the media among other targets.	And in order to understand it quite frankly we have to work with you he said.	We want to embrace better stewardship.	We want to embrace reliability.	Ive been criticized for saying we want to work with you.	False
Unfortunately there is a loophole to that status he adds.	If these landowners decide they want to clear their land they can.	Mr Castillo says money is key The first step to protecting the palms will be to allocate the proper amount to the environmental sector.	But according to Mr Bernal the palms in the Cocora Valley are at risk.	Mr Bernal and his fellow scientists have for years been urging the government to buy up the land a move they estimate would cost 10m 7.7m but so far no action has been taken.	False
This story was originally published byGristand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	A lot of the answers are coming from the communities he said.	We do better when we have a project he said of his proposal at the Seattle event.	As well as the fact that we as a country need a project and climate change is as good a one as well ever have.	The presidential candidate was running more than 45 minutes late and was just beginning to lose his audienceIm starting not to love Pete so much someone remarkedwhen he took the stage.	True
He is hurting them.	Kerry cited in the interview the millions of renewable energy jobs that have been created to help curb carbon dioxide emissions as an example of how the Paris Agreement and its associated efforts would have a positive impact on the economy but the truth is that the only reason the wind and solar energy industries have been able to survive is because they are heavily subsidized by taxpayers.	Kerry claimed Trump is not helping the forgotten American.	As H. Sterling Burnett a research fellow in climate and energy issues for The Heartland Institute where I also work as executive editor and a research fellow noted in a recent article on Trumps decision Numerous studies including a NERA Economic Consulting report cited in Trumps announcement showed meeting the carbon dioxide targets imposed on the United States under the Paris agreement would force the premature closing of many of the nations least expensive power plants.	You have this disconnect.	True
The Chronicle rubbished the threat quoting a media law expert who stated that the companys email screw up was its own fault and not the newspapers.	According to a 16 count indictment Crystal Geyser discharged the toxic waste into a pond that staff dubbed the arsenic pond and then worked with two waste disposal firms to illegally transport the arsenic to a plant without a license to treat it.	With pro corporate protesters likely to raise some eyebrows he outlined a more radical approach sue locals in the area for past damages to the local water system to bring them to the table.	Option one involved hiring a PR firm to manufacture fake grassroots support for the facility and change the conversation.	A lawyer representing Crystal Geyser called the newspaper and threatened legal action for running the story.	True
Said Tyler Ray director of policy and advocacy for theAmerican Hiking Society Permitting e bike use on trails that have been thoughtfully and specifically designated as non motorized raises questions of safety and trail sustainability that must be considered.	But this announcement disregards well established policies for how visitors can enjoyably and safely experience the backcountry in national parks said Kristen Brengel senior vice president at the National Parks Conservation Association.	The change has drawn criticism by park advocates and some trail enthusiasts who say the administration did not do enough to seek public input on a policy that could damagethe park experience for many.	Park Service officials notethe policy is modeled after a number of states that already allow expanded use of electric bikes.	The motor may not be used to propel an e bike without the rider also pedaling except in locations open to public motor vehicle traffic under the policy.	False
So that was the motivation for originally setting up the project.	Before 2010 Antarctica was contributing a relatively small proportion of the melting that is causing global sea levels to rise says study co leader Andrew Shepherd of the University of Leeds.	Some of the estimates covered different proportions of the ice sheets some of them covered different time periods and all of them used different methods and so it became difficult for people who are not specialists to try to pick them apart says Shepherd.	That could be a big deal he says for anybody who lives works and governs a coastal region.	We believe that we've captured all of the different satellite records that exist on the planet he says.	True
Its time that we own our mistakes and get real about our shortcomings.	Or we could let implicit bias and systemic racism undercut any chance we have at a sustainable future.	When they dont have a seat at the table how can the movement be ready to systematically tackle issues that affect them uniquely?	The time has come for radical thinking for inclusive problem solving for crowd sourced innovation.	Its urgent that we bring more voices into the conversation.	True
Civic leaders mayors governors CEOs investors and the majority of the business community will take up this challenge Gore said.	But make no mistake if President Trump wont lead the American people will.	Gore who has made two documentaries advocating climate change action said in a statement Removing the United States from the Paris Agreement is a reckless and indefensible action.	Former Vice President Al Gore blasted the decision of President Donald Trump to remove the U.S. from the Paris Climate Agreement on Thursday calling it reckless and indefensible.	Participating in the deal the president argued puts us at a permanent disadvantage.	False
He reportedly blamed out of touch elites for the Golden States water issues and called Newsom the poster boy for these problems.	According to the poll which has a 3.4 margin of error 67 of Democrats 54 of independents and 33 of Republicans believe that Democrat Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom and Republican businessman John Coxs views on environmental issues will impact how they vote.	so the incentives are not great.	In an interview with the Flash Report this week Cox said water housing affordability and the gas tax are the three main issues he wants to tackle.	Most also say that water is the most important issue to them in that category.	False
She submitted the United Nations IPCC Special Report on Global Warming as her written testimony writing I am submitting this report as my testimony because I dont want you to listen to me I want you to listen to the scientists.	he added Our planet is in crisisbut we arent powerless to combat it Sen. Cory Booker D NJ declared.	To the millions of young people and allies worldwide who are striking today to demand climate justice I stand with you.	The youth led and the solidarity strikes from groups like show that our country is ready to fight for the big structural change well need to tackle the climate crisis Sen. Elizabeth Warren D MA tweeted Young people have already demonstrated they can take on powerful fossil fuel companies and force politicians to answer their call to action Sen. Bernie Sanders I VT wrote.	There is nothing more powerful than our nations youth marching together demanding action be taken to protect our planet and their future Sen. Kamala Harris D CA wrote.	True
Economic costs associated with such disasters are mounting.	We face a direct existential threat.	I am appealing for leadership from politicians from businesses and scientists and from the public everywhere U.N. Secretary General Antnio Guterres said when he announced the summit.	China and the U.S. are the top greenhouse gas emitters in the world and their cooperation was the crucial foundation for the Paris Agreement.	Currently global emissions are on track to cause potentially catastrophic climate change in the coming decades.	True
As we have said many times the President's team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the President's plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986.	A carbon tax would hit emissions of greenhouse gases related to the burning of fossil fuels.	Republicans have turned their attention to an overhaul of the U.S. tax system a key campaign goal after their first attempt to replace the Affordable Care Act failed.	A value added tax which is widely used around the world is consumption based.	The carbon tax would appear to clash with the priorities Trump has sought so far in his administration.	True
In a word there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earths goods not only of present generations but also of those yet to come he said.	We are faced not with two separate crises one environmental and the other social but rather with one complex crisis which is both social and environmental he said.	The pope went on to enumerate his vision of the problem while also recognizing that many poor people derive their livelihood from activities that threaten the environment.	He also denounced a failure to recycle paper and other resources while calling climate change a global problem with grave implications and one of the principal challenges facing humanity in our day.	The pontiff tied together social and ecological problems insisting that the two are intimately intertwined.	True
Some of the more dire predictions came from Paul Ehrlich a biologist who famously urged population control to mitigate the impacts of humans on the environment.	The article detailed aU.N.	That claim came from an international team of specialists cited by The New York Times in 1978.	ANDY PUZDER HERE'S WHY DEMS WANT TO GENERATE CLIMATE PANIC AS THEY IGNORE WAYS TO REDUCE CARBON EMISSIONS Those predictions were made around the time former President Richard Nixon created the Environmental Protection Agency.	The dire predictions often repeated inthe media warned of a variety of impending disasters famine drought an ice age and even disappearing nations if the world failed to act on climate change.	True
The mayor said he had challenged the citys Department of Water and Power to come up with an answer Instead of saying all the reasons why not get to a reason as to why.	It is not clear how the state will achieve that goal.	Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor at Large at Breitbart News.	The plan also aims to provide every American with a guaranteed job with a family sustaining wage adequate family and medical leave paid vacations and retirement security to all people.	He made the decision despite the fact that top staffers have argued in recent months that the gas plants are critical to keeping the lights on in the city theTimes noted.	True
Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oils exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012 which led to a series of problems mistakes and violations of environmental laws.	Its drilling contractor pleaded guilty to eight felony offenses relating to environmental pollution and safety and agreed to pay 12.2 million in fines.	The area is remote and foreboding the complaint said.	The US Coast Guard cited the Noble Discoverer for numerous deficiencies after the drilling season and the EPA determined Shell had violated the Clean Air Act during its drilling efforts and fined the company 1.1 million.	The Center for Biological Diversity Greenpeace and REDOIL a coalition of Alaska native groups sued the Trump administration on May 3 citing the risk of offshore oil and gas exploration development to local communities and wildlife.	True
The harm thats done in taking legislative authority away from the committees is far too great she said.	Maintaining legislative power for existing committees with members who might have taken contributions from oil gas and coal donors could pose some risk but would be worth it said Rep.Pramila Jayapal D Wash. the other Progressive Caucus co chair.	Young people and Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma.	I wouldnt even call it compromises.	But proponents tweaked language in the proposal this week to mandate the select committee to lay out a vision for a Green New Deal while maintaining existing committees authority over the lawmaking process.	True
We dont have a social mission other than transparency and fact checking.	Were not going to win the internet by going out and saying everybody is doing it wrong its just a pricing story.	He admitted in a media environment that rewards sensationalism and factual manipulation the approach may seem a bit bland.	Its the mother of all risk Sandberg added.	Even Exxon Mobil Corp. the oil behemoth that spent decades bankrolling a Big Tobacco style campaign to discredit global warming has named a climate scientist to its board.	True
A tragedy is unfolding in Maharashtra and a money spinning racket for Tanker owners.	The public no tests no international treaties that will stop it.	More studies are needed.	Or whichever country leads the way.	The problem is when people think a resource is free and so plentiful that it can never run out that you get situations where it does run out.	False
In 2012 a heat kink caused a 32 car long freight train to derail and fly off an overpass a similar derailment happened in 2017.	In cities that means millions of units including those on cars and buses and trains constantly pushing out heat into the atmosphere.	But it goes further than just an ever hotter summer season the emissions from air conditioners and their refrigerants is contributing to climate change.	Asphalt warps and melts.	Here's what that sort of heat can do.	False
The 18 year old activist made a name for herself beyond the Keystone State last month when she questioned Republican gubernatorial nominee Scott Wagner at a town hall on what she said was his lack of action on climate change and donations he received from the fossil fuel industry.	Wagner also asked the Glenside crowd Are we here to elect a governor or are we here to elect a scientist?	He has shown support for the young and naive voters Strauss told the paper adding that while Wolf has supported us verbally the governor hasnt committed to action on things we care about like climate change.	Rose Strauss apparently isnt showing favoritism in the race for Pennsylvania governor at least when it comes to asking candidates about climate change.	Well in a way she has Wagner to thank for that as he responded by calling Strauss a little young and naive on video which subsequently went viral.	True
has been asked to join her storyteller parents in telling a story of her own for a crowd.	This issue tends to play incredibly well in the mainstream media as they use climate change as the universal bad guy so I'm sure there were plenty of parents who actually thought this episode was a good idea.	Can't kids just learn without an anti scientific social agenda?	However she's more into data than storytelling so the kids take a trip to a glacier allowing her to tell the story of you guessed it climate change which is met with a standing ovation by the audience.	With the class camping in the woods Miss Frizzle and the other students help him come up with clean energy alternatives wind water etc so they won't be eaten.	True
Perhaps not surprisingly his staff seems to share these views.	This climate denier for example	Scientists have since reached an overwhelming consensus The planet is getting warmer and humans are to blame.	But this hasn't stopped climate deniers from citing the old stories as evidence that contemporary news reports about climate change shouldn't be believed.	The other from 2007 discussed how to survive global warming.	True
Pera Markovic a lawyer with Cekor an environmental group is critical of the company's failure to limit pollution in the local area.	You cannot be a world leader in curbing air pollution and at the same time the world's biggest financier of overseas coal power plants the group's energy coordinator Ioana Ciuta told the BBC.	Christine Shearer is an analyst with the group CoalSwarm which tracks coal developments and she is scathing about the implications.	Contracts and financing for these facilities are often not fully transparent but campaign groups including Bankwatch have tried to keep track.	As levels of greenhouse gases reach a new record concerns are growing about the role of China in global warming.	False
LaFleur for example called on FERC to factor in estimates like the controversial social cost of carbon for a cost benefit analysis.	These are decisions that impact the presidents ability to make foreign policy decisions Brouillette told TheDCNF.	Republican FERC commissioners Neil Chatterjee the chairman and Bernard McNamee worked with Democrat Cheryl LaFleur to hash out an agreement to get her support.	Brouillette also stressed the geopolitical implications of LNG exports and the role energy could play in President Donald Trumps foreign policy.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True
Thats not how it works.	The American Meteorological Society released a statement that read in part It is clear from extensive scientific evidence that the dominant cause of the rapid change in climate of the past half century is human induced increases in the amount of atmospheric greenhouse gases including carbon dioxide CO chlorofluorocarbons methane and nitrous oxide.	Bush in the early 90s.	Mr. Trump believes that because he doesnt get close enough to the dossiers to fully understand them.	It seems our attempt failed.	True
Are we part of the reason?	I'll let people debate on who's the bigger problem here.	That's just common sense.	Energy Secretary Rick Perry veering from the Trump administration message on climate change told CNBC on Wednesday he believes that human activity does play a role.	I'm on the record as saying the climate is changing.	True
But her parents didnt.	We are being robbed and pillaged by industry Landrum said her voice rising to a preachers righteous crescendo.	A few job promises and they get to pollute as much as they want.	Amid the gleaming towers of automotive giants whose vehicles now spew the majority of Americas climate changing gases the demonstrators called for a future in which the health of the planet and its people guides industrial planning andin which the Motor City sheds its association with combustion engines.	Then you know what we get?	True
When you think about what that rule meant it was about picking winners and losers.	And Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club said Trump and Pruitt are launching one of the most egregious attacks on public health and climate safety.	Regulatory power should not be used by any regulatory body to pick winners and losers he said at the event.	Under the interpretation proposed in this notice the CPP exceeds the EPA's statutory authority and would be repealed the proposal reads.	The past administration was using every bit of power and authority to use the EPA to pick winners and losers and how we generate electricity in this country.	True
This is our issue Beverly said.	By fighting for the actual justice and livelihood of working people you are going to create the political energy to actually address climate change she said.	Were hit first and hit worst.	Theres no question that this is a topic area that black politicians including the CBC Congressional Black Caucus have not focused on as much Thomas A. LaVeist dean of Tulane Universitys School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine said in an interview.	This is about social disruption Shepard said.	False
Robert Johnson February 21 2019 When you continue to deny climate science you cant make the claim that you are a driver of science policy.	That is hypocrisy.	No more gaslighting.	President Donald Trumps pick to head the committee William Happer once compared the demonization of CO2 to how Jews were characterized in Nazi Germany.	Dawn Amos meh my dogs are the boss of me February 21 2019 You can't believe science in a selective manner and claim to be pro science.	True
For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Evidence since enactment of the Energy Independence and Security Act suggests an increase in acreage planted with soybeans and corn with strong indications from observed changes in land use that some of this increase is a consequence of increased biofuel production read a portion of the 159 page report.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The law was passed with the intention of aiding in climate change efforts.	Essentially the study found that biofuel mandates are boosting production of corn and soybeans.	True
They reflect profound failure to honour collective global commitment to protect the most vulnerable.	At the Madrid summit ambassador Lois Young from the Alliance of Small Island States AOSIS which represents low lying coastal countries and small island nations launched a rebuke to the world's big polluters.	We are disappointed by inadequate action by developed countries and outraged by the dithering and retreat of one of the most culpable polluters from the Paris Agreement she said.	America remains the number one historic contributor to the climate emergency and even Democratic politicians have never committed to taking responsibility for our fair share.	In the midst of a climate emergency retreat and inaction are tantamount to sanctioning ecocide.	False
And the big thing that the secretary hears over and over again is that people just don't have access to land.	Fosberg's criticism is similar to what environmental groups said following the secretarial order last week.	Hunters anglers and target shooters are the best conservationists who contribute so much through the Pittman Robertson and Dingell Johnson Acts said Richard Childress NRA vice president.	And he's skeptical of just how far the secretarial order will go.	Washington CNN Toy gun grasped firmly in his hand and a grin plastered wide across his face while he played Big Buck Hunter Pro Ryan Zinke could have been a kid at an arcade.	False
I could have put my hat in the ring for the administrator he said in June.	Wheeler with his knowledge of the rule making process will help manage such reversals while avoiding headlines over 1500 fountain pens Trump Hotel mattresses or Chick fil A franchises.	Now that he is in the role he said he didnt covet he will be tasked with completing the job of dismantling environmental and climate regulations.	For opponents of the president the prospect is a daunting one.	There is no reason to believe that Wheeler will fix the problems left behind and put childrens health ahead of his industry friends.	True
My father died of black lung and I am in this struggle with others whose fathers and husbands are dying of black lung right now said Teri Blanton of Kentuckians for the Commonwealth which represents Appalachian coal workers in North America.	Nonetheless many observers at the official US panel were ashamed at the position of their federal government.	Although these industries are the main source of the carbon emissions that are causing global warming the speakers boasted the US would expand production for the sake of global energy security and planned a new fleet of coal plants with technology it hoped to export to other countries.	None of the panelists would be drawn on the study but Griffith spoke out against alarmism that he claimed displaced pragmatic solutions to address environmental concerns with prescriptive regulations that put jobs at risk and raised costs for consumers.	I was completely embarrassed to be an American said Leo McNeil Woodberry of the Climate Action Network.	True
The report comes at the same time the president has sent out misleading tweets aboutthe causes and solutions of Californias wildfires and as Donald Trumps Interior head Ryan Zinke has blamed fires on environmentalists denied climate change science and called for more logging.	The longer Ryan Zinke continues to ignore these facts the greater the risks to homes and families.	In itthe service writes Of particular concern are longer fire seasons and the rising size and severity of wildfires along with the growing risk to lives homes natural resources and other values.	Mother Jonesasked an expert to decipher this nonsense and you can read his analysis here.	Additionally in his op ed the Secretary directly addressed longer hotter drier seasons in the opening paragraphs.Its true that Zinke changed his tuneafter his earlier comments Zinke told reportersThursday that climate change has played a role in the fires and that global temperatures are rising.	False
This is something Ive taken on in California I have a history of working on this issue she added.	But most importantly methane from natural gas contributes to climate change and is setting us on a path to disaster he added.	But for me I think the way we get there is we just say sorry guys but by 2035 youre done she said during CNNs town hall.	Warren released her comprehensive climate change proposal inspired by Gov.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	True
An analysis done by his own Environmental Protection Agency EPA concludes that the rollback of Obama era pollution controls will lead to many more people dying and suffering health problems that they otherwise would not have.	Our politicians are beholden to coal.	Meanwhile our people are being poisoned she said.	Individual states will decide how much to regulate coal power plants in their own states.	Our state is beholden to coal.	False
We've got to do something and a lawsuit might be the only way to do it.	The government doesn't get to pick winners and losers in this thing Mace said.	These lawsuits are one tool in our bag that we're going to use.	South Carolina Gov.	The governor and Attorney General Alan Wilson have resolved to continue working together to determine the best path forward Symmes said.	False
Either there was a plan in place to deal with an unprecedented storm at Tyndall and it wasnt followed or there wasnt one and were already seeing the consequences.	However Lengyel waffled on humanitys role in shaping the climate behind these storms.	Whatever the reason we have to be ready to deal with them.	However as Hurricane Michael showed theres a vast gulf between acknowledging climate change and adequately preparing for it.	The flight line is devastated.	False
And Paul Bledsoe a strategic adviser at the Progressive Policy Institute said progressives were overcompensating.	My personal view is that undermines the credibility of the effort.	Speaking at an eventcommemoratingMartin Luther King Day that monthOcasio Cortez asserted thatclimate change constituted our World War II and added Millennials and people you know Gen Z and all these folks that will come after us are looking up and were like The world is gonna end in 12 years if we dont address climate change and your biggest issue is how are we gonna pay for it?'	I understand the value of aspirational goals Bledsoesaid.	On Twitter Monday Ocasio Cortez reposted a claim from one of her advisersRobert Hockett arguing that in this case size matters and that the problems the Green New Deal addresses require solutions where bigger is better imperative and paraodixcally more affordable.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	And Wheeler's approach ignoring science in favor of industry and pollution is a perfect reflection of Trump's shameful approach to climate issues.	But EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler a former coal lobbyist and a pro pollution apologist doesn't care.	Just because our scientists publish something in a journal doesnt mean that thats agency policy or all the other scientists at the agency agree with that particular study Wheeler told Reuters.	Wheeler was appointed to head the EPA after Trumps first scandal plagued EPA chief Scott Pruitt was ousted.	False
But head activism has led to criticism from from world leaders and others who allege she is being manipulated.	But adults must do everything not to bring teenagers and children into some extreme situations.	She already has an honour to her name after winning Amnesty International's highest Ambassadors of Conscience human rights award last month.	The 16 year old Swede started the Fridays for Future movement to demand action be taken to combat global warming and is currently taking a year off school to focus on campaigning.	Putin said young people who paid attention to environmental issues should be supported.	False
Lawyers at the Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Transportation on Friday sent a letter to the chairman of the California Air Resources Board following California's July framework agreement with Ford Volkswagen Honda and BMW to abide by certain new greenhouse gas emissions standards.	Given the importance Congress placed on the authority of DOT and EPA for motor vehicle fuel economy and nationwide vehicle emissions standards under federal law we urge you to act immediately to disassociate CARB from the commitments made by the four automakers the letter added.	That's a false choice and it's one that you've talked about Mr. President.	Congress has squarely vested the authority to set fuel economy standards for new motor vehicles and nationwide standards for GHG vehicle emissions with the federal government not with California or any other state.	The purpose of this letter is to put California on notice that this framework agreement appears to be inconsistent with federal law the letter said.	True
Administrator Pruitt was working for environmental justice by meeting with the real residents affected by lead contamination and by committing to get results.	That includes financial help to make sure that happens.	We want that soil to be disposed of properly so as not to cause further contamination we want continued testing of the soil and ground water in this area and a commitment to ensure the residents exposed to the lead get the physical and mental health care they need for the rest of their life.	Those demands include Oversight of East Chicago's ongoing attempts to improve its corrosion control treatment expanded blood lead level testing of children under age 7 bottled water and home water filtration systems to residents throughout the city and testing the city's drinking water to determine the extent of the contamination.	We need them to commit to adjusting cleanup plan for the site.	False
Sometimes it appears to be a result of ineptitude other times it appears to be tactical.	The premise was that the industrial economies were most responsible for the greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and that developing countries needed to continue using fossil fuels for the immediate future to grow their economies.	It can be summed up in one word confusion.	They seem not to have read it.	Nor I assume is it shared by the hundreds of businesses and investors who urged Trump to remain in the pact.	False
A defense against believing humans are responsible for climate change is that scientific studies are not 100 certain a stance frequently used by members of the Trump administration that muddles the scientific consensus that man made emissions are driving global warming.	Instead the USGS release leaves the cause unmentioned .	It is hypocritical said Andrew Rosenberg director for the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists.	Asked Wednesday if Trump thinks human activity is contributing to climate change White House press secretary Sean Spicer responded Honestly I haven't asked him that.	So no I would not agree that it's a primary contributor to the global warming that we see.	True
There is near universal agreement that putting a price on carbon dioxide likely through a tax is key to scaling back emissions in much the same way levies on tobacco and alcohol are meant to offset those products societal costs.	Asked where the line is between what critics said was the previous administrations federal overreach and attempting to stave off the worst of what the IPCC predicted Flint went quiet for a while.	Nor did the oil giant Exxon Mobil Corp. which spent decades financing a network of climate change misinformation before announcing its support for a carbon tax or the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative a corporate consortium that advocates for what it calls practical solutions to climate change.	But for some conservative climate hawks the reality of the IPCC report hit home.	The only force that I know of on the planet that can deliver innovation as quickly as we need it is the free enterprise system said former Rep. Bob Inglis R S.C. now the executive director of RepublicEn a group urging Republicans to support a carbon tax.	True
In point of fact Mr. Schneiders issue isnt just with the president it is with the nation that elected him.	How a person can have such unshakable certainty in the outcome of complex future events is truly remarkable.	One hardly knows where to begin in taking apart an argument that is literally filled with errors fallacies inconsistencies and non sequiturs.	The essay by Nathan Schneider appearing in the May 31 issue of America titled Trumps war on the environment is a war on the young and the unborn makes the incredible case that withdrawing from the Paris agreement constitutes a war on future generations tantamount to genocide.	Without the Paris accord he claims mankind is a species embracing its own suicidal fragmentation.	True
The Associated Press contributed to this report.	My action today will cut through the destructive permitting and denials Trump said during the signing of the executive orders at the International Union of Operating Engineers International Training and Education Center a union run facility in Crosby Texas.	When states say 'no' to the development of natural gas pipelines they force utilities to curb safe and affordable service and refuse access to new customers including new businesses said Karen Harbert president and CEO at the American Gas Association.	Trump's move comes less than a week after nearly a dozen business groups told EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler that the environmental review and permitting process for energy infrastructure projects has become a target for environmental activists and states that oppose the production and use of fossil fuels.	The White House has sought to stave off any discord by arguing that the order is not meant to take power away from the states but to ensure that state actions follow the intent of the Clean Water Act.	False
Trump a proud climate change skeptic attributes the fires to lousy management.	US President Donald Trump is taking California to task for the management of its forests and dams blaming red tape for the devastating forest fires and drought plaguing the bluest of blue states and threatening to withhold aid.	It's hard not to think there's an element of spite in this rhetoric as wealthy and influential Californians led talk of secession following Trump's 2016 election victory.	Trump threatened to withhold future federal aid if Californiadoes not get on the ball implying that the state's environmental woes were its own fault.	Trump wants to redistribute that water to Californians he says.	False
The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate.	But then the childrens lawsuit is an unusual case.	Ann Carlson a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests theres something there that piques the courts interest.	The local governments are citing nuisance statutes and seeking money from oil companies to pay for damages caused by climate change whereas the childrens case is trying to force the government to enact policies to curb greenhouse gas emissions.	Asked for comment the Department of Justice pointed to comments made by Jeffrey Wood a political appointee at the DOJ handling environmental cases who spoke about the Juliana case at a law conference last week.	False
WildEarth Guardians Physicians for Social Responsibility and the Western Environmental Law Center sued the BLM in 2016 for failing to calculate and limit the amount of greenhouse gas emissions from future oil and gas projects.	He added that the agency must consider the cumulative impact of GHG greenhouse gas emissions generated by past present and future BLM leases across the country.	The decision stems from an environmental lawsuit.	The Western Energy Alliance one of the defendants in the case also did not respond to a request.	Nichols predicts there will be implications for public lands across the west.	False
Thanks for this hearing.	Christina DeConcini director of government affairs for the environmental group World Resources Institute said the US needs a fact based approach for how to address this clear and present danger to America's infrastructure homes and businesses.	Donald J. Trump November 6 2012 The Senate Commerce Science and Transportation Committee hearing was conducted by Nelson the panel's ranking member but it was authorized by Republican Sen. John Thune of South Dakota the committee's chairman who has acknowledged human activity is responsible for climate change.	Today we sit at ground zero of the impacts of climate change in the US Florida Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson said.	The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non competitive.	False
The judge said the Corps also didnt adequately study how the pipeline might disproportionately affect the tribal community a concept known as environmental justice.	Todays decision is a disappointing continuation of a historic pattern Other people get all the profits and the tribes get all the risk and harm said Jan Hasselman an Earthjustice attorney representing the tribe in an ongoing federal lawsuit through which Standing Rock and three other tribes still hope to shut down the pipeline.	The Corps must simply connect the dots he said.	It includes increased public reporting of pipeline issues such as repairs and implementation of a spill response plan including equipment staging at Lake Oahe.	Boasberg found that it is likely the Army Corps of Engineers will be able to justify previous decisions made while permitting the pipeline.	False
who staked out a climate policy based on a bill to force public companies to disclose financial risk from warming or regulations to curb emissions.	And a new majority of Democratic stateattorneys general are facing growing pressure to file lawsuits over climate damages.	What we are seeing is a growing consciousness Sanders said.	Activists freshly galvanized by the hellscape images of Californias deadliest wildfire seem primed for action and the partys progressive wing has signaled a new willingness to force a more serious debate over an issue thats remained stagnant in the House for much of the past decade.	If you think of Bernie youd think hed be talking about inequality or civil rights.	False
They knew or should have known that this harmful compound would reach groundwater pollute drinking supplies render drinking water unusuable and unsafe and threaten the public health and welfare stated the complaint which claims an underground storage tank likely held the chemical.	Sacramento Suburban seeks to recover the substantial costs necessary to protect the public and restore its damaged drinking water supply the water districts lawsuit filed in federal court in Sacramento says as part of its claim seeking 1.1 billion in damages.	Plaintiffs claim heavy metals used by aircraft maintenance crews at the old McClellan Air Force Base have contaminated over 300 sites.	In addition to the Air Force the water district lawsuits name 10 firms they say were associated with providing chemicals to the base Elementis Chromium Inc. Occidental Chemical Corp. Honeywell Inc. BASF Corp. PPG Inc. E.I.	Contaminated with plating wastes solvents acids waste oils paint thinners strippers and sludges and other hazardous compounds the lawsuits stated.	False
I have decided that it is appropriate and in the public interest to reconsider the rule Pruitt wrote in a letter sent Wednesday to counsel for a utility group and officials at the U.S. Small Business Administration SBA.	Aside from arguing EPA improperly withheld data on how they came up with the rule plaintiffs argued the agency didnt perform proper testing to see if requiring coal plants to install new equipment would meet federal pollution guidelines.	Pruitt was responding to a petition sent by the Utility Water Action Group UWAG urging the Trump administration to rescind its Effluent Limitations Guidelines for coal fired power plants.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	To an unprecedented extent the Agency withheld fundamental information purporting to justify the Rule UWAG argued adding that included pages of the record that demonstrably were not entitled to confidential treatment.	False
Backed into a corner Pruitt conceded that CO2 does contribute to global warming although he followed up this concession by saying The issue is how much we contribute to it from a human activity perspective and what can be done about it from a process perspective.	Unable to give a straight answer Pruitt first admitted that human activity does contribute to the current warming trend.	The Fox News Sunday anchor went on to reference a report from the U.N. that says it is 95 percent likely that human activity has caused the majority of the warming that has taken place since the mid 20th century.	What if in fact the Earth is warming what if it is causing dramatic climate change and that we as humans through carbon emissions are contributing to it?	And the question I have is what if youre wrong?	False
Democratic Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon the amendments author said on Twitter on Thursday Despite dangerous decision unwillingness to act we can will fight back to combat The amendment passed 16 14.	Framework Convention on Climate Change as well as the scientific body the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.	The cable also said diplomats should make clear that the United States wants to help other countries use fossil fuels which have been linked to global warming.	Republican Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lamar Alexander of Tennessee voted in favor as did all committee Democrats except for West Virginias Joe Manchin.	In a diplomatic cable that Reuters obtained last month Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said U.S. diplomats should sidestep questions from foreign governments on how the United States plans re engage in the global Paris climate agreement.	False
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke began advocating similar policy prescriptions earlier in 2018 after President Donald Trump blamed Californias bad environmental laws for creating a wildfire prone environment.RELATED Trump Administration Is Taking Its Fight Against Bad Environmental Laws Straight To California California forests have grown drier and less healthy from overcrowded trees infestations of bark beetles and the effects of climate change the LA Timeswrites.	California Democratic Gov.	Jerry Brown partnered with state lawmakers to introduce changes to the states policies.	Combined with drought insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality the op ed continues.	Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke was soon at the front of the administrations push for California to begin adopting more active land management policies.	False
Whether those claims should be handled in court presents substantial grounds for difference of opinion the court said then.	Lawyers for Our Children's Trust have argued that government policies have deprived the children of their constitutional rights to life liberty and propertyto dignity to personal security to a stable climate system capable of sustaining human lives and liberties.	Legal whiz kid or partisan hack?	Their alleged injuries stem from the cumulative effects of CO2emissions from every source in the world over decades.	Courts have an obligation not to overstep the bounds of their jurisdiction but they have an equally important duty to fulfill their role as a check on any unconstitutional actions of the other branches of government she said last monthin denying the government's effort to stall or dismiss the trial.	False
He noted that the poor pay the highest price for climate change often being forced to migrate due to water insecurity severe weather and an accompanying collapse in agriculture.	The transition to accessible and clean energy is a duty that we owe toward millions of our brothers and sisters around the world poor countries and generations yet to come the pope said.	He urged participants to use their demonstrated aptitude for innovation to address two of the great needs in todays world the care of the poor and the environment.	Frances also recalled his own appeal in the Laudato Si encyclical for an energy policy aimed at averting disastrous climate changes that could compromise the well being and future of the human family and our common home.	While Francis lauded the oil executives for embedding an assessment of climate change risks into their planning strategies he also put them on notice for their continued search for fossil fuel reserves 2 years after the Paris climate accord clearly urged keeping most fossil fuels underground.	False
So what could be behind these cases?	It means that if one pilot whale encounters a problem then it can have an impact on the entire group.	While the exact reasons remain unclear experts say many different factors could play a part.	It's a problem you get with these very social animals that tend to for reasons we have never been clear on end up following either a sick leader onto the beach or end up getting lost as a group Dr Brownlow says.	Experts say the answer lies in their herd like behaviour.	False
For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Methane makes up 10 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for global warming.	Republican lawmakers worried the Obama era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more.	False
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi brushed it aside in an interview with Rolling Stone on Thursday saying it goes beyond what our charge is.	You're just a garden variety hypocrite like the others.	In addition to slashing carbon emissions the deal calls for widespread wealth redistribution to counteract systemic injustices and includes provisions for universal healthcare and taxpayer funded college tuition.	And you have ZERO expertise at any of the things you pretend to know he tweeted on Sunday before calling AOC an immature bully.	In a tweet the Bronx Democrat told skeptics If you dont like the Green New Deal then come up with your own ambitious on scale proposal...until then were in charge.	False
Like this story?	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	At around the same time his campaign cautioned voters not to turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines an ironic coincidence or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event?	Before Bidens eye exploded the audience had been raking him over the coals for a scheduled fundraiser the following night at the home of a natural gas executive.	Viewers called him out for rambling incoherent answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry.	False
ETC has focused its activism on the Paris climate agreement which President Obama signed onto without Senate approval.	The chief avenue the group advocates to cut global warming is to force governments around the world to place an ever growing tax on carbon emissions as a means to force change in energy policy.	The group is made up of energy company executives activists investment bankers Al Gore and others who would financially benefit from the immense influx of funds the Daily Caller reports.	Trumps Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt has urged the president to exit the agreement and at least one climate scientist Dr. Duane Thresher has warned Trump not to cave in to his daughters climate change madness.	The group also calls for direct investment in green energy.	False
As Marshall saw it The private owner is thus responsible for almost every serious forest problem.	When massive problems develop cross jurisdictional lines and are associated with market failures big government responses can seem like the only possible solution.	The socialist sobriquet stokes ideological fires but douses historical understanding.	This story was originally published by High Country Newsand is shared here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	TheGreen New Dealand its proponents aim to tackle the intertwined issues of social and environmental justice in our age of anthropogenic climate change.	False
This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	And so what happens to these forests truly affects all life on Earth.	This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you me and the whole world.	If these ecosystems collapse the climate effects are likely to be irreversible.	We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster not just locally but globally.	False
In June three human rights groups accused BNP Paribas of complicity in the 1994 Rwandan genocide that killed more than 800000 people.	In 2015 the company was ordered to pay 8.9 billion to the U.S. for violating sanctions against Sudan Cuba and Iran.	Last month JPMorgan Chase became the target of a new campaign urging it to end financing for companies that drill tar sands a particularly dirty source of oil that forms the backbone of Canadas industry.	Were a long standing partner to the energy sector and were determined to support the transition to a more sustainable world BNP Paribas CEO Jean Laurent Bonnaf said in a statement.As an international bank our role is to help drive the energy transition and contribute to the decarbonization of the economy.	In July the Federal Reserve fined the firm 246 million for its unsafe and unsound practices in foreign currency trading division failing to crack down on employees who violated rules on sharing information with competitors.	False
While calling Wheeler certainly qualified for this position Collins said some of the policies he has proposed as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	It's a sad day for public health and the EPA but missionaccomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries Ken Cook president of the Environmental Working Group said in a statement following the vote.	Mr. Wheeler has proven his ability to advance pragmatic solutions to pressing environmental challenges Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell R Ky. said on the Senate floor before the vote.	They have longed for one of their own to call the shots at the agency and now they finally have their man in Andrew Wheeler.	While leading President Donald Trump's deregulatory agenda Wheeler also has emphasized the agency's work to clean up Superfund sites and for the first time begin regulating a set ofharmful chemicalsfound in drinking water systems that serve millions of Americans.	False
Vanguard pays him rental fees for having the anaerobic digester on his farm.	His hope is that the concept will spread here.	In fact a recent report from the United Nations from a panel of climate experts estimates that up to 10 percent of all human made greenhouse gas emissions are linked to food waste.	We capture the gas in that bubble.	So here's one solution to the problem Dairy farmers in Massachusetts are using food waste to create electricity.	False
Last month the EPA circulated talking points instructing its staffers to say clear gaps exist in understanding whether human activity contributes to climate change.	The decision was praised by industry officials who had called on Pruitt to revisit the rules but environmental groups said he was caving to special interests in the coal industry.	Put together Pruitt's moves some of which have been challenged in court represent an attempt to fundamentally restructure the EPA's role in Washington and are a sharp rebuke of the environmental legacy of former President Barack Obama.	The weakening of automobile standards which is a win for car manufacturers and a blow to environmentalists also sets up a fight between the Trump administration and the state of California which says it plans to stick with the stricter rules.	Pushing to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord Pruitt pushed the White House to leave the Paris climate deal stood beside the President in the Rose Garden when he announced the decision and after the President spoke offered his own remarks.	False
If a climate debate does happen much of the credit will belong to activist organizations like the US Youth Climate Strike a teen led group that has pressured candidates into endorsing the efforts.	They are Sen. Cory Booker who called for more time to be devoted to the issue after the first debate Montana Gov.	ORourkes campaign did not respond to a request for comment in time for publication to confirm Youth Climate Strikes tweet Booker supports more climate change discussion but the campaign toldMother Jones that the decision is in the hands of the DNC.	Steve Bullock former Colorado Gov.	In April climate activistslaunched a grassroots campaign demanding that one of the debates be dedicated to climate they noted that presidential debate moderators had a long history of giving short shrift to the issue.	False
Ironically though many who demand action do little of it themselves.	Individual actions are mere bollocks useless gestures.	Only the sacrifices made by others will make a difference.	A study by researchers at the University of Michigan and Cornell University found that those who are highly concerned about climate change are least likely to report individual level actions to reduce their environmental impact.	The most effective environmental efforts are often small personal actions in which people have skin in the game.	False
for failing to properly control methane pollution a greenhouse gas.	Mr. Schneidermans big accomplishment in going after Wall Street were the billions of dollars in penalties that he helped secure from big banks that had sold flawed mortgage backed bonds during the run up to the financial crisis.	His legal team was one of the first in the nation to target banks for sponsoring nontransparent trading platforms called dark pools which allowed high speed trading firms to take advantage of investors.	In 2016 Mr. Schneiderman and the Securities and Exchange Commission announced a 154 million settlement with Barclays and Credit Suisse to resolve allegations that the banks had permitted traders to misuse their dark pool platforms.	Three years ago he opened an investigation with the Massachusetts attorney general into whether Exxon Mobil deliberately misled the public and investors about the impact of climate change.	False
Substantively I think you have your thumb wrist forearm and elbow on the scale Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse D RI told Wheeler referring to Wheelers past work as a coal lobbyist.	Unlike Pruitt Wheeler did acknowledge that humans are driving changes in the climate and that it must be addressed.	I consider it to be an issue that has to be addressed globally.	Senate Democrats used the Wednesday confirmation hearing of Andrew Wheeler the acting administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to push him on the agencys negligence on climate change its rollback of regulations designed to protect Americans health and his uncannily close ties to the fossil fuel industry.	Sen. Bernie Sanders I VT asked Wheeler repeatedly.	False
Can you really look them in the eye and say 'No sorry I couldn't do anything because that country over there didn't do anything so if they're not going to do it then I'm not.'	But it's clear younger people are leading this movement and they say most adults especially policy makers are moving far too slowly.	But this time students are asking adults to join them.	That is shameful and that is cowardly Margolin said.	I agree that we need to ensure that we move forward in a sustainable rational manner said Graves.	False
Dr. Matt Amesbury also of the University of Exeter said there were two main findings to take from their new study scale and temperature sensitivity Before now studies have been from single sites but using a transect of sites weve been able to show that this significant response to climate change is pervasive across the whole of the Antarctic Peninsula.	another clear sign that the biology of the planet is changing as a result of warming temperatures said Professor Dan Charman of the University of Exeter who led the research project.	Or so it has been for thousands of years.	A Green Island moss bank with icebergs.Credit Matt Amesbury Antarctica is a cold white continent at the bottom of the world.	The second important point is our finding which suggests that moss growth has been highly sensitive to temperature change since the 1950sunder future warming scenarios this means we are likely to see a greening of the Antarctic Peninsula both in terms of further increases in growth rates and also expansion of mosses and other plant life.	False
We can potentially provide a powerful solution to produce the food closer to the population needing it at the exact and right time it is needed.	This joint experiment marks a significant first step toward achieving our vision to ensure food security for generations to come while preserving our natural resources.	One found that avoiding meat and dairy products was the single biggest way to reduce an individuals environmental impact on the planet.	We are proving that cultivated meat can be produced anytime anywhere in any condition said Didier Toubia co founder and chief executive of Aleph Farms.	The Israeli food technology startup Aleph Farms grew the meat on the International Space Station 248 miles 399 km away from any natural resources.	False
That is more than 21000 in income loss per family a portion of the letter read.	Majority Whip Steve Scalise and West Virginia Rep. David McKinley introduced a House resolution in April that explicitly condemns a tax on carbon dioxide pollution.	The idea of a carbon tax a fee charged onto companies according to the amount of carbon emissions their plants emit into the atmosphere has been recommended as a market friendly method to controlling CO2 pollution.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Most who took part in the summit agreed that afee on carbon emissions is pivotal in reforming the U.S. energy sector according to an Axios report.	False
Wheeler said he believes climate change is a problem but that it had been overblown by former President Barack Obamas administration at the expense of other bigger issues like water quality.	Youre right there could very well be a new generation coming up saying thats the only environmental issue and its not he said.	I think what is effective regulation is one that follows the law and one that will be held up in court he said.	He said while he encouraged EPA scientists to carry out and publish research he stressed the recent paper did not reflect EPA policy.	Asked whether the replacement the Affordable Clean Energy rule which gives states responsibility for regulating emissions is stringent enough Wheeler said it adheres to the parameters of federal law.	False
I think some kind of major flood happened all over the world and it left an indelible imprint on the collective memory of mankind that got preserved in these stories.	In the Epic of Gilgamesh waters so overwhelm the mortals that the gods grow frightened too Gillis wrote In Indias version Lord Vishnu warns a man to take refuge in a boat carrying seeds.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	In the Bible God orders Noah to carry two of every living creature on his ark.	False
The City does not seek to impose liability on Defendants for their direct emissions of greenhouse gases anddoes not seek to restrain Defendants from engaging in their business operations the city wrote in its complaint.	New York Citys climate lawsuits are ultimately designed to target the industrys financial bottom line Susan Amron the chief of the environmental law division of the New York City Law Department said at a Sept. 26 panel discussion during the Climate Week NYC.	Manufacturers and conservative groups worry trial attorneys are behind the spat of climate litigation.	Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings called a contingency fee.RELATED Trial Lawyers Handling Cities Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions Hagens Bermanstood to earn billions of dollarsin contingency fees depending on the total winnings from a favorable judgement against oil companies.	One of the attorneys heading New York Citys climate litigation made comments in September that could seriously harm the citys mission to sue oil companies for contributing to global warming.	False
After all these findings are based on how we are doing things now he says.	Specifically O'Neill and his fellow researchers ran statistical tests to determine for each environmental measure how much damage it takes to produce a corresponding improvement on each of the social well being indicators.	What does this all mean for humanity?	A much better approach argues O'Neill would be to focus on redistributing the wealth we already have more equitably.	Instead says O'Neill generally the countries that do well on the social indicators do so by consuming resources at a level that could not be extended to all people on the planet.	False
Researchers believe that changes to the Earth's orbit may be partly responsible for some of the Earth's cooling but additional factors have likely played a part Jensen added.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	Theres no shortage of ideas about how this happens but its not quite clear how they all fit together.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING NEW STUDY FINDS What this suggests is that its a feedback loop said the study's lead author Alice Marzocchi.	False
They've got to get an answer to us by Feb. 26 or face the consequences warns Ornstein.	They need to do a whole lot more homework and much more research and analysis before we can ever even really engage in this discussion says Colin Woodall senior vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association.	J. Scott ApplewhiteAP hide caption toggle caption J. Scott ApplewhiteAP Environmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi this past December.	They need to do a whole lot more homework These days transportation accounts for the largest share of greenhouse gas emissions greenhouse gas emissions.	Given the scope and ambitious nature of the Green New Deal it might be tempting to criticize or dismiss activists supporting it.	False
And both FEMA administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering when asked Tuesday whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of the storms.	That same report however found that human activity may have already caused changes and that global warming will likely cause tropical cyclones globally to be more intense on average and lead to an increase in the occurrence of very intense tropical cyclones.	Top Trump administration officials have repeatedly dodged questions about how climate change affected the damage done by hurricanes Harvey and Irma saying the issue should be discussed at a later date.	EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt said last week it was insensitive to address global warming at this time.	The storm and subsequent damage could end up being the costliest natural disaster in US history.	False
'A lot of people don't understand that I have done more environmental impact statements probably than anybody that's I guess I can say definitely because I've done many many many of them.	'We can take care of people that we couldn't afford taking care of the past because of the great wealth we can't let that wealth is taken away clean air clean water thank you very much everybody I appreciate it thank you' he concluded.	And that's what we're doing.	Guterres said Monday that 'we are much worse than we were during Paris ... and so it's absolutely essential that countries commit themselves to increase what was promised.'	Trump was referencing his time as a builder when an environmental review is part of the construction process.	False
Even you.	This is not saying that disaster occurs the next day Rothman says.	Do you know what?	But before you ring up your grandchildren and warnthem to cancel the marquee theyve booked for their 100th birthday celebrations perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothmans cheery prediction.	Second Rothman appears to have given himself so much margin for error as to render his doomsday projection meaningless.	False
It is after all the measure of ones moral fitness to value some things say forgiveness over others vengeance.	We all hold a hierarchy of values.	To commit the soul of the decedent to his final reward?	We make decisions every day accordingly.	Or an opportunity to extolyour passion for environmental justice?	False
Scientific evidenceand input iscrucial to policy efforts.	It informs decision makers.	WASHINGTON The Environmental Protection Agency is drawing heat for pulling its scientists from a paneldiscussion Monday in Rhode Island as part of a conference spotlighting the effects of climate change on the Narragansett Bay.	The withdrawal of the two scientists as well as an agency consultanthas sparked fresh criticism about EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt'sskepticism toward the broad scientific community's conclusion that human caused global warming is a proven fact and a growing concern.	And it should not take away from the terrific scientific work that is being done because at the heart of all this is not the politics its the knowledge.	False
People they note are finally paying attention.	Then he said decide and history will judge the decisions.	Meanwhile reporter Lisa Friedman on Tuesday used a comment from the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to stick up for the tasteless global warming warriors now using the tragedy of Hurricane Irma to forward their environmental agenda in For E.P.A.	Friedman found a Republican to mouth concern over climate change and promptly teed him up in paragraph two while instantly identifying her by party something the paper consistently fails to do with Democrats in trouble Scott Pruitt the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency says it is insensitive to discuss climate change in the midst of deadly storms.	Dr. Kirtman and Dr. Berry are among a group of Florida scientists who confronted Governor Rick Scott in recent years for his refusal to acknowledge that human made greenhouse gases are driving climate change.	False
Lets take a closer look at this.	To Janet this is a moral issue.	But its quite another thing when you live your entire Congressional career as one big liea lie that causes long term harm not only to the folks living in your district but the country as a whole.	These were matters that we have historically agreed on if for no other reason than the sake of our children and grandchildrens future.	And heres why Jordan will live on in villainy.	False
Trump and Pruitt and others of their ilk might have greed and corruption as motives.	Its pure unadulterated selfishness.	This is why deniers exist.	The equation that is most dangerous according to Jeffrey Kluger of Time is n1 otherwise stated as If it matters to me it counts.	They dont want to spend their own money to solve a problem that might affect their grandkids and not themselves.	False
But most importantly methane from natural gas contributes to climate change and is setting us on a path to disaster he added.	They make surrounding communities less healthy and less safe.	We would work it out.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	It causes earthquakes.	False
But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes the BBC reports.	Wildfires are common in the dry season but are also deliberately set by farmers illegally deforesting land for cattle ranching.	I used to be called Captain Chainsaw.	Over the past decade previous governments had managed to reduce deforestation with action by federal agencies and a system of fines.	Last monththe far right president accused Inpes director of lying about the scale of deforestationin the Amazon and trying to undermine the government.	False
These emerging giants have chosen instead to emphasise the historical responsibility of rich nations to lead the way and provide financing to poor countries.	If there was one time in the history when I would say governments fucked up I would say today in Madrid governments fucked up said Mohamed Adow Director of Power Shift Africa.	The United States which is leaving the landmark Paris climate deal next year was accused of acting as a spoiler on a number of issues vital to climate vulnerable nations.	It isn't reflective of the kids who are demonstrating on the streets the world over communities being washed away by rising sea levels he said late Saturday.	This included so called loss and damage funding to help disaster hit countries repair and rebuild.	False
The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	So how do climate activists get their way?	Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of deniers.	The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	False
