Are you an insider at Google Facebook Twitter or any other tech company who wants to confidentially reveal wrongdoing or political bias at your company?	Population control is another solution embraced by geniuses on the left.	Reach out to Allum Bokhari at his secure email addressallumbokhari Allum Bokhari is the senior technology correspondent at Breitbart News.	This followed an article published byNewsweek in which two psychologists mused on the human taboo against cannibalism noting thatphilosophers have argued that burying the dead could be wasteful in the context of the fight against world hunger.	Are you ready to be a parasite for the environment?	False
One of its authors a leading professor from Stanford condemned the US border wall project branding it a 'crime against biodiversity'.	The research paper also calls for the government to encourage scientific research in the borderlands to inform and assist environmental evaluation and mitigation efforts.	The authors conclude that 'national security can and must be pursued with an approach that preserves our natural heritage.'	Some of the recommendations include Following existing environmental laws taking action to mitigate ecological harm and forgoing physical barriers in particularly sensitive areas.	Professor Dirzo added 'Cut off like this the bighorn sheep and other animals and plants will become zombie species populations that are demographically and genetically doomed.'	False
Like this story?	Trump is selling off our oceans and selling out coastal communities and marine life to the oil industry said Kristen Monsell oceans program legal director at the Center for Biological Diversity.	The catastrophe caused 17.2 billion worth of damage to natural resources according to a study in 2017 commissioned by the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.	Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers.	The Center for American Progress a left leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement saying in a statement that offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources.	True
So must the solution.	Thats why we need a to fundamentally transform our society Markey added.	Other Democrats are also supporting the general thrust of Tuesdays report.	The crisis touches every aspect of our lives.	Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and Sen. Ed Markey retweeted links to a report signed by more than 11000 scientists who argue that the population must be stabilizedand ideally gradually reducedwithin a framework that ensures social integrity.	False
Despite sidestepping these laws DHS is committed to responsible environmental stewardship and will continue to assess potential impacts coordinate with relevant stakeholders and to the extent possible offset or mitigate potential impacts department spokesman Carlos Diaz said in an email to HuffPost.	Between 2005 and 2008 the department invoked that authority five times according to the agency.	Driven by an anti immigrant agenda the Trump administration is callously putting construction of an environmentally and culturally destructive border wall above water resources for communities on both sides of the border federally protected lands clean air and the lives of hundreds of endangered species all while turning a blind eye to the vital relationships of cross border communities and our longstanding values as a nation she said in a statement.	Trump wants to scare people into letting him ignore the law and endanger wildlife and people Brian Segee an attorney with the Center for Biological Diversity said in a statement.	DHS has been granted authority to exempt itself from all legal requirements it determines necessary to construct barriers and roads under the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996.	False
My message to you Mr. President is that as a public servant and especially as a president your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people Schwarzenegger begins.	He then proceeds to chronicle the negative effects of pollution in the United States.	We cant sit back and just do nothing while people are getting sick and dying especially when you know theres another way.	But this has nothing to do with the Paris climate accord.	So maybe the next time he decides to criticize the decision to get the U.S. out of the Paris accord he should read the document first.	True
Mr. Inslees absence could create an opening for another presidential aspirant to seize the mantle of climate candidate.	Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality.	Mr. Sanders unveiled his proposal one day after Gov.	WASHINGTON Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a 16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet warming greenhouse gases.	It declares climate change a national emergency envisions building new solar wind and geothermal power sources across the country and commits 200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	True
What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency.	We are still emitting far too much and this needs to be reversed said Erik Solheim head of UN Environment.	We have many of the solutions already to address this challenge.	Other experts in the field of atmospheric research agreed that the WMO findings were a cause for concern.	Another concern in the report is the continuing mysterious rise of methane levels in the atmosphere which were also larger than the average over the past ten years.	True
The Associated Press contributed to this report.	California Gov.	Speaking to MSNBCs Andrea Mitchell at an environmentalsummitin San Francisco last week Brown tore into Trump for the presidents controversial tweets about the death toll in Puerto Rico from last years Hurricane Maria and urged voters to vote for Democrats in Novembers midterm elections in an effort to thwart Trumps agenda.	Jerry Brown ramped up his criticism of President Trump in an interview that aired Monday calling the president a saboteur in the fight to combat climate change and saying that somethings got to happen to this guy.	We're for clean air and water but at the same time we're for reasonable regulations Deputy Interior Secretary David Bernhardt told reporters.	True
The team's eventual aim is to capture the atoll's whole ecosystem from molecule upwards so it can help local governments and communities evaluate future risks and make better decisions.	Technology could help here too.	Rats can cause the collapse of the entire terrestrial ecosystem says Island Conservation's Sally Esposito.	It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market but The Brando proves it is possible says Prof Graham Miller who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey.	The success of the project recently convinced the local government to fund a much larger breeding facility that could see the programme expand to other Pacific islands he says.	True
Both lawmakers were responding to a question asked by Axios Amy Harder during the event.	Theres a resolution that has a dream but theres no bill theres no contents at all.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	We have to work within the systems we have and make sure we are not destroying our economy at the same time were moving to a lower carbon economy Murkowski said.	Republicans on the other hand want to get Democrats on the record in support of a proposal they see as socialism.	False
Members of Congress who signed Tuesdays letter underscored the important role the region plays in ensuring a quick response to spills and contamination in the six states which are criss crossed with oil and gas pipelines spills often near the bulk of the nations freshwater supply and the Mississippi River waterways.	And to be honest thats why its being suggested the employee said.	And in a visit last week to East Chicago Indianawhich is grappling with a lead contamination crisis affecting both the water and soil Pruitt reportedly denied to a resident of the town that Region 5 was on the chopping block.	My question is Why us?	If we have the most industry and we do the most enforcement and get the greatest results what better way to disembowel the EPA than going after Region 5?	True
The owner shall be responsible for ensuring that each customer using the tanning facility is of legal age to do so.	It also calls for guidance regarding the identification of students and compliance with applicable nondiscrimination laws which would include the Equality Act if passed by Congress a big legislative priority of congressionalDdemocrats.	Doctors will also have to screen patients for adverse childhood experiences that may impact a patients physical or mental health or the provision of health care services to the patient.	The bill goes on to describe several areas for this guidance.	Section G of House Bill No.	False
The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Wherever we live whoever we are we all share the same responsibility make our planet great again Macron added.	French President Emmanuel Macron German Chancellor Angela Merkel and and Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentilonisaid in a joint statement that they regretted the United States' decision to withdraw from the accord but affirmed our strongest commitment to implement its measures and encouraged all our partners to speed up their action to combat climate change.	Spokesman Dmitry Peskov added that its implementation will not be as effective without the key signatories.	Bill Ford chairman of the Ford Motor Co. also weighed in saying We believe climate change is real and remain deeply committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in our vehicles and our facilities.	False
Speaking directly to the question of global warming Lagarde said that we will be toasted roasted and grilled if humanity fails to make critical decisions regarding carbon emissions.	This announcement drew fierce criticism from world leaders and activists with former UN secretary general Ban Ki moon accusing Trump of standing on the wrong side of history.	If we dont address the issues of climate change and inequality Ms. Lagarde said Tuesday before a major economic conference in Riyadh we will be moving to a dark future.	As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of carbon footprints and preaching renewable energy they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world.	Most signatories Solomon notes in an essay in last Fridays Financial Post are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios.	True
The old rule put Washington in control of ponds puddles and prairie potholes saidWyoming GOP Sen.Tom Barrasso who chairs the Environment and Public Works Committee.	States would overseemost ditches terrain that fills with water during or in response to rainfall certain wetlands that have been used to grow crops stormwater control ponds and water and wastewater treatment systems.	Polluters were allowed to dump toxic waste into our waterways without consequence.	The Obama administration claimed it was in the interest of water quality but it was really about power power in the hands of the federal government over landowners Wheeler said.	Even a child understands that small streams flow into large streams and lakes which provide drinking water for so many Americans said Craig Cox senior vice president for agriculture and natural resources for the EnvironmentalWorking Group.	False
Scientists and researchers at the University of Michigan the University of Exeter and others came to a similar conclusion in a 2018 study which found that political bias and partisan news reporting can affect whether people indicate experiencing certain extreme weather events.	Last year the Yale program which carries out scientific research on public knowledge about climate change set out to map the partisan divide on how people perceive the effects of global warming across the United States.	Jennifer Marlon a research scientist at the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication said the divergence in the way American perceive the weather is being driven by factors including the news they consume and their social circles.	An overwhelming majority of scientists believe human consumption of fossil fuels is driving sweeping changes in the global climate by ramping up the concentration of heat trapping gases in the atmosphere.	The divergence shows how years of political squabbling over global warming including disputes over its existence have grown deep roots distorting the way Americans view the world around them.	False
We demand climate action that addresses historic injustices by pricing pollution and investing in solutions that improve economic and environmental conditions in front line communities.	We will push our allies in the movement to use racial equity in their analyses by identifying disparate impacts of pollution and climate disruption and designing remedies that improve conditions for the most overburdened first.	Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people.	These are the inextricable demands of a resistance as powerful as it is diverse and as strong as it is resilient.	Our communities to quote environmental justice advocate Majora Carter are the canaries in the coal mine We have already begun to experience climate disruption by virtue of where we live and work and we have always been on the front lines of pollution.	False
Robert A. Franek is a part of Politicus Policy Discussion in which writers draw connections between real lives and public policy.	Each of these is an outrageous moral failure.	When the environment poses an unnecessary threat to ones health life is denied.	One might expect the so called party of life to be concerned about this.	Assuring that all have life liberty and the pursuit of happiness is a fundamental moral commitment that we share as citizens working together for the common good of all people and the whole creation.	True
While man is having an effect on climate he said most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in.	Skepticism that fails to account for evidence is no virtue.	Answer my question why will you not say that climate change is caused by carbon dioxide?	Energy Secretary Rick Perry offered little explanation when protesters pressed him to explain his position on climate change at an energy conference on Tuesday.	You are a climate denier said the first demonstrator as members of the audience booed and called for her to sit down and to get her out of here.	True
The administration argues he doesn't have jurisdiction.	Department of Homeland Security.	The law and the Constitution are firmly on our side and we think the judge will agree.'	A lawsuit has been filed by the Center for Biological Diversityenvironmental groups and the State of California against theU.S.	Curiel came to national attention in 2016 when he was presiding over one of the cases against Trump University.	True
But were not being given the option of deciding how to do it ourselves.	We want to be the ones to make the decisions on how were going to contribute.	Andrew Cuomos support.	Certainly.	Theres an issue with that.	True
Acting Assistant U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Wood said during a hearing before Gleason in November that environmental groups were misinterpreting the intent of the law written in 1953.	At issue in the case was the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act.	The American Petroleum Institute a defendant in the case disagreed with the ruling.	Erik Grafe an attorney with Earthjustice welcomed the ruling saying it shows that the president cannot just trample on the Constitution to do the bidding of his cronies in the fossil fuel industry at the expense of our oceans wildlife and climate.	Earthjustice represented numerous environmental groups that sued the Trump administration over the April 2017 executive order reversing the drilling bans.	True
Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project the group that conducted the papers report was also involved in an investigation last November targeting Exxons climate change research.	Global warming is partially responsible for a decades old oil spill that happened after an Exxon Mobil tanker hit a barrier reef according to a Los Angeles Times report funded in part by liberal billionaire George Soros.	Thursdays report dovetails with the groups previous investigations showing the oil company hid knowledge about climate change from the public for years.	TheFund has made grants to the Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project and InsideClimate News but hasno involvement in articles they produce the papers disclosure notes.	It also pressured various attorneys general into investigating Exxon namely for the purposes of bringing the company up on racketeering charges.	True
We still have a long way to go in our understanding said Seewald who was not involved in the study.	A press conference viewer asking questions of the scientists via Twitter asked if NASA was talking about bacteria or algae or giant squids.	The researchers reported that the hydrogen along with carbon dioxide that was also found could mean that undersea microbes are producing methane as they do in the bowels of our own oceans and waterways.	It really represents a capstone finding for the mission said Cassinis project scientist Linda Spilker noting that the spacecraft has been circling Saturn for more than a decade.	Scientists have long known about the plumes of water vapor spewing from cracks at the moons south pole thanks to Cassini .	True
Jobs matter!	Critics of Trumps energy policies seized on the opportunity to criticize the president for his Earth Day message.	Then start taking action on global warming and quit calling it fake news said self described feminist and human rights activist Cole Ledford to Trump.	It initiates a review of efforts to reduce the emission of methane in oil and natural gas production as well as a Bureau of Land Management hydraulic fracturing rule to determine whether those reflect the presidents policy priorities.	Public radio show host Al Letson wrote How will you preserve the natural beauty of the land if you dismantle the Nathan Bernard from Brooklyn New York replied on Twitter You say Happy as you prepare to literally blow up the entire earth.	True
The proposals electrified a static debate that too often ranged from outright denialism of climate change by some to dubious market fixes offered by others.	We have young people that bring a lot of great qualities but maybe they dont bring a lot of life experience he said.	We should be open to the fact that wealth transfer schemes suggested in the radical policies like the Green New Deal may not be the best path said Shimkus who less than a decade ago deployed Bible verses to dismiss the realities of climate science.	After failing to persuade House Democratic leaders to establish a select committee on a Green New Deal she began work on a sweeping new resolution outlining a transformative policy to guarantee high wage clean energy jobs to millions of Americans and upgrade the nations crumbling infrastructure to withstand already unavoidable extreme weather and sea level rise.	Gohmert told panel witness Rev.	False
Previously as Californias attorney general Harris was charged with protecting the states progressive environmental laws in the courts.	She also reportedly launched an investigation in 2016 into whether Exxon Mobil lied to the public and shareholders about the risks of climate change though her office never confirmed the probe.	The plan is meant to set the U.S. senator from California apart in a crowded field of Democratic presidential candidates by drawing on her experience prosecuting polluters as a California attorney general and district attorney.	Since then both New York and Massachusetts have pursued cases against the oil company.	Bahram Fazeli director of research and policy for Communities for a Better Environment a California focused environmental justice group said Harris record on the environment was decent.	True
Im sure theres giant corruption going on.	A bigger worry he says are the wrong headed policies being introduced supposedly to combat climate change.	The solution he argues is nuclear power which has had a terrible press because of green propaganda most likely funded by fossil fuel industries.	Though he still thinks carbon dioxide is a problem because of its warming effects on the climate he now believes the threat is not immediate.	His change of heart was brought aboutpartly by being in Oslo when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.	False
With very few exceptions governments all over the world have fallen into the trap of paying renewable energy scammers on the basis that it is necessary at least politically to be seen to be doing something about climate change Sloan writes before providing readers with an avalanche of economic data to back up her assertion.	Earlier this month the prominent Australian economist Judith Sloan wrote a scathing essay decrying renewable energy as the greatest scam being perpetrated against taxpayers and consumers greater even than Ponzi Madoffor Enron.	The current state of affairs has not only undermined Germanys climate policy but also jeopardizes Germanys international reputation as a climate leader Solomon asserts.	Meanwhile Solomon notes in an essay in Fridays Financial Post most signatories are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios.	Apparently Sloans arguments and those of like minded analysts prevailed on policy makers and the country rejected the CET with its taxpayer funded subsidizing of renewables.	True
He didn't thank the armies of firefighters who are battling the blazes or the nine people who have died in the infernos.	That move gives Californians access to unemployment assistance food aid and legal and mental health counseling and makes federal financial assistance available to cities and counties that will have to repair billions of dollars worth of infrastructure damage.	'We do manage all of our rivers in California and all the water is allocated many times over.	And most engaged in the effort are using chemical flame retardants.	It also allows federal agencies to help battle the 17 major fires burning throughout the state including what is now known as the 'Carr fire' which is just 40 per cent contained and has incinerated more than 1000 homes.	False
The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Report director David Reidmiller said questions about the timing were relevant but said what was in the report was more important.	While Gore has become one of the most prominent advocates for reducing carbon emissions and fighting to reduce the effect of climate change the former vice president has not been immune from claims that his work is not as altruistic as it appears.	He is a flawed character Stephen Lacey editor in chief of the magazine GreenTechMedia said on his podcast The Energy Gang last year.	Former Vice President Al Gore accused the Trump administration of trying to bury a damning government report that linked global warming to the worsening of natural disasters by quietly releasing the study on the Friday after Thanksgiving.	True
The IPCC noted the literature indicates that the pricing of emissions is relevant but needs to be complemented with other policies to drive the required changes in line with 1.5C consistent cost effective pathways.	While the price of carbon is central to prompt mitigation pathways compatible with 1.5 degree Celsius consistent pathways a complementary mix of stringent policies is required reads the IPCCs report.	The IPCCs report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December.	The report calls for societal changes that are unprecedented in terms of scale in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius the stretch goal of the Paris accord.	California and many European countries have policies to price carbon dioxide emissions and mandate green energy including cap and trade systems and carbon taxes.	True
the former secretary of state asked.	the congressman asked.	I dont know who he has there because it'ssecret he replied.	JOHN KERRY SLAMMED FOR 'SHAMEFUL' SHADOW DIPLOMACY AFTER ADMITTING TO MEETINGS WITH IRAN The two men continued their back and forth before Massie asked Kerry if he was saying the president doesnt have educated adults there now.	I think its somewhat appropriate that somebody with a pseudoscience degree is here pushing pseudoscience in front of our committee Massie said before Kerry fired back.	False
Warren argues that justice plays a massive role in properly addressing the climate change crisis citing studies that suggest that black and Hispanic families are disproportionately affected by air pollution caused by white people Warren calls this phenomenon environmental racism and concludes that environmental injustice is the result of decades of discrimination and environmental racism compounding in communities that have been overlooked for too long.	Polluters must pay for the consequences of their actions not leave them for the communities to clean up.	These communities need justiceand I will stand with them she added	However Warrens role in crafting a petition to the Supreme Court on behalf of LTV Steel which helped the companys fight against a congressional requirement that it pay millions of dollars into a fund for its retired coal miners health care calls her promise into question.	Warren also reiterates her pledge to ensure that employers and our government honor the promises they made to workers in fossil fuel industries.	True
Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on climate change and the migrant caravan claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence climate change is also playing a part based on an interview with a farmer turned migrant whos crop failed.	Many experts who have seriously examined claims linking climate to violent conflict and mass migrations have found little evidence to support such claims but the media still applied the narrative by linking global warming to Central American migrations.	Experts say that climate change in the region is exacerbating and sometimes causing a miasma of other problems including crop failures and povertyThe Guardian reported in October.	Migrants are fleeing violent corrupt countries with poor economies but some environmentalists and journalists claim global warming is also to blame.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True
People are suffering.	Thunbergs fiery speech was likewise met with praise or disdain depending on where one stood in regard to the narrative of manmade climate change.	We are all Greta another resistance activist proclaimed sharing a photo of Thunberg scowling at Trump next to a photo of her meeting his predecessor Barack Obama.	You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words she thundered at the world leaders on Monday.	Later on Monday the president did finally notice the young activist.	False
And to think that you're going to be able to stave offpublic concerns and public demand for action by ... writing a denial report seems too late.	Asked about the formation of the panel a National Security Council representative said the administration wants to ensure that decisions are fully informed and based on the most accurate and relevant information available.	The panel's findings could give President Donald Trump who has challenged his own government's conclusions about the causes of and threats from climate change more ammunition to ignore it.	John Kasich who ran against Trump in 2016 is expected to say at a speech Tuesday at the University of British Columbia.	WASHINGTON The Democratic chairman of a key congressional panel Tuesday characterized the Trump administration's latest efforts to challenge the science behind climate change as dangerous.	True
Pruitt was among about two dozen attorney generals who sued to stop President Barack Obamas push to limit carbon emissions.	Closely tied to the oil and gas industry in his home state Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man man emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change.	Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker contributed to this report from Washington.	The rule dictated specific emission targets for states based on power plant emissions and gave officials broad latitude to decide how to achieve reductions.	Appearing at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Pruitt said The EPA and no federal agency should ever use its authority to say to you we are going to declare war on any sector of our economy.	True
Climate change is a reality and not to address it is gross negligence by government said Cuomo according to a new page on the state website with the banner Environment Leadership.	If we can get it onto his desk hell have no choice but to sign it.	The 71 year old lawmaker from Setauket a coastal hamlet on Long Island Sound started warning about the threat of runaway global warming two decades ago.	There needs to be some adjustments made in the perception of how important this bill is to bring it into the executive chamber ready for the governors signatureEnglebright said Friday.	It requires 40 percent of state energy funding to go to the low income neighborhoods and communities of color most vulnerable to sea level rise and extreme weather and includes wage standards backed by labor unions for all state funded green energy projects.	False
Making sure companies capture and sell the gas drilled on public lands ensures that the American taxpayers get the biggest return possible for leasing that land.	The better we protect our environment the better we can protect people.	But with a problem as big as climate change and as multifaceted as national security every step is worthwhile.	Extreme weather events made worse by climate change disrupt local communities and weaken the civic institutions that act as a bulwark against terrorists and extremism.	By producing energy in the United States and limiting pollution were making the world safer.	True
The job of the next president will be to undo the damage Trump has wrought.	There will be much handwringing about the shattering of democratic norms but the real work will be in doing whatever we can in the little time we have to avert a true climate catastrophe.	He was chief counsel to Senator James Inhofe of Oklahoma a proud denier of climate change.	We are left with no other alternatives.	Rural landowners complained about the government regulating how much pollution from chemical fertilizers and pesticides could seep into water on their property.	False
He also blamed the states bad environmental laws the most protective in the nation and trees.	Be the solution not the problem.	As California wildfires claimed their seventh victimDonald Trumpfinally weighed in on the tragedy with one of his most confounding tweets ever blaming California for the blazes because it diverts water to the Pacific Ocean.	Primrose Lane August 6 2018 No you scientists have been seeing the fingerprints of all over these fires and it's making them far worse.	Your destructive environmental policy is what causes climate change.	False
There is no dealing with climate change unless we deal with corruption Gunn Wright said in a video set to be released Thursday afternoon.	2 concern after health care for Iowa caucusgoers in a Monmouth University survey from April.	Buttigiegs climate adviser David Victor has been called a fossil fuel shill for taking research funding from an oil giant and deflecting blame from the industry.	The endorsement comes as Warren is sliding in national polls which commentators have largely attributed to her apparent wobbling on Medicare for All.	Youth Climate Strike and 18 year old activist Jamie Margolin.	False
Washington Democratic Gov.	Now Inslees back with an even more urgent message Adopt policies to tackle global warming or there is not survival.	Inslee and his allies cited the recent National Climate Assessment to back equating future global warming to Nazi Germany sweeping across Europe.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Churchill gave similar remarks before British Parliament in May 1940 in the early days of World War II.	True
President Obama made commitments in this deal based off a costly power plan that we knew at the time was on shaky legal ground.	But make no mistake if President Trump won't lead the American people will.	If President Trump wants nations like China and India to take stronger and swifter action on climate then he should do so through the accountability and enforcement provisions in the Paris Agreement not by breaking our word and storming out of the room.	President Trump acted in America's best interest moving away from a flawed agreement that placed too heavy a burden on American jobs and opening the door to a new agreement that reaches the right balance.	This damages our nation's reputation as an international leader and puts future generations at risk to the threat of climate change.	False
It also caused the community to become infested with flies the complaint states.	Wright said there are many reasons waste is sometimes transported out of state.	In South Carolina a plan to store radioactive nuclear waste in a rural area prompted complaints that the state was being turned into a nuclear dump.	Rural parts of Alabama are prime targets for landfills that accept out of state waste it argued meaning that Alabama was becoming a dumping ground for the rest of the nation.	Alabamas inexpensive land and permissive zoning laws and a federal ban on dumping New Yorkers excrement in the ocean got the poop train chugging experts say.	False
Instead experts point to other elements making the storm's impact worse which they know are related to climate change.	On Sunday a spokesman for UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said he was appealing for additional resources from the international community to fund the response in the immediate medium and longer term.	It is unclear if these deaths are recorded in the government total.	It's raining again and the second flight couldn't go.	But attempts to reach those areas had not been entirely successful.	False
He added that protection from liability would be important to Exxon which is under investigation for its past statements and actions on climate change.	A company spokesman said the liability component of the plan was not part of the companys decision to endorse it.	Some environmental groups did not accept that explanation on Tuesday.	Mr. Gerrard added If a sufficiently high carbon tax were imposed it could accomplish a lot more for fighting climate change than liability suits.	Michael B. Gerrard the director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia Law School and an expert on climate litigation said there had been four suits brought against energy companies over climate change including one brought by the eroding Arctic coastal town of Kivalina Alaska.	True
I think I know more about the environment than most people he added.	A lot of people dont understand that Trump said citing his experience filing environmental impact statements for real estate developments.	On windmills.	The heads of government of the other six nations that comprise the G 7 were there.	Im an environmentalist.	True
Wind farms across the globe kill thousands of birds a year that inadvertently fly into their turbines.	They submitted their concerns to theU.S.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of Energy.	This is far from the first time bird advocates have lamented over wind turbines.	True
In so doing the government has deprived the plaintiffs the youngest is 11 years old the right to a safe and stable climate system.	We would have preferred to go to trial submit our extensive evidence and have the judge require the defendants to come up with a plan a national climate recovery plan for how theyre going to go about doing this Gregory said.	As Gregory and the other attorneys for the children wrote in their injunction request This injunction is urgently needed because despite long standing knowledge of the resulting destruction to our Nation and the profound harm to these young Plaintiffs Defendants ongoing development of the fossil fuel based energy system is actively harming Plaintiffs and jeopardizing Plaintiffs ability to obtain the full remedy in their case.	Besides suing the government several counties and cities are seeking damages from coal oil and gas companies for contributing to climate change which in turn is posing a public nuisance to these jurisdictions.	Philip Gregory one of the lead attorneys representing the children filing suit explained that the injunction request is meant to address the urgency of limiting climate change by reducing emissions from fossil fuels immediately.	True
The nascent field of attribution science attempts to explain how climate change may affect characteristics of a given hurricane using models in what if mode.	Such research requires a faithful reproduction of events and predictions of the future constrained by subjective choices within computer models.	By focusing on whether climate change caused a hurricane journalists fail to appreciate the complexity of extreme weather events.	Anyone trying to score political points after a natural disaster should take a deep breath and review the science first.	Even as we worked to divine exactly where the hurricanes would land a media narrative began to form linking the devastating storms to climate change.	True
Jerry Brown a Democrat blamed man made global warming for the states rash of intense fires in the last couple of years however wildfire experts and conservatives tend to blame poor land management policies coupled with the expansion of human development into fire prone areas.	California Gov.	President Donald Trump blamed bad environmental laws for making wildfires spreading across California much worse in a Sunday tweet.	RELATED NYT Claims Global Greening From CO2 Is Terrible Gets Owned State officials said the Carr Fire was sparked in late July by a flat tire on a trailer scraping against the asphalt on a road near Redding California.	However its unclear how diverting water into the Pacific Ocean affects wildfires in California.	True
That has all kind of consequences both locally for this region for the animals and the people who live here as well as globally Max Holmes a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska told the New York Times.	Holmes led a team of scientists in July to take permafrost cores sediment and water samples from the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge to better understand how thawing permafrost affects the landscape and how much and what mix of greenhouse gases are released.	In order to know how much is lost you have to know how much is there Sue Natali a Woods Hole scientist and permafrost expert told the New York Times.	As global temperatures rise scientists are trying to determine the likely speed and scale of the melting of Alaskas permafrost.	When permafrost melts microbes convert carbon to carbon dioxide causing even more warming.	False
Theyve said the same thing before Sen. Marco Rubio R Fla. said adding that his responsibility was to balance those interests raised in that report with his states broader economic and security interests.	a climate change skeptic said of the actions urged by the report.	We should be doing everything we can said Natalie Mahowald a climate scientist at Cornell University and lead author of the reports first chapter.	Thats the main thing about getting to the emmissions goal is just how aggressively we have to act in every different sector of our society.	On Wednesday he claimed that the panel recognized by others as the worlds leading authority on climate change had been totally discredited and dismissed its latest findings.	True
And the activity of this range could have worrying consequences they have warned.	He set up the project with the help of Bingham.	It is something we will have to watch closely Bingham said.	The discovery is particularly important because the activity of these volcanoes could have crucial implications for the rest of the planet.	That is something we need to determine as quickly as possible.	True
We'll pass a win the solutions we need.	The group urged her to step aside if she is unable to mandate such a plan.	We're running out of time to act.	We can embrace the energy of activism to move our partys goals forward.	Pelosis office in a statement shared by Ocasio Cortez on Twitter expressed support for the activists and said that she has recommended reinstating the Select Committee on Climate Change a special climate change committee that was dissolved by Republicans in 2011.	False
In fact the challenge before us is a case study in market failures to suggest that market based policies on their own will solve this existential challenge is nave at best.	This summer in the midst of unprecedented chaos and dysfunction in Washington California lawmakers stepped up with a bipartisan solution to one of the most pressing challenges facing our state this nation and the world.	Thats why Californias comprehensive suite of climate policies including our mandates to generate clean energy improve energy efficiency and reduce vehicle tailpipe emissions strikes a necessary balance between market based and direct regulations.	Cap and trade is an important tool in Californias climate policy portfolio.	Most importantly policies that directly reduce pollution are our most effective tools to improve public health and quality of life in the most disproportionately impacted communities.	False
For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	So congressman its like this in calculus terms.	This would be dT dt where capital T is temperature and and the lower case is time or congressmans staff if out there thats the problem.	Bill Nye took on Republican Rep. Thomas Massey who claims to be an electrical engineer but he doesnt understand climate change.	So congressman or the congressmans staff heres the hockey stick graph that you guys love to go off thats been debunked.	False
I will take a balanced approach to governing.	You have members who have been in our caucus and who will be coming into our caucus that want to see that happen she added.	That committee Aird acknowledged would enable the House to take a proactive role in oversight of the states utility monopolies.	You have in my opinion a Commonwealth that wants to see that.	Having gender equality public safety LGBTQ equality gun safety those are the things we should be able to accomplish regardless of whos in charge Only taking care of those things is such a cheap cop out for what a party should stand for.	False
As a responsible developing country Chinas plan determination and policy to tackle climate change is resolute Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang told the Associated Press.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Why the push abroad?	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	Coal workers also travel to these projects keeping them from losing their jobs.	False
Thanks to scientific knowledge we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods such as the Paris Accord which sadly some have abandoned he said.	In his Spanish language address to the U.N. agency Francis denounced negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet and the greed for profit.	We cant be satisfied by saying someone else will do it' the pope said.	Many world leaders have criticized Trump for deciding to pull out.	The yoke of poverty caused by the often tragic movement of migrants can be removed by prevention consisting of development projects that create jobs and offer the capacity to respond to climactic and environmental changes he said.	False
In a video message Brazilian novelist Paulo Coelho offered an apology to France for what he called Bolsonaros hysteria saying the Brazilian government had resorted to insults to dodge responsibility for the Amazon fires.	The kids are affected the most.	Not just our children.	Schneider an associate professor in the geography department said fire is commonly used by people to clear land for cultivation and the actual area burned this year must be measured for an accurate comparison with damage in past years.	But for now more immediate consequences of the raging flames were becoming clear.	True
Carol Browner who served as the agencys chief from 1993 to 2001 said Pruitt was wrong to cast California as wielding outsize influence over the regulations.	The agency also said it planned to reconsider how climate change factored in to regulation noting that the social cost of carbon and energy security valuation ... should also be updated to be consistent with the literature and empirical evidence.	This is all just another case of this administration wanting to make good on their political rhetoric and in this case not even wanting to make good for our own automakersMcCarthy now the director of Harvard Universitys Center for Health and the Global Environmenttold HuffPost.	The decision prompted sharp criticism from former EPA administrators.	She noted that the Golden State compromised on a number of rules including a zero emissions vehicle program.	False
Sher who was with Sher Leff at the time allegedPawas group Pawa Law Group failed to distribute money from a settlement in the case.	They also accuse energy companies of trying to downplay the harms their products allegedly cause.	Hagens Berman and Sher Edlings dramacomes after New York fileda lawsuit in October against Exxon for allegedly downplaying for decades the risk the companys oil products pose on the climate.	Two of the attorneys representing various cities in climate litigation against oil companies have a history of suing and counter suing each other over personal squabbles according to documents obtained by The Daily Caller News Foundation.	Exxon was made to pay roughly 29 percent of market share which equaled roughly 236372664 at the time of the lawsuit.	False
What is being done here is an atrocity against us.	Opposition MPs have said the raging infernos are a crime against humanity and blamed his policies for fuelling the blazes.	Mr Bolsonaro largely ignored the issue at first and even attempted to blame environmental charities accusing them of lighting the fires.	Environmentalists and academics have blamed the Brazilian government under far right President Jair Bolsonaro for a sharp increase in Amazon deforestation.	Camila Veiga of the Brazilian Association of NGOs said The fires are the consequence of a policy of environmental devastation of support for agribusiness of increasing pastures.	False
Children are powerful drivers of change because they go home and talk to their parents about it says Zana Kontamanoli.	Plastic pollution is very complex and there's not one solution says Jo Royle.	Paros was chosen because its changes in population give it complexity and because she found out when she visited the island that people were already working on the issue.	And while many residents are enthusiastic about the project there are still some that need convincing.	Paros residents Stella Cervello and Zana Kontamanoli are behind the Clean Blue Paros initiative that involves the local municipality as well as several NGOs.	False
The researchers study in Nature provided no proof oftheclaim global warming is caused by humans or that global warming will cause the severe problemsCampbell said it will in the quotes provided by the UC Merced article.	He says despite the researchers findings which clearly show global warming helps plantsand thus also helping humans and animalsglobal warming has many negative effects too such as causing climate change which will increase flooding of coastal cities extreme weather and ocean acidification.	Campbell said the evidence shows a fundamental shift in the Earths plants and that global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race.	The leading candidates are rising atmospheric CO2 levels a result of emissions from human activities longer growing seasons a result of climate change caused by CO2 emissions and nitrogen pollution another result of fossil fuel combustion and agriculture the article also claims.	The study did however show increased carbon dioxide levels have generally helped plants and crops.	False
The people believe them.	The Illinois based group which hasties to the fossil fuel billionaires who run Koch Industries boasted in July that the White House reached out for help identifying scientists for these debates.	Todays climate priests tell people they must cut out their CO2 emissions and pay penances to other nations like China to save our climate.	Thats the first assumption the blue team makes and they have to prove that thats true he said.	I would go right down to the core starting with the question How much do human emissions increase atmospheric carbon dioxide?	True
Well this is the end result of that decision.	They were afraid that it would end up hurting whichever candidate goes into the general election next year.	Ten Democratic presidential hopefuls will appear in New York at back to back town halls on Wednesday September 4 taking audience questions about their climate plans as scientists sound the alarm about global warming.	Here are the details of this marathon non debate town hall Id rather fall into a 40000 foot deep man made hole in Russia than watch Democrats tell us how were all going to die in 12 years if we dont get rid of fossil fuels.	We told you last week that the DNC refused to allow their 2020 Democratic candidates to debate the issue of Climate Change.	False
Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants alleged California activities to plaintiffs harm.	Trial lawyers with Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled climate lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings called a contingency fee.RELATED Trial Lawyers Handling Cities Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions Hagens Bermanstood to earn billions of dollarsin contingency fees depending on the total winnings from a favorable judgement against oil companies.	They argue that Exxon and others should pony up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change.	From all that appears in the amended complaints howeverthis worldwide chain of events Exxons oil production does not depend on a particular defendants contacts with California he said.	His decision follows a ruling the judge made in June dismissing both cases on the grounds that Congress not the court system is responsible for addressing the emission of greenhouse gasses.	True
And so weve been here before and we have a blueprint of doing this before.	Ocasio Cortez the democratic socialist expected to become the next U.S. representative for New Yorks 14th Congressional District likened climate change to the existential threat posed by Nazi Germany and the Axis.	Climate scientists tend to agree.	In a Gallup poll last month just 1 percent of Americans including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats chose environmentpollution as the countrys most important problem from a list of dozens of issues.	Still the policy seems far off at best.	True
For their part farmers said they received far less water than promised by state and federal authorities.	Its worth taking a moment to be grateful for all the rain and snow out there Felicia Marcus chair of the State Water Resources Control Board told reporters on a conference call after the governors announcement.	The 2015 order led environmentalists to complain that the state which leads the nation in production of fruits and vegetables did too little to force farmers to conserve water.	California officials have credited residents for doing their part to conserve water by taking shorter showers and ripping out grass lawns to install landscaping that requires minimal irrigation among other measures.	Brown also said the need for conservation continued.	True
The report is not without its controversies.	He has criticized the medias handling of similar reports.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	They used a Representative Concentration Pathway adopted by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes IPCC fifth Assessment Report AR5 to make their conclusions.	True
Site owners are ultimately liable for cleanup costs but a taxpayer funded trust fund is in place when sites must be addressed quickly are abandoned or when owners dont have the resources.	The cost of cleaning up a site depends on a variety of factors including the extent of contamination and state cleanup standards.	At some point such a deep cut makes any agency effectively non responsive Thomas said.	But state officials environmental activists and public health advocates warn that the size of the cut carries great risk considering groundwater is the source of drinking water for nearly half of all Americans.	Ben Thomas a former tank inspector and state regulator in Alaska who now consults with private operators on meeting the inspection rules said cutting the program would hurt businesses that have come to appreciate the heavy stick of enforcement for bad players and the general community outreach.	False
Adam Koniuszewski project leader of the Gorbachev Climate Change Task Force a think tank that focuses on global challenges posed by climate change agreed with Whitman.	We have many priorities at the agency.	It's a shame for us to lose our leadership position said Christine Todd Whitman the EPA administrator during the George W. Bush administration.	What we need to do is make sure the transition to clean energy which is inevitable is a just and fair transition one that helps coal dependent communities and workers make transitions into other kinds of jobs Becker said.	We can come up with better ways to provide power to people and still keep jobs.	True
His advocacy on the issue goes back many years he lost his seat in Congress after voting for the 1994 assault weapons ban.	While Mr. Inslee has made clear that he intends to focus overwhelmingly on climate change he is on the record supporting liberal policies in many other areas.	Mr. Inslee also tried unsuccessfully last year to get the Washington Legislature to vote on a carbon tax which would have been the first in the nation voters rejected the proposal in November.	While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels Washington had the highest G.D.P.	His environmental policy record in his home state is long.	True
In December 2009 the islands stalled talks atUnited Nations Climate Change ConferenceinCopenhagen fearing some other developing countries were not committing fully to binding deals on a reduction in carbon emission their chief negotiator stated Tuvalu is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to climate change and our future rests on the outcome of this meeting.57When the conference failed to reach a binding meaningful agreement Tuvalus representative Ian Fry said It looks like we are being offered30 pieces of silverto betray our people and our future Our future is not for sale.	Asrecently as last year anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu pop.	This new category of refugee needs to find a place in international agreements.	We need to better anticipate support requirements similar to those of people fleeing other unviable situations.	In his speech Fry claimed man made global warming to be currently the greatest threat to humanity and ended with an emotional the fate of my country rests in your hands.59 Tuvalus plightalso formed part of the basis for arguably the most hysterical fake news claim in the history of climate alarmism the UNs prediction that by the end of 2010 climate change would have created 50 million environmental refugees.	True
A scenario where were all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed.	When pie in the sky thinking meets end of times conspiracy theories we get something like this.	All we have to do is give up our common sense.	The cost of this ten year plan?7 trillion.	Still Ocasio Cortez believes that if this plan gets put into action itll solve every problem under the sun including racism and bigotry.	False
But how impactful can individual action be in the absence of systemic changes from the top?	Eventually it dawned on me that I should maybe bring my actions into alignment with my beliefs.	Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research no part may be reproduced without the written permission.	Some people like Tarek Maassarani take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes.	Kalmus who has written a book on his experiences said meeting critical goals to avert disaster will require a rapid cultural transformation and acts of individual defiance help achieve that.	True
I would love to understand this logic.	Somehow government run healthcare family sustainable wages paid leave and affordable housing are also required for a clean economy the writer wrote.	This is honesty sp about how Democrats would micromanage private life.	If a bunch of GOPers plotted to forge a fake Democratic bill showing how bonkers the party is they could not have done a better job.	Cows produce methane why alarmists want to get rid of livestock Stressel wrote.	False
Earlier this week Zinke blamed environmental terrorist groups for California's destructive wildfires in an interview with Breitbart Radio.	However Zinke also reiterated an argument that he made earlier this week blaming environmental groups for preventing dead trees from being cleared due to their opposition to the logging industry.	When asked by CBS News reporter Weijia Jiang whether he accepted that climate change was part of the problem Zinke said of course.	Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke suggested that climate change may have a role in the recent wildfires that have ravaged California.	He also acknowledged that temperatures are rising.	True
Exxon admitted there were issues at its plants in a regulatory filing to the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.	In this case it caused product to spill to the ground.	It added it was taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment.	Oil giant Exxon Mobil is among the companies to report incidents of emissions released at its refineries as a result of the hurricane which ransacked coastal parts of Texas and caused widespread flooding in the countrys fourth biggest city Houston.	This effectively means the affected companies can report whatever they wish without any oversight from the state regulators.	False
Like this story?	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	At around the same time his campaign cautioned voters not to turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines an ironic coincidence or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event?	Before Bidens eye exploded the audience had been raking him over the coals for a scheduled fundraiser the following night at the home of a natural gas executive.	Viewers called him out for rambling incoherent answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry.	True
Members of Congress Democratic and Republican must ensure accountability for this rogue administrator.	History provides precedents of how the boundless zealotry of new wrecking crews ultimately leads to self inflicted wounds and scandals.	Lets be clear about what is at issue here.	Mr. Pruitt makes himself vulnerable with all the ex parte contacts and corporate advisors to many serious offenses including a violation of the procedures of the Federal Advisory Committee Act b conflict of interest rules c violation of both criminal and civil laws by the overreaching industry lobbyists who constitute Pruitts tight cadre of clenched jawed political appointees.	He is also hostile to the precautionary principle which shifts the burden of proof to the progenitors of new chemical or particulate or gas into the environment.	False
According to a study that is often drawn upon to make the case for liability the two largest contributors to the rise in CO2 emissions since 1980 are Saudi Aramco and Gazprom the state owned oil companies of Saudi Arabia and Russia.	As David Bookbinder at the Niskanen Center notes while all of the complaints are grounded in the energy companies alleged accountability for rising sea levels they fall into two essential categories.	We are expected to believe that energy companies covered up the damage done by fossil fuels and yet publicly available industry funded research is cited as evidence that the companies were aware of the harms they were causing.	The other plaintiffs namely San Mateo County Marin County and Imperial Beach are employing a much more scattershot strategy not only in the number of defendants that they name nearly 40 but in alleging design defect failure to warn negligence and trespass in addition to public nuisance.	As the eminent legal scholar Richard Epstein puts it If youre going to need a system of regulation you can do that in a thousand different ways but erratic independent lawsuits in separate courts by separate people is the wrong way to go.	True
We will no longer accept this injustice.	Now we will make our voices heard.	We demand justice for all past current and future victims of the climate crisis and so we are rising up read an open letter that the activists published on the Guardian claiming they would be protesting on every continent on Friday.	RELATEDThousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests We have the right to live our dreams and hopes the letter continues.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False
These omissions require a remand with instructions to the Department to satisfy its obligations under NEPA Morris wrote.	However Morris argued that the department had not given areasoned explanation for how it came to this conclusion.	Morris had ruled in August that the State Department had to reach a conclusion on the environmental impacts of the pipeline but determined Thursday that the departments analysis had left out information he considered to be crucial.He also accused the State Department of usingoutdated information about potential environmental impacts instead ofthe best scientific and commercial data available.	In a 54 page decision Judge Brian Morris of the U.S. District Court in Montana granted an injunction to the Indigenous Environmental Network and Northern Plains Resource Council against the U.S. State Department the TransCanada Keystone Pipeline and the TransCanada Corporation.	TransCanada has claimed that the pipeline would result in few oil spills by decreasing the amount of oil being transported by rail and lower greenhouse gas emissions by lowering the amount of oil being transported by ocean tanker.	False
He gave a speech at the opening ceremony of the summit and said We are facing a man made disaster of global scale.	'There's absolutely no doubt that the Trump effect has created a sense of uncertainty in terms of the political commitment to achieve anything close to a 2C target.'	It also claims it has soured the atmosphere and damaged goodwill in the international arena.	A study fromthe Institute of International and European Affairs says Trump's decision has created the 'moral and political cover for others to follow suit' in leaving the agreement.	It read 'What ministers and other leaders say and do in Katowice at COP24 will help determine efforts for years to come and either bring the world closer to meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement including protecting those most vulnerable to climate change or push action further down the road.	True
CPP and the other climate regulations imposed by the Obama administration were justified based on the EPAs determination carbon dioxide poses a threat to human health and the environment a concept known as the endangerment finding.	Relying on unsubstantiated projections produced by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change the EPA determined carbon dioxide emissions from cars and industry threaten human welfare.	H. Sterling Burnett Ph.D. hburnett is a research fellow on energy and the environment at The Heartland Institute a nonpartisan nonprofit research center headquartered in Arlington Heights Illinois.	In truth this presents a problem for Trump.	The EPAs decision was not unexpected.	False
While advocates of climate common sense are pleased with the recent court decisions the acceptance that humans are causing dangerous climate change by the oil and gas defendants is very disappointing.	New York Citysoughtmonetary damages from BP Chevron Conoco Phillips ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell as compensation for damage caused by dangerous global warming allegedly caused by the companies.	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	Judge Keenanruledthat it would thus be illogical to allow the City to bring state law claims when courts have found that these matters are areas of federal concern that have been delegated to the Executive Branch as they require a uniform national solutionGlobal warming and solutions thereto must be addressed by the other two branches of government.	Other state entities alsoinitiatedlegal action this year.	True
When the US Geological Survey last week announced a major discovery of oil and natural gas underneath Texas and New Mexico Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke called it a gift.	Zinke's position involves the dual and sometimes competing roles of overseeing leases to develop resources such as oil natural gas and minerals and preserving federal lands for wildlife and human recreational uses.	American strength flows from American energy and as it turns out we have a lot of American energy.	The United States was willing to note the report and express appreciation to the scientists who developed it but not to welcome it as that would denote endorsement of the report the State Department said in a statement.	Countries were asked to welcome the report put out by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change which says governments around the world must take rapid far reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society to avoid disastrous levels of global warming.	True
Jerry Brown in a series of tweets.	I cannot speak to that.	Trump made the dubious claim that readily available water is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean for environmental reasons and blamed California Gov.	Kate Poole the senior director of the Natural Resources Defense Councils NRDC water division said its hard to know where to begin in responding to Trumps tweets because theyre fundamentally wrong on many levels.	Yahoo News reached out to Scott McLean a deputy chief at the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection Cal Fire to get the agencys take on Trumps claims and whats actually happening in the efforts to stop the Mendocino Complex and other wildfires.	True
Another wrote 'Interesting how a leader that acts like a child is yelling at a child who acts like a leader'.	'Greta embodies the moral authority of the youth activist movement demanding that we act immediately to solve the climate crisis.	'For sounding the alarm about humanity's predatory relationship with the only home we have for bringing to a fragmented world a voice that transcends backgrounds and borders for showing us all what it might look like when a new generation leads Greta Thunberg is TIME's 2019 Person of the Year' the media franchise said Wednesday on its website.	Her angry accusations that world leaders are failing the younger generation have made headlines including her shouts of 'How dare you?'	Former Vice President Al Gore said Wednesday 'Brilliant decision for to choose as its Person of the Year.	True
Gov.	He then laid out the penalties for failing to meet federal requirements which include losing federal highway dollars.	Wheeler says California represents a disproportionate share of the backlog of such plans.	This letter is a threat of pure retaliation Newsom says.	I just think it's so ironic that the EPA is chastising California which has been so progressive in working towards cleaner air more than any other place in the country says Janet McCabe who was an EPA official during the Obama administration and now directs Indiana University's Environmental Resilience Institute.	False
As EPA renews its commitment to human health and clean air land and water our website needs to reflect the views of the leadership of the agency said JP Freire an associate administrator for public affairs.	In an op ed piece for the Guardian published on Saturday Sanders made an economic case for a focus on industries meant to ameliorate the effects of climate change rather than those which contribute to it.	The EPA is currently led by Scott Pruitt a former Oklahoma attorney general who has denied that carbon dioxide causes global warming.	Honored to join Indigenous leaders and native peoples as they fight for climate justice DiCaprio tweeted.	We want to eliminate confusion Freire said by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how were protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law.	True
Proponents of the theory humans are primarily responsible for rising global temperatures long claimed wildlife are harmed significantly by global warming and that unless mankind stops producing significant amounts of carbon dioxide emissions the worlds animals will not be able to thrive.	USA Today recently declared the loss of sea ice terrifying but global warming skeptics have long suggested these claims are overblown when put into perspective.	About 2 million square km of Arctic sea ice are estimated to have been lost since 1979.	This is the conclusion of researchers in the periodical Polar Biology the press release said.	It will without doubt have come to your Lordships knowledge that a considerable change of climate inexplicable at present to us must have taken place in the Circumpolar Regions by which the severity of the cold that has for centuries past enclosed the seas in the high northern latitudes in an impenetrable barrier of ice has been during the last two years greatly abated.	False
Many including Venice's mayor have blamed the disaster on global warming and warned that Italy a country prone to natural disasters must wake up to the risks posed by ever more volatile seasons.	The damage it's causing to monuments and the people is worrying she said wondering if climate change was to blame.	We need to be resilient and adapt.	But for the people who live here it's a real problem Litschauer said cradling her white Chihuahua Pablo.	A massive infrastructure project called MOSE has been under way since 2003 to protect the city but it has been plagued by cost overruns corruption scandals and delays.	True
The Sludge an investigative website reported last December that ORourkes Senate campaign failed to comply with a pledge not to knowingly accept contributions of more than 200 from the oil and gas industry.	Literally the future of the world depends on us.	Hes going to have to take a pretty strong stand.	This helped fuel accusations that ORourke is more of a fossil fuel ally than his lofty rhetoric might imply.	Some will criticise the Green New Deal for being too bold or being unmanageable.	True
Greta Thunberg saw her power in us and we in turn see our power in her March for Our Lives co founder Emma Gonzlez wrote of Thunberg for TIME adding that Greta is inspiring steadfast students and shaming apathetic adults.	RELATED Another Canadian Province Boots Liberals Out Of Power Over Carbon Taxes Environmentalists even some climate scientists are increasingly promoting Thunbergs actions in an effort to draw more young people into climate activism.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	I want you to act as if the house was on fire Thunberg said in a speech to European Parliament Tuesday.	Climate change is our reality and youth activists like Greta are doing everything within their power to work against it and demand a change Gonzlez wrote.	True
Kavanaugh addressed that in the hydrofluorocarbons case Under the Constitution congressional inaction does not license an agency to take matters into its own hands even to solve a pressing policy issue such as climate change.	In environmental cases judges often must sort out who has the legal standing to challenge regulations or push for protections.	William Buzbee a Georgetown Law professor who teaches constitutional and environmental law said Kavanaugh often rules that either Congress didn't delegate duties clearly enough to the EPA or that the agency wasn't carrying them out correctly in contrast with a history of judges giving wide latitude to agencies to try to solve problems.	In a speech last year at the American Enterprise Institute Kavanaugh praised the late Justice Antonin Scalia for applying a principle laid out by Chief Justice William Rehnquist to an EPA case.	In 2010 he wrote the majority opinion for a divided panel when trucking groups sued the EPA over California's regulations for engines such as those that power refrigeration systems on trucks.	False
And while historically nuclear power companies have built their plantsand dumped the wastein poor communities of color Booker believes it doesnt have to be that way He points to agreements struck between local and national governments in Canada and Europe as a model for a community process to deal with the waste.	But Booker argues that rebates and investments in poor communities could help solve that problem.	Among the 2020 presidential candidates Cory Booker stands out for his record of advocating for the people who bear the brunt of pollution and toxic waste.	As part of the wide ranging conversation about climate change he explainedhow he squares hissupport for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities.	Indeed critics of a carbon tax worry that it would be regressive hurting the poor more than the rich.	True
The United States of America has disproportionately contributed to the climate and ecological crises and to preventing a transition away from fossil fuels and Americans thus bear an extraordinary responsibility to solve the crises the text reads.	To read through the text one would think that global warming has been behind every catastrophe and uprising on the planet.	Humanity must restore a safe level of greenhouse gas concentrations and global average temperatures well below todays levels and back to pre industrial levels as quickly as possible it states.	While one can only have pity on local residents who must live under the heavy boot of the unhinged Berkeley City Council the rest of the nation can offer a collective sigh of relief that their power extends no further.	Despite the Councils dire warnings however it turns out that scientists themselves are far less certain that Berkeleys elite council members.	False
Words do not suffice in a tragedy like this.	And sometimes I wonder whether any amount of evidence could convince you to act.	This is a time for action action to care for our fellow citizens in the face of disaster and action to prevent a systemic worsening of the climate crisis by heeding the warning and doing what is right.	Senators I hope that you will take some time to reflect.	After all we have a surplus of evidence.	True
Solomon proposed that while feigning interest in global warming is politically expedient most people are unconvinced that it poses a real problemunlike the real pollution that is killing millions.	In an essay in Fridays Financial Post Solomon said that most signatories are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios.	The European Commissioner insisted that the key to addressing the problem of climate change and avoiding a point of no return is to be found in political will.	We are here today because our climate is under threat Mr. Vella said.	In the Popes written message to the meeting conveyed by the Vaticans Secretary of State Cardinal Pietro Parolin the pontiff expressed his concern for water conservation around the world as well as his fervent desire that the threat posed by climate change to our brothers and sisters in the most vulnerable countries will find prompt and effective responses.	True
The simple moral truth is that United States is by far the worlds largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it they added.	We cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment said the church leaders the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co Cathedral.	The church leaders slammed Daines for having the audacity to challenge the overwhelming scientific consensus that emissions from farms and burning fossil fuels are trapping heat in the atmosphere and causing the planet to warm.	inan op edpublished by the Missoulian Thursday for failing to understand climate changes role in a widespread fish kill in Yellowstone National Park last summer.	Daines who earned a bachelors degree in chemical engineering before entering politics received a paltry 3 percent lifetime score from the League of Conservation Voters which ranks lawmakers by how they vote on environmental legislation.	False
I was fighting back against corporate greed and this constant disregard for public health.	I wanted to come and help.	For me those young people I saw at that church that was me 15 years ago Tlaib said in a phone interview.	That movement work is critical to moving the needle.	As a Michigan state legislator Tlaib fought to reduceair and water pollution in Detroit and put environmental justice at the center of her campaign.	True
Like this story?	In both cases the company resolved to hire new management and overhaul its safety procedures.	Last year a hose malfunction sprayed a worker with a toxic solution sending him fleeing to an emergency decontamination shower.	Despite boasting that no company is more focused on nuclear fuel reliability Westinghouses South Carolina factory has seen its share of safety foul ups in the past.	Its a pretty big concern if you have an unknown quantity of material containing uranium leaching into the groundwaterlocal anti nuclear activist Tom Clements told The State.	True
Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club boasted that his organization and other activists are responsible for the closure of scores of dirty power plants.	Together we have worked with local grassroots activists and partners in the nations most vulnerable communities to secure the retirement of 259 dirty power plants and the promise of a brighter future putting at the center of our work a transition that leaves no one behind and that demands good paying family sustaining jobs for workers who depended on the fossil fuel economy Brune said.	Our movement is growing and our momentum is unstoppable.	EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt who was one of the first Attorneys General to sue the EPA over the Clean Power Plan is now undertaking the repeal of the Obama era clean energy power grab.	Instead of Obamas stifling energy regulations the Trump administration will promote policies thatfavorAmerican energy dominance.	True
He moved to lay blame on forest management policies during the visit instead even suggesting that raking would help stop the scourge of wildfires claims he appeared to repeat in his interview with the Post on Tuesday.	One of the problems that a lot of people like myself we have very high levels of intelligence but were not necessarily such believers said Trump speaking to the Posts Josh Dawsey and Philip Rucker.	Its based on modeling.	Without such action the planet faces a slew of devastating effects including a mass die off of coral reefsan increase in the severity of natural disasters such as wildfires and a global economic hit in the trillions of dollars according to a recent United Nations study.	... Its not data driven White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said at a news briefing Tuesday.	True
They can sense that we are making an impact.	None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president None What my journey into homelessness taught me	Something must have changed in the debate that so many young people are speaking up and so many young people are being targeted Thunberg told Yahoo News in response to the mockery her movement has received from leaders like Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin.	Now what does he want?	Theres a younger generation of conservatives in this state that arent as much in denial Republican Sen. Tom Lee who chairs the Committee on Infrastructure and Security told the Herald.	True
Claim 4 When I first met you you were running for president the Department of Energy was one of the federal agencies that you thought was maybe extraneous said Cannon.	Here are four checks on claims from the interview.	Claim 2 When I was governor of Texas we put more wind energy in than any other state in the nation said Perry.	He also threw his support behind a 7 billion electrical transmission project to send renewable energy to communities across the state.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	True
The Associated Press contributed to this report.	I will say this I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars.	I think something's happening.	The report detailed how Earth's weather health and ecosystems would be in better shape if the world's leaders could somehow limit future human caused warming.	But I don't know that it's man made.	True
Sanders has also drawn heat recently for his uncertain stance on reparations for the descendants of slaves and for quietly hiring a journalist who frequently attacked his 2020 opponents on Twitter as an adviser.	Once dubbedthe celebrities choice in offset providers NativeEnergy provides third party verification of how its offsets are used and boasts a high score as a benefit corporation a sort of LEED certification of for profit companies that pay employees decent wages and provide measurable value to society.	Carbon offsets represent a drop in the bucket on an issue that requires unprecedented systemic change to avert climate disaster.	In 2007 former Iowa Gov.	Though founded and run by a former utility lawyer the company as its name suggests transferred a majority stake in its ownership to a consortium of Native American tribes in 2005.	True
The conclusion?	Not necessarily.	And on that score paper bags fare worse.	Back in 2011 Britains Environment Agency conducted a life cycle assessment of various bag options looking at every step of the production process.	Climate change has become the biggest environmental issue of our time so its worth looking at things from an emissions standpoint.	True
Also left unanswered was how Pruitt came to rent a property tied to a lobbyist with business interests involving his agency.	Ill only pay for nights I use it but need it held vacant all other nights wrote Shaub who has become a frequent critic of what he sees as ethical lapses in the Trump administration.	Though federal regulations typically require federal officials to fly in coach the EPA chief has said he needed to sit in premium seats due to security concerns.	A memo signed by Kevin Minoli contends that Pruitts 50 a night rental payments constitute a fair market rate.	The unusual arrangement has attracted attention in Washington where Pruitt has been under increasing scrutiny for this frequent taxpayer funded travel which has included first class airline tickets.	True
What is doing this to us?	What can we do?	It also includes a Message for Adults Acid rain is a problem that affects us all The message to spread however is that we can all make a difference and help reduce the presence of acid rain.	Can you help us?	they all ask.	False
Now left unattended and gathering trash and human waste the Trump administration has let them reflect us at our worst.	This story was originally published bytheGuardian.	While the majority of the public will be respectful there will always be a few who take advantage of the opportunity to do lasting damage.	There are other consequences of a shutdown that are less visible but very consequential.	One of my jobs as ranger was to shovel out the fire hydrants every day so that if there was a fire in the hotel headquarters or housing wed be able to fight it.	False
Wheat source of bread and a foundation of life in much of the world will suffer from hotter temperatures and the country where the impact may be greatest also is among least well equipped to cope with a shortfall.	Both trends increase the chances that from time to time farmers will face catastrophic shortages of water.	California the biggest single source of America's fresh vegetables and nuts and the primary source of almonds for the entire world is a dramatic illustration of how subtle shifts in climate can have huge effects.	They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes most of them bad for growing corn.	Add it all up and one study estimates that corn yields in Iowa will fall substantially anywhere from 15 percent to an astounding 50 percent.	True
I believe man plays a part in it but not to the extent that others have been talking about that's what me and Donald Trump were talking about Eskridge said.	Florida Congresswoman Ileana Ros Lehtinen one of a handful of Republicans to publicly declare a belief in climate change said she has a strategy for getting fellow Republicans to think of solutionsI've found that the best way ... is to not dwell on the causes she said in an email.	That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels.	Tangier residents are happy with the attention but believe their problem is simpler.	Former Vice President Al Gore a prominent Democratic climate activist had given the same speech to islanders three days earlier.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The person in charge of air quality at the EPA William Wehrum was a lawyer and lobbyist for the fossil fuel industry before joining the EPA.	He admitted to the Times that the new method would allow the Trump administration to claim its other changes would cause fewer deaths.	Using an approach described by experts as not scientifically sound the Trump administration will soon change the way it evaluates the harm from coal plants spewing more pollution into the air according to a Monday New York Times report.	Obama's rules would have reduced the amount of dangerous particulate matter in the air by gradually moving energy production to cleaner forms of energy and shutting down older dirtier coal plants.	True
This fudge isnt perfect and it still doesnt solve the problem of the EPAs Obama era Endangerment Finding on carbon dioxide which ludicrously treats a harmless life enhancing trace gas as an existential threat.	But it also lays the groundwork for new presumably weaker regulations by asking for the public and industry to offer ideas for a replacement.	Hence Trumps election trail promise and executive orderin March this yearrequesting EPA chief Scott Pruitt to rescind the CPP.	Had it been implemented the CPP would have required U.S. power plants to lower their carbon emissions by 2030 to 32 percent below 2005 levels.	But some industry groups want a replacement to give utilities regulatory certainty and avoid possible lawsuits by environmental groups.	True
Yet BECCS plays a very real role in todays climate policy arena Pielke wrote by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and 90s.	University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. recentlypublished a paperon the problems with the UNs use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord.	California Democratic Gov.	Brown is right in one sense.	What Brownorderedis not just reducing emissions but instead implied sucking more greenhouse gas out of the air than human activities in his state put up and not just for electricity.	True
I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get that result.	Tim Donnellyis a former California State Assemblyman and Author currently on a book tour for his new bookPatriot Not Politician Win or Go Homeless.	Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward.	Instituting such a policy in California would affect the entire car industry globally due to the massive size of Californias car market.	The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California.	False
We are not here to guilt individuals that forgot to recycle a cup last week another young woman said.	We are here to hold cowardice sic politicians accountable who have caused this damage by turning their heads in fear.	Climate Justice.	It is not a coincidence.	The speaker listed the groups demands which will be presented at the U.N. summit A just and livable world where fossil fuels are left out of every decision around the world 100 percent renewable energy around the globe and holding polluters accountable for causing the climate crisis.	False
Hes calculating.	He often engages in legal battles against attorneys who sue energy companies over climate change.	A real solution proposed in Washington?	Other analysts shared similar sentiments.	Our society needs to turn dramatically and immediately towards the shared goals of environmental justice broad based prosperity and health.	True
The problem is the age old tragedy of the commons.	We should have higher taxes on the things that science says are probably bad for us than those that are probably good for us.	However those financial gains for Musk depend on higher energy taxes for the nations established manufacturing sectors especially in Midweststates.Breitbart described the economic impact of the climate agreement Unsurprisingly Musk is a strong advocate for growing carbon taxes on natural fuels.	For examplethe Los Angeles Times reported in 2015 thatMusks battery factory in Reno Nevada is reported to have enjoyed roughly 1.3 billion in state subsidies and his SolarCity companyhas gotten 1.5 billion from federal solar regulations.	The common good being consumed is atmospheric and oceanic carbon capacity which currently has a price of zero.	True
Montana Gov.	But I think they need more time to state the case.	Former Colorado Gov.	We can rebuild communities in rural America that have been devastated.	As he often does Sanders pledged to fight back againstthe fossil fuel industry noting that it continues to receive tax breaks and subsidies adding up to hundreds of billions of dollars globally.	False
Climate change is one of the most critical threats facing our nation and world and the secretary of state has a huge responsibility to make sure it is addressed by the global community she said.	This shuffling of the deck chairs will ensure that Washington continues to bring up the rear when it comes to international action to combat dangerous climate change.	Jake Schmidt the international program director at the Natural Resources Defense Council released the following statement Replacing the man from Big Oil with a first class climate denier simply goes from bad to worse.	Though not surprising this is extremely troubling.	Naomi Ages the climate director of Greenpeace USA was similarly perturbed.	False
Its findings aligned with those of the broader scientific community.	The president who hasrepeatedly cast doubt on the existence and effects of climate change has regularly cited significant winter storms to mock the concept of global warming.	Trump dismissedthe report saying he did not believe its findings and disputing that climate change is man made.	MOREin an early morning tweet on Sunday suggested global warming could be helpful as a massive snowstorm dropped several inches of snow and sent temperatures plunging across the Midwest and swaths of the Northeast United States.	Falling temperatures were expected to create icy surfaces further increasing the risk of travel.	True
But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	But that is where reality tempers the possibilities.	The overall direction if not the magnitude and rate of change laid out in the report is not just possible but essential both financially and environmentally.	Between climate change and reckless exploitation and pollution of rivers streams and lakes Tamil Nadu is staring at a bleak water future.	But first the state must overcome its addiction to coal writes Nityanand Jayaraman.	False
Jean Su energy director with the Center for Biological Diversitys Climate Law Institute said America is the number one historical contributor to the climate emergency wreaking havoc in burning California the flooded Southeast and the rest of the world.	Local action by itself is not likely to be enough.	The next president must repay this extraordinary climate debt by rapidly moving America to 100 clean energy and financing the decarbonization of the Global South Su said referring to the developing world.	John Kerry and Chuck Hagel president Barack Obamas secretaries of state and defense respectively in a Washington Post op ed called it a dark day for America.	Carl Pope vice chair of the group Americas Pledge said its members who are vowing to keep fighting the climate emergency produce more than half the countrys heat trapping emissions and represent about 70 of the US gross domestic product.	False
One area legal experts are split on is whether the 2007 decision that greenhouse gases are pollutants will be reconsidered.	He was a gettable fifth vote on decisions Bookbinder said.	Its not like every environmental case was decided 54 Doniger said.	He will be missed David Bookbinder of the Niskanen Center who was the Sierra Clubs chief climate counsel in the 2007 Massachusetts v. EPA decision that designated greenhouse gasses as pollution under the Clean Air Act.	In this case his lone opinion became the law Bookbinder said.	False
Egoism and self interest have turned creation a place of encounter and sharing into an arena of competition and conflict he said.	Too many of us act like tyrants with regard to creation he declared.	He also underscored the forthcoming United Nations Climate Action Summit as of particular importance while proposing that governments will have the responsibility there of showing the political will to take drastic measures to achieve as quickly as possible zero net greenhouse gas emissions.	Referring specifically to fires in the Amazon region Francis called on everyone to take up these opportunities to respond to the cry of the poor and of our earth!	Recent studies have shown that the language of climate change and global warming do not stir up an emotional reaction in people and so climate alarmists have issued an appeal for the use of more powerful expressions to provoke people to action.	True
But there are other less obvious risks.	As with so many climate impacts the report notes that those most at risk include children the elderly and low income communities.	It is affecting all of us no matter where we live.	Along the coasts more severe flooding threatens billions of dollars' worth of property and infrastructure which in turn could affect the economic stability of local governments businesses and the broader economy.	Global Change Research Program.	True
Those who point to discrepancies in the global warming narrative have also noted that many of the solutions offered by climate change advocates do very little to actually stop carbon emissions and turn back the clock.	The other a critical size or mass corresponds to the total carbon added to the oceans.	They also cite previous doomsday scenarios offered by alarmist scientists that didnt come to fruition including acid rain and global cooling.	One is a critical rate of change corresponding to the rate at which CO2 is added to the oceanatmosphere system.	A geophysics professor from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology says that hes run the numbers on humanity facing a mass extinction event and the numbers are not good.	False
As Naomi Klein argues even the rights fervent conspiracy theorists tend to understand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are for business as usual which has distributed its profits among elites of both parties.	In 2015 Greenpeace activists duped Happer into agreeing to write a report on the benefits of carbon dioxide for a fictional oil company.	William Happer most recently famous for complaining trump science advisor compares climate science 1793497686 that the demonization of carbon dioxide really differs little from the Nazi persecution of the Jews will lead a team charged with reviewing the science produced by government researchers no doubt hunting for references to the disastrous sea level rise crop failures and health impacts continued warming stands to create.	The irony in all of this is that Trump Happer and company may have a firmer grasp on the epic scope of these climate projections than many Democrats.	We cant know whether Happer genuinely believes the nonsense hes spouting or is just being paid well enough to sound like he does.	True
The report is seen as the main scientific guide for government policymakers on how to implement the 2015 Paris Agreement.	But the report said the efficacy of measures such as planting forests bioenergy use or capturing and storing CO2 were unproven at a large scale and carried some risks.	The report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it said Amjad Abdulla the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	Steps like reflecting incoming solar radiation back into space were not assessed because of the uncertainties about using such technology the report said.	The U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC met last week in Incheon South Korea to finalize the report prepared at the request of governments in 2015 when a global pact to tackle climate change was agreed.	True
Thosematters need to be resolved before the Legislative session ends at the end of the week.	I've done as much as I can and I'll continue to tryCourtney said.	Republicans fled the Senate some even claiming to the leave the state refusing to sign off on a bill that wouldlimit emissions and establishpollution permitsor allowances for each ton of carbon an industry plans to emit.	All we're saying is it shouldn't cost thousands of manufacturing jobs raise the gas tax by 20 cents a gallon to start out with and raise natural gas prices for people who heat their home by almost 50 percent.	Kate Brown also a Democratauthorized the state police to round up the 12 Republicans who walked out of the Statehousein protest of the bill Thursday and bring them back to the Senate floor for a vote but to no avail.	False
President Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal is a giant middle finger to elitists all around the world who want America to suffer simply to promote their global warming alarmism.	I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh not Paris Trump said.	For years liberals like Al Gore and Leonardo DiCaprio have lectured the American public on global warming yet these hypocrites have bigger carbon footprints than millions of poorer peoplecombined traveling around the world in private jets accompanied by a fleet of SUVs.	The White House official said Trump resented the corporate critics who ride in fossil fuel guzzling planes and SUVs then act holier than thou according to Axios.	Throughout much of the 2016 campaign then candidate Donald Trump railed against corporate and global elitists who want to dictate their liberal agenda onto the American public with no understanding of how such liberal policies would harm our economy and the Americanpeople.	True
It is a high risk project but also one which may have a very high reward at the end said Orheim.	But the 56 year old Zambian South African has a reputation for taking on the impossible after he re floated the giant Costa Concordia cruise ship that capsized in 2012 off the Tuscan island of Giglio killing 32 people one of the world's largest and most complex maritime salvage operations.	There are also questions on how the water from the iceberg will be channelled into the city's distribution system.	Another problem is that there is no guarantee that by the time the iceberg is hauled to Cape Town it will still be able to produce the promised volumes of water.	The idea sounds crazy admits maverick salvage expert Nick Sloane the brains behind the tow an iceberg scheme.	False
John Woodling of the Sacramento Regional Water Authority told the Sacramento Bee that Browns assertion of state power in this area will give it permanent unchecked control over local water management decisions.	Mandating conservation however is drastically different from incentivizing it.	Certainly Californians and everyone else ought to find ways to responsibly use natural resources such as water.	Governor Brown has pushed two contradictory agendas for months.	Even though there is no longer a drought state of emergency in their state Californians will be fined if they wash their automobiles with hoses not equipped with a shut off nozzle water lawns in a way that results in water run off or hose off sidewalks.	True
In response Peter Trelenberg the manager of environmental policy and planning at Exxon Mobil wrote to Mr. Banks Exxon Mobil supports the Paris agreement as an effective framework for addressing the risks of climate change.	Mr. Book the analyst noted that the risks of withdrawing from the Paris deal include not only diplomatic ill will but also the possibility of trade reprisals.	Colin Marshall the chief executive of Cloud Peak a major coal producer in Wyoming the nations largest coal mining state also wrote to Mr. Trump By remaining in the Paris agreement albeit with a much different pledge on emissions you can help shape a more rational international approach to climate policy.	What we say to the White House is that its clearly a terrible agreement for the American people said Tim Phillips the president of Americans for Prosperity.	Daniel M. Bodansky an expert in international environmental agreements at Arizona State University said that remaining in the Paris deal but weakening the United States commitment could still have the effect of generating some ill will but without the repercussions of trade sanctions.	True
This is our chance to decide what that road will look like.	We have a monumental task in front of us says co author Natalie Mahowald from Cornell University but it is not impossible.	However it does make clear the consequences of warming above that level more heat waves more severe rain and snow events higher sea levels damage to agriculture and displacement of millions of people.	But most governments now fear the cost of a global overhaul of the world's energy economy in the short time needed to meet the Paris climate goals.	Climate Report Warns Of Extreme Weather Displacement Of Millions Without Action Some of the world's top climate scientists have concluded that global warming is likely to reach dangerous levels unless new technologies are developed to remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere.	True
Corporate America is doing its part.	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	They referred to the irreversible agreement as a vital instrument for our planet societies and economies.	President Trump understands environmental protection is impossible without individual action and private innovation.	DanBackeris a veteran campaign counsel who has worked for more than 100 candidates PACs and political organizations including Great America PAC and the Committee to Defend the President.	False
Workers are often paid far less than the value they create.	Kudlow likened the deal to socialism and called for the American people to put socialism on trial and convict it.	Ocasio Cortez fired back on Twitter and said A living wage isn't a gift it's a right.	The deal proposes guaranteeing a job with a family sustaining wage adequate family and medical leave paid vacations and retirement security to all people of the United States.	It calls for the creation of millions of new high wage jobs to help wipe out poverty.	True
But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?	Climate change activists often claim carbon emissions from driving and flying are a significant cause of man made warming.	Even Forbes noted DiCaprio himself is one of those big polluters which diminishes his moral authority to lecture others on reducing their own carbon emissions in March 2016.	During a telethon fundraiser on Sept. 12 for Harvey and Irma relief celebrities like Beyonce linked manmade climate change to the hurricanes.	In 2011 she co wrote a USA Today op ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change.	True
For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Methane makes up 10 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for global warming.	Republican lawmakers worried the Obama era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more.	False
Provide two free years of higher education.	Reconstitute U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE.	Climate change and energy Rejoin the Paris Climate Treaty.	Work with businesses.	Immigration ICE and the border Allow a path to citizenship house committee spars with san antonio mayor.html for most undocumented immigrants.	False
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	And therein lies the problem.	Bonner R. Cohen Ph.D is a senior policy analyst with the Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow CFACT.	And what constitutes sustainable consumption and production is in the eyes of the beholding bureaucrat empowered either by the administrative regulatory state or by legislation adopted at the behest of deep pocketed special interests.	As the Trump White House continues its cleanup of the mess foreign and domestic left behind by the Obama administration it should toss out a little noticed document that entangles the U.S. in some of the worst schemes ever cooked up by U.N. bureaucrats and their cronies in the global environmental movement.	False
Scientists say governments businesses and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming fishing forestry mining or infrastructure development.	Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have.	Fortunately the evidence also shows that we know how to protect and partially restore our vital natural assets.	Among the list of the biggest threats to food and water security were pollution climate change and deforestation.	The report conducted by 550 experts from around the world said reduced biodiversity could affect people's quality of life.	True
As that is not likely to happen she said there is no way to know the full scope of the risks.	Petermann said there is a lack of independent research on the long term or even short term consequences of putting genetically engineered trees out into the environment and that the risks could be significant.	She said it was clear that the planet once had rivers and great amounts of water and possibly an atmosphere similar to ours but a global catastrophe had happened.	Petermann said another red flag is wildfires.	Anne Petermann executive director at the Global Justice Ecology Project said the tradition has been for the government to rubberstamp genetically engineered organisms but this would be the first time they are approving a genetically engineered forest tree.	False
Voxs David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points.	Washington Gov.	A forum format with one on one discussions with the candidates could better get at these distinctions forcing candidates to make the affirmative case for their own policies rather than sniping at those from other candidates.	Here is the format The audience will be composed of selected Democrats independents and stakeholders.	CNNs climate change forum has immense potential to illuminate real differences among the candidates and inform the public about the often weedy details of climate policy.	False
A fifth generation coal miner from Virginia has spoken out against President Donald Trump's rhetoric surrounding the coal mining industry saying the President is making false promises that are only going to line the pockets of coal executives.	They're a matter of life or death.	In a New York Times op ed video published Tuesday Nick Mullins a ninth generation Appalachian from Virginia said that if Trump wants to help the Appalachian mining communities that support him lowering emission standards is not the way to do it.	We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue he said.	On Tuesday the newly proposed Affordable Clean Energy Rule was announced which would allow states to set their own emission standards for coal fueled power plants.	True
That directive is likely to prompt watchdog groups to sue.	This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters its nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science gut our clean air protections and put polluter profits ahead of our health Sara Jordan a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters said in a statement.	It marks the latest assault on clean air rules putting poor people and communities of color particularly at risk.	People of color breathe in 1.2 times more particulate matter pollution and black people in particular are on average exposed to 1.54 times more particulate matter pollution than the general pollution.	The purpose is that if states make determinations that are somewhat less than the rigor of what might be expected EPA wont second guess it Stan Meiburg a former acting deputy EPA administrator who spent 39 years at the agency told HuffPost by phone.	True
In a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity it is necessary to recall the values of custody of creation the preferential option for the poor and the peace that is built in everyday life including with attention to the care of the common home she said.	The politically incorrect gift highlighted thecost effectivenessand ready availability of fossil fuels which were responsible for powering the industrial revolution throughout the developed world.	I hope we will see more leaders like these 40 Catholic institutions commit because while this decision makes smart financial sense acting collectively to deliver a better future for everybody is also our moral imperative she said.	Christiana Figueres the former UN climate tsar who helped negotiate the Paris climate accord lauded the move as a further sign we are on the way to achieving our collective mission.	The moral clarity of these 40 institutions is a source of deep joy said Toms Insua the director of the Movement.	False
'The eyes of future generations are on you and if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you.	We will not let you get away with this.'	Its donors include heiress Aileen Getty American philanthropist Trevor Neilson and filmmaker Rory Kennedy a member of the political Kennedy clan.	'Yet you have come to us young people for hope.	I shouldn't be up here.I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean.	True
Published with permission of The American Independent.	The new rule is really a dereliction of duty moral ethical but also legal Andres Restrepo a lawyer with the Sierra Club's Environmental Law Program told the Post.	That's the exact opposite of what Trump regularly claims.	Scientists are unclear as to the exact reasons air pollution has gotten worse under Trump but they say its very clear that his policies will make the situation worse.	Air pollution leads to the premature death of 100000 Americans every year the AP reports and Trumps own EPA shows not only worse air pollution but a significant increase in the two worst categories very unhealthy and hazardous conditions.	True
Tony Cox an industry consultant Trump tapped to lead the EPAs Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee argues that the EPAs agencys current standards for evaluating this question does not feature enough causal rigor.	Each of these impacts independently suggests that we are currently allowing too much air pollution and they also cry out for more research that attempts to assess the long term cumulative impact of pollutants that appear to induce cognitive problems throughout the life cycle.	Its true of course that you dont want to do a completely naive associational study and then leap to big policy conclusions from it.	Chan School of Public Health writes with researcher Gretchen Goldman in a new Science essay on the subject this loads the dice against demonstrating harms because randomized control trials are not possible or ethical when studying environmental hazards.	The other is that particulate emissions play a key role in the bureaucratic politics of climate change.	True
Andrew Fountain a geologist at Portland State added While the shrinkage in Montana is more severe than some other places in the US it is in line with trends that have been happening on a global scale.	Rising temperatures Montana is warming nearly twice as quickly as the global average and changes in precipitation patterns are eroding away glaciers in the state and elsewhere along the Rocky mountains.	Its inevitable that we will lose them all over the next few decades Farge said.	The disappearance of glaciers in Montana is part of a broader loss that will see all glaciers defined as moving bodies of snow and ice larger than 25 acres largely vanish from the lower 48 states of America by the mid point of the century according to Dr Daniel Farge lead USGS scientist.	Some have lost as much as 85 of their expanse over the past 50 years with Glacier national park site of 37 of the surveyed glaciers set to lose all of its eponymous ice formations within the next few decades.	True
Jay Inslee and many Democrats and environmentalists who want to fight man made global warming.	Voters from Washington to Florida will be able to partake in important energy policy decisions for their states.	Bill Ritter.	The political battle heated up that month when gas tax opponents threatened to recall Attorney General Xavier Becerra a Democrat for allegedly trying to mislead voters about the proposal.	Steyer pumped more than 20 million into the campaign but opponents accused Steyers group of using forged and fake signaturesto get the green energy mandate on Arizonas ballot.	False
Check out this chart The fines come from consent decrees a type of legal settlement where a party has to take a specific action but does not have to admit fault or liability.	Less enforcement doesnt mean there arent a whole lot of violations that are out there said Eric Schaeffer executive director of the Environmental Integrity Project who led the civil enforcement office at the EPA under Presidents Clinton and Bush in a call with reporters.	But one of EPAs most important jobs is to enforce civil penalties for companies that breach limits for hazardous chemicals like sulfur dioxide and hydrochloric acid.	Enforcement matters especially to the people who live and work next to plants that continue to release more pollution than the law allows.	And one new measure of Pruitts foot dragging thats just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately.	True
This story was originally published byHuffPostand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	Yet fears over rising gas prices proved more convincing to Evergreen State voters.	Scientists say such policies are necessary to make the kinds of emissions cuts required to avert the worst impacts of climate change.	The loss came as Coloradans voted down Proposition 112 a measure that would have put about 85 percent of non federal land in the Centennial State off limits to oil and gas drilling.	But Initiative 1631 took a different approach imposing the carbon price in the form of a fee.	True
Gov.	Donald Trump has singlehandedly been working to set back U.S. climate policy 50 years.	Pete Wilson.	The law requires businesses to buy credits based on their volume of greenhouse pollution.	More recently Brown helped found the United States Climate Alliance a group of state and local governments pledging to abide by the Paris climate agreement even after the federal government withdraws.	True
at world leaders at the U.N. General Assembly earlier this year accusing them of failing the younger generation.	The businessman denounced the choice as a 'marketing gimmick' and said the prize should have honored 'Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms' his father was also a finalist.	Greta said 'The biggest danger is not inaction the real danger is when politicians and CEOs are making it look like real action is happening when in fact almost nothing is being done apart from clever accounting and creative PR.'	In a speech the teenager also criticized governments for avoiding taking action to cut greenhouse gas emissions and 'not behaving as if we are in an emergency'.	The 16 year old Swedish face of climate activism made headlines after shouting 'How dare you?'	True
People are unhappy and that means they may make irrational decisions.	The research was published in the journal Nature Human Behaviour.	But air pollution also has a broader impact on people's social lives and behavior according Siqi Zheng the Samuel Tak Lee Associate Professor in MIT's Department of Urban Studies Pollution also has an emotional cost said Dr Zheng.	It suggests that people were four points unhappier than they would have been without polluted levels.	Researchers at MIT and the University of Beijing discovered a direct link between the amount of particulates in the air and happiness.	False
Many lines of evidence demonstrate that human activities especially emissions of greenhouse heat trapping gases are primarily responsible for recent observed climate changes.	And in June Energy Secretary Rick Perry echoed Pruitts comments saying no when asked byCNBC whether he believes carbon dioxide is the primary control knob for the temperature of the Earth and for climate.	In MarchEnvironmental Protection AgencyheadScott Pruitttold CNBC No I would not agreethat carbon dioxide is a primary contributor to the global warming that we see.	Most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in Perry said.I mean the fact is this shouldnt be a debate about Is the climate changing?	In a post to Twitter Gavin Schmidt a climate scientist and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies said that nothing in the report is surprising for people working in the field but that it may be shocking to those that think climate change is just a future problem.	False
And Interior Department climate scientist Joel Clement allegedthat he and dozens of other scientists had been arbitrarily reassigned.	The study had been launched at the request of two West Virginia agencies the state's Department of Environmental Protection and Bureau for Public Health.	'Stopping this study is a ploy to stop science in its tracks and keep the public in the dark about health risks as a favor to the mining industry pure and simple' said Democratic Representative Ral Grijalva of Arizona ranking member of the House Committee on Natural Resources in a statement.	An emphasis was placed on studying the 'effects from surface coal mining operations on air surface water groundwater and drinking water quality and on ecologic communities and soil that could potentially lead to human health concerns.'	Critics have railed against the Interior Department for moves seen as halting scientific growth.	True
Here's why it matters We now have to monitor this glacier carefully.	he said.	In other words he said If the Ross Ice Shelf destabilizes it should not lead to a collapse of East Antarctica.	He said one of the challenges they faced during the project was gathering all the available data since there have been many radar surveys but done by different institutions in different countries.	The study says that major glaciers flowing through the Transantarctic Mountains and across Victoria Land are found to be protected by broad stabilizing topographic ridges near their grounding lines that reflect the surrounding topographic relief.	False
We simply cannot protect our children and grandchildren from climate catastrophe if EPA lets this industry off scot free said David Doniger a climate and clean energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council.	Susan Dio chairman and president of BP America supported federal regulation of methane in an opinion piece in the Houston Chronicle earlier this year calling it the the best way to help further reduce and ultimately eliminate methane emissions industrywide.	Some large energy companies including BP favor federal regulation of methane saying the regulatory certainty is preferable to a patchwork of varying rules by states and legal challenges by environmentalists.	The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions a major factor in global warming.	If EPA moves forward with this reckless and sinister proposal we will see them in court.	True
When companies make these pledges to be sustainably sourced or use recycled content that's the problem that they're solving.	We believe in the dignity of life and part of that is having a place to live he said.	It's that natural infrastructure that we're trying to avoid being lost.	Instead PG promises to source its paper from forests that are well managed which in the company's view is a more responsible course of action than using recycled products.	Making paper sustainably doesn't necessarily mean using 100 recycled content said Stephen Donofrio director of the Ecosystem Marketplace initiative at the nonprofit Forest Trends.	False
As the New York Times points out however there is one crucial way that Wheeler differs from his departing boss.	A number of Pruitt policies are thought to be shoddily constructed and have faced significant legal challenges.	Here are three key facts to know about the person who will soon be overseeing the Environmental Protection Agency.	It appears that Wheeler is on track to do more of the same and his insider instincts and methodical nature could mean even more effective rollbacks.	During Wheelers testimony in a congressional hearing last fall he dodged a question about climate change I believe that man has an impact on the climate but its not completely understood what that impact is he said according to Inside Climate News.	False
At the time Pruitt was the Attorney General of Oklahoma and he and others sued the EPA to overturn the legislation.	Former President Barack Obama had put in place a rule in 2016 that was connected to a regulatory strategy which sought to reduce methane emissions.	Two judges concluded the administration record thus makes clear that industry groups had ample opportunity to comment on all four issues on which EPA granted reconsideration and indeed that in several instances the agency incorporated those comments directly into the final rule.	The courts ruling is yet another reminder now in the context of environmental protection that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the presidents desire to order immediate change Richard Lazarus environmental law professor at Harvard Law School said in an email as reported by the Post.	This includes a two year delay on a certain regulations aimed at minimizing chemical accidents.	True
Francisco noted that the plaintiffs are seeking to hold the U.S. government liable for the cumulative effects of carbon dioxide emissions from every source in the world over decades.	This is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights Olson said in court papers.	Lawyers for the young activists led by Julia Olson of a Eugene based group called Our Childrens Trust that brought the lawsuit have said their clients have suffered irreparable harm from the effects of a changing climate.	In the lawsuit 21 activists ages 11 to 22 said federal officials violated their rights to due process under the U.S. Constitution by failing to adequately address carbon pollution such as emissions from the burning of fossil fuels.	The loss for the administration means it now faces a high profile examination of U.S. climate change policy during the trial that was due to begin on Oct. 29 in Eugene Oregon but has since been postponed by the judge.	True
We are taking significant action to return power to the states and provide regulatory certainty to our nations farmers and businesses said Scott Pruitt administrator of the EPA.	Once again the Trump administration has agreed to do the bidding of the worst polluters in our country and once again its putting the health of American families and communities at risk said Michael Brune executive director of Sierra Club.	This sets in motion a welcome correction to a deeply problematic regulation that ignored the careful balance that Congress struck between federal and state water regulation and constitutional limits on federal authority said Hal Quinn NMA president and chief executive.	Signing his order the president said thousands of jobs were at risk because the EPA decided that navigable waters can mean nearly every puddle or every ditch on a farmers land or anyplace else that they decide.	Trump has called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation and a massive power grab.	True
Hovenweep is in all of our stories and to threaten the integrity of these structures jeopardizes everything weve carried forward as resilient people.	When this oil and gas leasing happens on or near sacred lands it risks de stabilizing the bedrock of the structures said Ahjani Yepa a member of Utah Din Bikyah a Navajo grass roots organization.	The Bureau of Land Management would benefit from more community outreach and long term planning to lease parcels on sensitive landscapes said Erika Pollard an associate director with the National Parks Conservation Association.	Still environmentalists and Native Americans invested in the land said such documents fail to address a larger trend of leasing increasingly more land on or near sensitive tribal landscapes.	You wouldnt like it if I went into your home your land and started digging.	False
As a Christian I have a responsibility to try my best to be as wealthy as possible James Wanliss an associate professor of physics at Presbyterian College in South Carolina and the author ofThe Green Dragon Is Global Warming a Religion?	The position paper called for protecting Gods creation and embracing the governments help in doing so.	On one side of that debate is a theological argument thats gained prominence in some corners of evangelical Christianity over the past decade.	Roy Moore hes part of that culture Michael Hansen executive director of the Birmingham based environmental group Gasp and a former candidate in the Democratic primary for Senate told HuffPost.	As a Christian thats a problem to me because well aside from the philosophy behind those systems its just again empirically been disastrous.	True
For property owners who let the government handle the clean up taxpayers will cover any of the costs of debris removal that insurance doesn't Lamoureux said.	Laney Wall who lost her home in the Sonoma County community of Fountaingrove asked why homeowners had to go through the expense trouble and wait of the clean up at all.	Homeowners shouted questions on matters ranging from their liability in the clean up to the extent that contractors would be scraping bare building sites.	State agencies would handle the same task in five other burned counties.	Many survivors at Monday's forum and in fire zones where people are returning say they are confused about what authorities will allow them to do at their blackened properties before the massive waste removal.	False
And while theres an element of truth to that it misses the big picture.	More nuanced pundits and politicians acknowledge that the science is real but argue that even if it is accurate the consequences might not be so bad or that action would simply be too costly.	Take Trumps nominee to head the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt.	As Brad Plumer wrote last year during Pruitts tenure as Oklahoma attorney general he joined or led state lawsuits to block virtually every major federal regulation around climate and air pollution that Obamas EPA has put forward and professed to believe that the science around climate change was unsettled.	This is the consensus that the vast majority of the Republican Party from donors to politicians to intellectuals to voters has arrived at.	False
The mechanism Robert Francis is referring to is a democracy.	How does a man who under normal circumstances would be working as a barista in the local coffee shop dole out knowledge of experience on World War II to a Democrat party who eagerly laps it up?	But he doesnt care because in his mind its real.	How else to explain last months comments that environmental activists are just like those who were on the beaches in Normandy.	When you think about leadership those who preceded us those who were on the beaches in Normandy those who faced an existential threat to Western democracy and our way of life they showed us the way he said referencing a plan to fight climate change.	False
Still to be determined whether it was persuasive or consequential.	On the other side President Trump.	But Gentolini and other world leaders weren't just waiting for internal reflection.	He came here to learn.	Climate change and its impacts have been observed by scientists working in multiple fields and the overwhelming scientific consensus is that human activity is the primary cause.	True
Its intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that youre talking about.	Deke Arndt chief of the climate monitoring branch at NOAAs National Centers for Environmental Information described the report as diagnostic when asked if anyone from the White House had weighed in on itor questioned its findings.	Photo GettyEyeEm The evidence behind global climate change continues to mount and scientists keep speaking out.	Now they hope the world will listen.	Were scientists and were providing objective information Jessica Blunden a climate scientist at NOAAs National Climatic Data Center in Asheville N.C. told Yahoo News.	True
Mustafa Ali the former head of the EPA environmental justice office noted that the idea of scoring environmental justice impacts is something advocates have pushed for years.	Harris is not the only presidential candidate who has come out with a plan focused on environmental justice.Jay Inslee released the fifth plank of his climate change package on Monday that refocuses the White House Council of Environmental Quality as a new clearinghouse for environmental justice and has its own scoring mechanism for impacts.	People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices.	It does begin to answer one of the key questions around the Green New Deal debate which is how to include low income and communities of colorthe frontline voices facing the most dire effects of climate changein the legislative process.	We cannot accept a status quo where children of color are drinking toxic water in Flint or breathing toxic air in Louisianas Cancer AlleyHarris said in a statement.	True
Scott Pruitt the head of the Environmental Protection Agency has said he would not agree that carbon from human activity is the primary cause of global warming while in 2014 Trump referred to it as a hoax.	Does he believe human activity contributes to climate change?	There was a chorus of condemnation from world leaders former president Barack Obama and Trumps defeated election opponent Hillary Clinton who branded it a historic mistake.	Now whats the negotiating process?	implying that Trumps views on the causes of climate change were irrelevant to the Paris decision.	True
Courtneys admission is not rewarding Senate Republicans for bad behavior.	Kate Brown nonetheless last week sent state police to find the lawmakers and instituted a 500 per day fine per person for each day they werent present at a legislative session.	Democratic Gov.	Theres been incredible work going into that bill Courtney said.	On Tuesday some of the Republicans in hiding were not sure what to make of Courtneys statement about the votes.	True
This is the war we are facing.	Yet amid rising international pressure the 63 year old former army captain reportedly signed an executive order deploying the military to help reduce the wildfires which he previously blamed on NGOs who were seeking to undermine his administration.	It is an international crisis.	Our house is burning.	On the question of burning in the Amazon which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money what is the intention?	True
The language also points to broader reform efforts that occurred after the Gulf spill including thedivision of the Minerals Management Service the scandal plagued agency faced with the conflicting tasks of issuing leases and policing offshore drilling operations into three new agencies.	Like the rollback of the Production Safety Systems Rule this effort is all about helping industry.	Donald Boesch a professor of marine science at the University of Maryland who served on the bipartisan commission that investigated the causes of the Deepwater Horizon blowout said easing the safety rules is both premature and ill considered.	The Interior Department led by Secretary Ryan Zinke noted in the lengthy proposal that while offshore oil and gas production will never be totally risk free the agency has made and is continuing to make substantial reforms to improve the safety and reduce the possible adverse environmental impacts of those activities.	He also expressed concern about merging the two agencies but said the administration has in effect already done that by putting the safety bureau in the hands of Angelle a big proponent of offshore fossil fuel development.	True
It's no use pointing the finger at what's wrong without bringing alternatives to people he said.	Mr Bolsonaro said the French leader should apologise for insulting him personally by calling him a liar.	Firstly he called me a liar.	He wrote Do not humiliate the guy ha ha.	Greenpeace France described the G7's response to the crisis as inadequate given the urgency and magnitude of this environmental disaster.	False
And while the fires have been burning for weeks the international outcry grew this week as photographs spread on social media.	A military leader for example said that part of its mission involved creating a positive perception of the country.	Protecting the rain forest is our duty he said.	That was quite a change in tune for a president who had previously described environmental protections as an impediment for economic growth and had blamed non governmental organizations of starting the fires.	As attention focused on the fires burning in the Amazon it became clear that Europeans have taken the role as the global leaders in the fight against climate change notes the New York Times.	True
And current emissions mitigation policies especially related to the advocacy for renewables are often costly ineffective and perhaps even harmful to the environment.	In other words nobody is denying that climate changes nobody is denying that the planet has warmed by 0.8 degrees C in the last 150 yearswhile only a handfuldeny that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases has the power to influence temperatures.	Detecting a clear anthropogenic forcing signal amidst the noise of unforced natural variability may therefore be difficult.	Greenhouse Effect Not the Main Driver of Climate Together with these 400 new papers that makes 900 science papers in the last two years casting doubt on global warming.	What they are saying in their different ways is that global warming as in the big scare story that the planet is heating up at a catastrophic unprecedented rate because of man made CO2 emissions is bunk or that the methods being used to combat the problem are bunk.	False
The lawsuit announced by Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Kilmartin was the first by a state seeking to hold oil companies responsible for costs associated with climate change and followed similar cases by several local governments nationally.	The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages as well as orders requiring the companies to pay abatement costs and to disgorge profits.	Kilmartin is seeking to force the companies to pay for damages associated with climate change citing the costs taxpayers were incurring to repair roads and bridges and rebuild coastal structures.	The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products.	The lawsuit filed in Providence County Superior Court named as defendants Exxon BP Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Chevron Corp among other companies.	True
On a broader note Im confused.	Alexandria Ocasio Cortez has found something else to blame on the supposed climate crisis.	If a pipe bursts in your house thats not the fault of climate change.	Then there was the explosion at an oil refinery which despite not being a weather event at all nor being caused by one was somehow the fault of climate change.	In reality New York Citys subway system is a dumpster fire of mismanagement.	True
The E.P.A.	In this case the proposed methodology would assume there is little or no health benefit to making the air any cleaner than what the law requires.	WASHINGTON The Environmental Protection Agency plans to change the way it calculates the health risks of air pollution a shift that would make it easier to roll back a key climate change rule because it would result in far fewer predicted deaths from pollution according to five people with knowledge of the agencys plans.	The proposed shift is the latest example of the Trump administration downgrading the estimates of environmental harm from pollution in regulations.	had originally forecast that eliminating the Obama era rule the Clean Power Plan and replacing it with a new measure would have resulted in an additional 1400 premature deaths per year.	False
Thats the environmentalinjustice and racism that were dealing with and my plan would equip Americans with the tools tofight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what isright now a tremendous injustice he said.	We know that this climate crisis is going to affect all Americans and all folks around the world but we also know that its going to hit some people particularly hard people that are the first people to get affected he said.	He said his climate plan calls for new civil rights legislation to address environmental injustice including making sure people could file lawsuits against polluters.	Theyre the ones who can least afford to deal with the climate crisis he said during the CNN town hall.	We need to invest in these communities and their ability to withstand storms and other natural disasters and their ability to have something as simple as clean water or breathe clean air he said.	True
Pat McCrory R signed a bill that dramatically watered down legislation forcing Duke to clean up its coal ash pits without requiring the company to excavate the waste or provide clean water to residents near the pond.	Children are particularly at risk of learning disabilities birth defects asthma and cancer with 1.54 million living near such storage sites according to EPA data cited by the Sierra Club.	In 2014 Duke Energy one of the countrys biggest power companies spilled nearly 39000 tons of coal ash into the Dan River causing one of North Carolinas biggest environmental disasters in its history.	Yet two years later the company is still battling environmentalists and regulators in the state as the utility seeks to pass the cleanup costs onto ratepayers in the form of a price hike.	Thomas Adams executive director of the American Coal Ash Association said he hopes the next part of the EPAs announcement will include changing a rule that mandates companies to go through a risk evaluation when stockpiling more than 12400 tons of coal ash for anything other than road projects.	True
His concerns about potential waves of lawsuits are not unfounded.	Some analyst groups worry activist shareholders use a largely unregulated industry to hoodwink U.S. companies into accepting proposals designed to tackle climate change that carry little long term benefits.RELATEDA Federal Judge Torches Two Lawsuits Trying To Blame Oil Companies For Climate Change So called proxy advisory firms craft disclosure requirements that force companies to show they are taking efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions.	Environmentalists have convinced several American cities to sue Exxon Chevron and other energy companies to force them to pay for supposedly making disasters worse.	The lack of transparency and competition in the proxy advisory firm industry gives a small number of businesses significant influence over how corporations deal with environmental issues.	Judges have already dismissed several lawsuits but the fear of future litigation is not lost on Shell and others.	False
No harm no foul.	The rollbacks an international signal that were not taking carbon capture and sequestration and reducing impacts from coal seriously said Jay Duffy an associate attorney at the Clean Air Task Force.	Groups can sue once the proposal is finalized as a rule.	Even as nations are gathering in Poland this week to discuss how to implement the Paris climate agreement the US delegation plans to host a panel touting the virtues of fossil fuels the biggest sources of greenhouse gas emissions that drive climate change.	This would have likely required new coal plants to install carbon capture technologies to limit some of their emissions.	False
And I think for younger people looking at this are more like how are we saying lets take it easy when 3000 Americans died last year how are we saying lets take it easy when the end person died from our cruel and unjust criminal justice system?	Yet IPCC report authorsframedthis as a problem of political will not economics and technology.	The New Deal.	Indeed Ocasio Cortez saidglobal warming is her generations World War II.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True
Unfortunately there is a loophole to that status he adds.	If these landowners decide they want to clear their land they can.	Mr Castillo says money is key The first step to protecting the palms will be to allocate the proper amount to the environmental sector.	But according to Mr Bernal the palms in the Cocora Valley are at risk.	Mr Bernal and his fellow scientists have for years been urging the government to buy up the land a move they estimate would cost 10m 7.7m but so far no action has been taken.	False
This story was originally published byGristand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	A lot of the answers are coming from the communities he said.	We do better when we have a project he said of his proposal at the Seattle event.	As well as the fact that we as a country need a project and climate change is as good a one as well ever have.	The presidential candidate was running more than 45 minutes late and was just beginning to lose his audienceIm starting not to love Pete so much someone remarkedwhen he took the stage.	True
2 job Wheeler said he believed that man has an impact on the climate but whats not completely understood is what the impact is.	Sen. Dan Sullivan R Alaska even prompted Wheeler with a question about his nearly two decades working for Bob Murray the influential and bombastic baron who runs the nations largest privately owned coal company.	Wheelers climate denial received some backup at Wednesdays hearing.	He even mixed up two of the most important climate science reports to come out in the last three months admitting he hadnt fully read the report co authored by researchers at his own agency.	Wheeler blamed the shutdown for the delay in releasing a plan to deal with toxic perfluorinated substances in drinking water.	True
The Chronicle rubbished the threat quoting a media law expert who stated that the companys email screw up was its own fault and not the newspapers.	According to a 16 count indictment Crystal Geyser discharged the toxic waste into a pond that staff dubbed the arsenic pond and then worked with two waste disposal firms to illegally transport the arsenic to a plant without a license to treat it.	With pro corporate protesters likely to raise some eyebrows he outlined a more radical approach sue locals in the area for past damages to the local water system to bring them to the table.	Option one involved hiring a PR firm to manufacture fake grassroots support for the facility and change the conversation.	A lawyer representing Crystal Geyser called the newspaper and threatened legal action for running the story.	True
Said Tyler Ray director of policy and advocacy for theAmerican Hiking Society Permitting e bike use on trails that have been thoughtfully and specifically designated as non motorized raises questions of safety and trail sustainability that must be considered.	But this announcement disregards well established policies for how visitors can enjoyably and safely experience the backcountry in national parks said Kristen Brengel senior vice president at the National Parks Conservation Association.	The change has drawn criticism by park advocates and some trail enthusiasts who say the administration did not do enough to seek public input on a policy that could damagethe park experience for many.	Park Service officials notethe policy is modeled after a number of states that already allow expanded use of electric bikes.	The motor may not be used to propel an e bike without the rider also pedaling except in locations open to public motor vehicle traffic under the policy.	False
The environmental Left rushed to publicize the incident as an I told you so moment but activists gloating reveals either their cynical dishonesty or their ignorance about how modern pipelines work.	Such biased narratives have bedeviled the Dakota Access Pipeline from the beginning.	The spill occurred in an Energy Transfer Partners facility specifically equipped to catch spills.	And a Clean Technica reporter claimed the incident drives home an essential truth about all the systems mankind has devised to transport oil from place to placeaddingThey all leak.	Writing in the Guardian opinionist Julian Brave NoiseCat said that the leak demonstrates the risk of technological and human failure inherent in crude oil pipelines adding that indigenous communities ranchers and workers are forced to live under the constant threat of petroleum poisoning.	False
Its time that we own our mistakes and get real about our shortcomings.	Or we could let implicit bias and systemic racism undercut any chance we have at a sustainable future.	When they dont have a seat at the table how can the movement be ready to systematically tackle issues that affect them uniquely?	The time has come for radical thinking for inclusive problem solving for crowd sourced innovation.	Its urgent that we bring more voices into the conversation.	True
Civic leaders mayors governors CEOs investors and the majority of the business community will take up this challenge Gore said.	But make no mistake if President Trump wont lead the American people will.	Gore who has made two documentaries advocating climate change action said in a statement Removing the United States from the Paris Agreement is a reckless and indefensible action.	Former Vice President Al Gore blasted the decision of President Donald Trump to remove the U.S. from the Paris Climate Agreement on Thursday calling it reckless and indefensible.	Participating in the deal the president argued puts us at a permanent disadvantage.	False
Democrats and environmentalists claimed the storm was made worse by man made global warming.	Democrats and environmentalists claimed the storm was made worse by man made global warming.	Florence dumped 11 trillion gallons of rain over the Carolinas causing devastating floods and taking more than 50 lives.	Florence dumped 11 trillion gallons of rain over the Carolinas causing devastating floods and taking more than 50 lives.	RELATED Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado However not all scientists agreed.	True
She submitted the United Nations IPCC Special Report on Global Warming as her written testimony writing I am submitting this report as my testimony because I dont want you to listen to me I want you to listen to the scientists.	he added Our planet is in crisisbut we arent powerless to combat it Sen. Cory Booker D NJ declared.	To the millions of young people and allies worldwide who are striking today to demand climate justice I stand with you.	The youth led and the solidarity strikes from groups like show that our country is ready to fight for the big structural change well need to tackle the climate crisis Sen. Elizabeth Warren D MA tweeted Young people have already demonstrated they can take on powerful fossil fuel companies and force politicians to answer their call to action Sen. Bernie Sanders I VT wrote.	There is nothing more powerful than our nations youth marching together demanding action be taken to protect our planet and their future Sen. Kamala Harris D CA wrote.	True
Economic costs associated with such disasters are mounting.	We face a direct existential threat.	I am appealing for leadership from politicians from businesses and scientists and from the public everywhere U.N. Secretary General Antnio Guterres said when he announced the summit.	China and the U.S. are the top greenhouse gas emitters in the world and their cooperation was the crucial foundation for the Paris Agreement.	Currently global emissions are on track to cause potentially catastrophic climate change in the coming decades.	True
All three are equally important to human wellbeing.	This is fuelling climate change and compromising our attempts to feed a growing world population the authors will say.	Brexit could give the UK greater flexibility on how to spend public money on farming enabling much more leeway to reward farmers for capturing carbon in the earth.	Soil expert Prof Jane Rickson from Cranfield University UK added The thin layer of soil covering the Earth's surface represents the difference between survival and extinction for most terrestrial life.	The body which is meeting this week aims to get all the worlds governments singing from the same sheet about the need to protect natural systems.	True
In a word there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earths goods not only of present generations but also of those yet to come he said.	We are faced not with two separate crises one environmental and the other social but rather with one complex crisis which is both social and environmental he said.	The pope went on to enumerate his vision of the problem while also recognizing that many poor people derive their livelihood from activities that threaten the environment.	He also denounced a failure to recycle paper and other resources while calling climate change a global problem with grave implications and one of the principal challenges facing humanity in our day.	The pontiff tied together social and ecological problems insisting that the two are intimately intertwined.	True
Some of the more dire predictions came from Paul Ehrlich a biologist who famously urged population control to mitigate the impacts of humans on the environment.	The article detailed aU.N.	That claim came from an international team of specialists cited by The New York Times in 1978.	ANDY PUZDER HERE'S WHY DEMS WANT TO GENERATE CLIMATE PANIC AS THEY IGNORE WAYS TO REDUCE CARBON EMISSIONS Those predictions were made around the time former President Richard Nixon created the Environmental Protection Agency.	The dire predictions often repeated inthe media warned of a variety of impending disasters famine drought an ice age and even disappearing nations if the world failed to act on climate change.	True
Occasionally there needs to be an opportunity based on a unique circumstance to ensure that my family are safe it's generally as simple as that.	The duke said that what is important is what we do to balance out negative effects.	He also said he paid to carbon offset their trip to his French home.	During his opening speech the duke said no one is perfect in terms of his impact on the environment.	The Duke of Sussex has defended his use of private jets saying he occasionally needs to ensure his family is safe.	True
Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oils exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012 which led to a series of problems mistakes and violations of environmental laws.	Its drilling contractor pleaded guilty to eight felony offenses relating to environmental pollution and safety and agreed to pay 12.2 million in fines.	The area is remote and foreboding the complaint said.	The US Coast Guard cited the Noble Discoverer for numerous deficiencies after the drilling season and the EPA determined Shell had violated the Clean Air Act during its drilling efforts and fined the company 1.1 million.	The Center for Biological Diversity Greenpeace and REDOIL a coalition of Alaska native groups sued the Trump administration on May 3 citing the risk of offshore oil and gas exploration development to local communities and wildlife.	True
The harm thats done in taking legislative authority away from the committees is far too great she said.	Maintaining legislative power for existing committees with members who might have taken contributions from oil gas and coal donors could pose some risk but would be worth it said Rep.Pramila Jayapal D Wash. the other Progressive Caucus co chair.	Young people and Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma.	I wouldnt even call it compromises.	But proponents tweaked language in the proposal this week to mandate the select committee to lay out a vision for a Green New Deal while maintaining existing committees authority over the lawmaking process.	True
The lack of specifics could present opportunities and liabilities for presidential candidates.	But on the other it could put candidates in a difficult position when pressed on the costs and impact on certain jobs and industries.	A third principle a just transition for fossil fuel workers so that no one is left behind and so we show respect and gratitude for all the work they've done to power economy is the decades past.	Our first step is to define the problem and define the scope of the solution Ocasio Cortez told reporters during a Thursday afternoon press conference for her newly introduced proposal which was quickly backed by Democratic presidential hopefuls Senators Kirsten Gillibrand Kamala Harris Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker.	The debate over Medicare for All has already shown the kinds of risks and rewards candidates face.	True
A tragedy is unfolding in Maharashtra and a money spinning racket for Tanker owners.	The public no tests no international treaties that will stop it.	More studies are needed.	Or whichever country leads the way.	The problem is when people think a resource is free and so plentiful that it can never run out that you get situations where it does run out.	False
In 2012 a heat kink caused a 32 car long freight train to derail and fly off an overpass a similar derailment happened in 2017.	In cities that means millions of units including those on cars and buses and trains constantly pushing out heat into the atmosphere.	But it goes further than just an ever hotter summer season the emissions from air conditioners and their refrigerants is contributing to climate change.	Asphalt warps and melts.	Here's what that sort of heat can do.	False
Jerry Brown.	Use the SEC to scrutinize banks and investors for climate risks Most attention for climate change goes to the energy sector but banks and investors have an important role too.	CNN gathered input from advocacy groups former government officials and academics.	He said without much evidence that it was a demeaning failure for American workers who would be expected to do more than those in other countries.	Pretty much everyone who agrees that climate change is a problem agrees that Congress will ultimately have to address it in a big way.	True
has been asked to join her storyteller parents in telling a story of her own for a crowd.	This issue tends to play incredibly well in the mainstream media as they use climate change as the universal bad guy so I'm sure there were plenty of parents who actually thought this episode was a good idea.	Can't kids just learn without an anti scientific social agenda?	However she's more into data than storytelling so the kids take a trip to a glacier allowing her to tell the story of you guessed it climate change which is met with a standing ovation by the audience.	With the class camping in the woods Miss Frizzle and the other students help him come up with clean energy alternatives wind water etc so they won't be eaten.	True
Perhaps not surprisingly his staff seems to share these views.	This climate denier for example	Scientists have since reached an overwhelming consensus The planet is getting warmer and humans are to blame.	But this hasn't stopped climate deniers from citing the old stories as evidence that contemporary news reports about climate change shouldn't be believed.	The other from 2007 discussed how to survive global warming.	True
The estate was at high risk for flooding during heavy rains and storms with water already pooling on the premises in addition to nearby bridges and roads in Palm Beach.	Last summer the Guardian investigated Trumps coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels.	But the truth is we are relatively early in our scientific understanding of how the great ice sheets will respond to warming.	What they found was Mar a Lago was already in serious trouble.	President Donald Trump has called climate change a hoax and a very expensive tax on American businesses that make the US less competitive.	True
LaFleur for example called on FERC to factor in estimates like the controversial social cost of carbon for a cost benefit analysis.	These are decisions that impact the presidents ability to make foreign policy decisions Brouillette told TheDCNF.	Republican FERC commissioners Neil Chatterjee the chairman and Bernard McNamee worked with Democrat Cheryl LaFleur to hash out an agreement to get her support.	Brouillette also stressed the geopolitical implications of LNG exports and the role energy could play in President Donald Trumps foreign policy.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True
Thats not how it works.	The American Meteorological Society released a statement that read in part It is clear from extensive scientific evidence that the dominant cause of the rapid change in climate of the past half century is human induced increases in the amount of atmospheric greenhouse gases including carbon dioxide CO chlorofluorocarbons methane and nitrous oxide.	Bush in the early 90s.	Mr. Trump believes that because he doesnt get close enough to the dossiers to fully understand them.	It seems our attempt failed.	True
Rep. Adam Kinzinger R IL reiterated that point to Greta Thunberg and the other climate kids who testified before theHouse Committee on Foreign Affairs andSelect Committee on the Climate Crisis on Wednesday.	We also pay attention to the climate and we are also thinking deeply interacting taking action and so many people are very conscientious on this issue she added.	Several climate change activists in D.C. decried the U.S. for its role in contributing to climate change despite the fact that the U.S. has made great strides in reducing its carbon output seeing the largest decline in CO2 emissions in the world for 9th time this century in 2017.	Today the Chinese account for 30 percent of global emissions.	However there was a remarkable lack of participation from individuals in China the planets worst greenhouse gas emitter minus a protest in Hong Kong.	True
But her parents didnt.	We are being robbed and pillaged by industry Landrum said her voice rising to a preachers righteous crescendo.	A few job promises and they get to pollute as much as they want.	Amid the gleaming towers of automotive giants whose vehicles now spew the majority of Americas climate changing gases the demonstrators called for a future in which the health of the planet and its people guides industrial planning andin which the Motor City sheds its association with combustion engines.	Then you know what we get?	True
When you think about what that rule meant it was about picking winners and losers.	And Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club said Trump and Pruitt are launching one of the most egregious attacks on public health and climate safety.	Regulatory power should not be used by any regulatory body to pick winners and losers he said at the event.	Under the interpretation proposed in this notice the CPP exceeds the EPA's statutory authority and would be repealed the proposal reads.	The past administration was using every bit of power and authority to use the EPA to pick winners and losers and how we generate electricity in this country.	True
Currys ultimate conclusion Some of the worst case scenarios strain credulity.	The odd proclamation prompted meteorologist Ryan Maue to step in and offer the young Democrat a lesson in what weather is.	The other side of her thinks were foolish for believing her claim that climate change will destroy the world in 12 years.	No one wants to hear this or actually spend time understanding things Curry said.	In a second tweet Maue pointed out that AOC doesnt seem to know the difference between weather and climate and offered her an easy analogy so that she understood for the future.	True
Robert Johnson February 21 2019 When you continue to deny climate science you cant make the claim that you are a driver of science policy.	That is hypocrisy.	No more gaslighting.	President Donald Trumps pick to head the committee William Happer once compared the demonization of CO2 to how Jews were characterized in Nazi Germany.	Dawn Amos meh my dogs are the boss of me February 21 2019 You can't believe science in a selective manner and claim to be pro science.	True
For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Evidence since enactment of the Energy Independence and Security Act suggests an increase in acreage planted with soybeans and corn with strong indications from observed changes in land use that some of this increase is a consequence of increased biofuel production read a portion of the 159 page report.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The law was passed with the intention of aiding in climate change efforts.	Essentially the study found that biofuel mandates are boosting production of corn and soybeans.	True
We know that certain oil and gas corporations have been fighting public policy on this issue have been hiding their own science and research at the expense of our climate and human life he said.	Where does he get off thinking he's going to stop human progress?	He's no Einstein he's no Carnegie.	O'Rourke also said that he wanted people in the fossil fuel industry to act as partners in reaching his goal.	Watters asked.	False
And the big thing that the secretary hears over and over again is that people just don't have access to land.	Fosberg's criticism is similar to what environmental groups said following the secretarial order last week.	Hunters anglers and target shooters are the best conservationists who contribute so much through the Pittman Robertson and Dingell Johnson Acts said Richard Childress NRA vice president.	And he's skeptical of just how far the secretarial order will go.	Washington CNN Toy gun grasped firmly in his hand and a grin plastered wide across his face while he played Big Buck Hunter Pro Ryan Zinke could have been a kid at an arcade.	False
I could have put my hat in the ring for the administrator he said in June.	Wheeler with his knowledge of the rule making process will help manage such reversals while avoiding headlines over 1500 fountain pens Trump Hotel mattresses or Chick fil A franchises.	Now that he is in the role he said he didnt covet he will be tasked with completing the job of dismantling environmental and climate regulations.	For opponents of the president the prospect is a daunting one.	There is no reason to believe that Wheeler will fix the problems left behind and put childrens health ahead of his industry friends.	True
Thats why I object to the Democrats as much as to the Republicans.	The only effective way of addressing climate change is to make the price of fossil fuels include their cost to society said Hansen.	Hansen claims by imposing the tax and then redistributing the money to consumers the increased price of gasoline would be offset and Americans would be happy having received thousands of extra dollars from the government.	In a recent interview with the Scientific American noted climate alarmist James Hansen which the article refers to as the father of climate change awareness said the plan promoted by Republicans is similar to one he developed in 2008 and would be popular with the American people.	Opponents say energy costs will increase not only because of the tax but also because energy companies will raise prices across the board knowing that all consumers have more money to spend thanks to carbon tax dividends.	False
The report comes at the same time the president has sent out misleading tweets aboutthe causes and solutions of Californias wildfires and as Donald Trumps Interior head Ryan Zinke has blamed fires on environmentalists denied climate change science and called for more logging.	The longer Ryan Zinke continues to ignore these facts the greater the risks to homes and families.	In itthe service writes Of particular concern are longer fire seasons and the rising size and severity of wildfires along with the growing risk to lives homes natural resources and other values.	Mother Jonesasked an expert to decipher this nonsense and you can read his analysis here.	Additionally in his op ed the Secretary directly addressed longer hotter drier seasons in the opening paragraphs.Its true that Zinke changed his tuneafter his earlier comments Zinke told reportersThursday that climate change has played a role in the fires and that global temperatures are rising.	False
This is something Ive taken on in California I have a history of working on this issue she added.	But most importantly methane from natural gas contributes to climate change and is setting us on a path to disaster he added.	But for me I think the way we get there is we just say sorry guys but by 2035 youre done she said during CNNs town hall.	Warren released her comprehensive climate change proposal inspired by Gov.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	True
As we have said many times the Presidents team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the Presidents plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986 deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters said in a statement responding to WaPosstory.	But the White House quickly disavowed the statements allegedly made by the two officials marking the second time in three weeks the Trump administration has had to shoot down carbon tax rumors.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	Most Republicans dont buy into a carbon tax.	False
We've got to do something and a lawsuit might be the only way to do it.	The government doesn't get to pick winners and losers in this thing Mace said.	These lawsuits are one tool in our bag that we're going to use.	South Carolina Gov.	The governor and Attorney General Alan Wilson have resolved to continue working together to determine the best path forward Symmes said.	False
Either there was a plan in place to deal with an unprecedented storm at Tyndall and it wasnt followed or there wasnt one and were already seeing the consequences.	However Lengyel waffled on humanitys role in shaping the climate behind these storms.	Whatever the reason we have to be ready to deal with them.	However as Hurricane Michael showed theres a vast gulf between acknowledging climate change and adequately preparing for it.	The flight line is devastated.	False
It helps give other islanders something to think about Ritter explains.	I think part of the benefit of a detailed audit like this is that it increases everyone's mindfulness about what they are doing with food says Gordon Jackson the manager of the resort's Waste to Wealth initiative.	This has really helped everybody throughout the food and beverage team and the organization as a whole just to think about what they are doing.	Compost is also shared with staff for use at their homes.	In May I experienced one hotel's efforts firsthand as I stood on the roof at ITC Maurya a hotel in Delhi.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	And Wheeler's approach ignoring science in favor of industry and pollution is a perfect reflection of Trump's shameful approach to climate issues.	But EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler a former coal lobbyist and a pro pollution apologist doesn't care.	Just because our scientists publish something in a journal doesnt mean that thats agency policy or all the other scientists at the agency agree with that particular study Wheeler told Reuters.	Wheeler was appointed to head the EPA after Trumps first scandal plagued EPA chief Scott Pruitt was ousted.	False
But head activism has led to criticism from from world leaders and others who allege she is being manipulated.	But adults must do everything not to bring teenagers and children into some extreme situations.	She already has an honour to her name after winning Amnesty International's highest Ambassadors of Conscience human rights award last month.	The 16 year old Swede started the Fridays for Future movement to demand action be taken to combat global warming and is currently taking a year off school to focus on campaigning.	Putin said young people who paid attention to environmental issues should be supported.	False
The Trump Administration's persistent and indefensible denial of climate change and their continued assault on actions essential to stemming its increasing devastation is reprehensible and I will use every available legal tool to fight their dangerous agenda said Schneiderman a Democrat.	New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman was among those who said they will sue.	Pruitt was among about two dozen attorney generals who sued to stop Obama's 2014 push to limit carbon emissions stymieing the limits from ever taking effect.	That was the right thing to do.	A lot of damage has been done said McConnell a Kentucky Republican.	True
Administrator Pruitt was working for environmental justice by meeting with the real residents affected by lead contamination and by committing to get results.	That includes financial help to make sure that happens.	We want that soil to be disposed of properly so as not to cause further contamination we want continued testing of the soil and ground water in this area and a commitment to ensure the residents exposed to the lead get the physical and mental health care they need for the rest of their life.	Those demands include Oversight of East Chicago's ongoing attempts to improve its corrosion control treatment expanded blood lead level testing of children under age 7 bottled water and home water filtration systems to residents throughout the city and testing the city's drinking water to determine the extent of the contamination.	We need them to commit to adjusting cleanup plan for the site.	False
Sometimes it appears to be a result of ineptitude other times it appears to be tactical.	The premise was that the industrial economies were most responsible for the greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and that developing countries needed to continue using fossil fuels for the immediate future to grow their economies.	It can be summed up in one word confusion.	They seem not to have read it.	Nor I assume is it shared by the hundreds of businesses and investors who urged Trump to remain in the pact.	False
The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	So how do climate activists get their way?	Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of deniers.	The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	True
There is near universal agreement that putting a price on carbon dioxide likely through a tax is key to scaling back emissions in much the same way levies on tobacco and alcohol are meant to offset those products societal costs.	Asked where the line is between what critics said was the previous administrations federal overreach and attempting to stave off the worst of what the IPCC predicted Flint went quiet for a while.	Nor did the oil giant Exxon Mobil Corp. which spent decades financing a network of climate change misinformation before announcing its support for a carbon tax or the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative a corporate consortium that advocates for what it calls practical solutions to climate change.	But for some conservative climate hawks the reality of the IPCC report hit home.	The only force that I know of on the planet that can deliver innovation as quickly as we need it is the free enterprise system said former Rep. Bob Inglis R S.C. now the executive director of RepublicEn a group urging Republicans to support a carbon tax.	True
In point of fact Mr. Schneiders issue isnt just with the president it is with the nation that elected him.	How a person can have such unshakable certainty in the outcome of complex future events is truly remarkable.	One hardly knows where to begin in taking apart an argument that is literally filled with errors fallacies inconsistencies and non sequiturs.	The essay by Nathan Schneider appearing in the May 31 issue of America titled Trumps war on the environment is a war on the young and the unborn makes the incredible case that withdrawing from the Paris agreement constitutes a war on future generations tantamount to genocide.	Without the Paris accord he claims mankind is a species embracing its own suicidal fragmentation.	True
With this report the Lung Association also calls out Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency EPA for ongoing threats to the nations air quality including steps to roll back or weaken enforcement of the Clean Air Act.	We still have a lot to do in this country to clean up air pollution said Lyndsay Moseley Alexander director of the Association's Healthy Air Campaign.	California has done more than any other state to counteract air pollution the Lung Association said.	EPA administrator Scott Pruitt hastaken many steps to roll back or put in loopholes to the Clean Air Act Alexander said adding thattheassociation is concerned and we will continueto fight forhealthy air she said.	Overall the report said about133 million Americans more than four of 10 live with unhealthful levels of air pollution placing them at risk for premature death and other serious health effects such as lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	False
Trump a proud climate change skeptic attributes the fires to lousy management.	US President Donald Trump is taking California to task for the management of its forests and dams blaming red tape for the devastating forest fires and drought plaguing the bluest of blue states and threatening to withhold aid.	It's hard not to think there's an element of spite in this rhetoric as wealthy and influential Californians led talk of secession following Trump's 2016 election victory.	Trump threatened to withhold future federal aid if Californiadoes not get on the ball implying that the state's environmental woes were its own fault.	Trump wants to redistribute that water to Californians he says.	False
The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate.	But then the childrens lawsuit is an unusual case.	Ann Carlson a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests theres something there that piques the courts interest.	The local governments are citing nuisance statutes and seeking money from oil companies to pay for damages caused by climate change whereas the childrens case is trying to force the government to enact policies to curb greenhouse gas emissions.	Asked for comment the Department of Justice pointed to comments made by Jeffrey Wood a political appointee at the DOJ handling environmental cases who spoke about the Juliana case at a law conference last week.	False
We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future?	As one of Florida's leading environmental researchers Dr. Frazer understands the unique water issues facing our state and the actions we must take to solve them he said Monday.	And the idea that you're signing up for some type of agenda I don't want to ... send a signal that that's what I'm doing because I'm not doing that DeSantis said .	Frazer will have his work cut out for him.	DeSantis appointed Thomas Frazer a biologist who has been director of the University of Florida's School of Natural Resources and Environment since 2012 and previously worked as acting director of the UF Water Institute In the new position he will coordinate Florida's research data and scientific work and make sure officials have the scientific analysis they need to tackle the state's environmental problems.	False
Thanks for this hearing.	Christina DeConcini director of government affairs for the environmental group World Resources Institute said the US needs a fact based approach for how to address this clear and present danger to America's infrastructure homes and businesses.	Donald J. Trump November 6 2012 The Senate Commerce Science and Transportation Committee hearing was conducted by Nelson the panel's ranking member but it was authorized by Republican Sen. John Thune of South Dakota the committee's chairman who has acknowledged human activity is responsible for climate change.	Today we sit at ground zero of the impacts of climate change in the US Florida Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson said.	The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non competitive.	False
The judge said the Corps also didnt adequately study how the pipeline might disproportionately affect the tribal community a concept known as environmental justice.	Todays decision is a disappointing continuation of a historic pattern Other people get all the profits and the tribes get all the risk and harm said Jan Hasselman an Earthjustice attorney representing the tribe in an ongoing federal lawsuit through which Standing Rock and three other tribes still hope to shut down the pipeline.	The Corps must simply connect the dots he said.	It includes increased public reporting of pipeline issues such as repairs and implementation of a spill response plan including equipment staging at Lake Oahe.	Boasberg found that it is likely the Army Corps of Engineers will be able to justify previous decisions made while permitting the pipeline.	False
But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a dramatic fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes.	Over the past decade previous governments in Brazil had managed to reduce deforestation with concerted action by federal agencies and a system of fines.	They say the president favours development over conservation.	Far right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe.	Scientists say the Amazon has suffered losses at an accelerated rate since Mr Bolsonaro took office in January.	False
They knew or should have known that this harmful compound would reach groundwater pollute drinking supplies render drinking water unusuable and unsafe and threaten the public health and welfare stated the complaint which claims an underground storage tank likely held the chemical.	Sacramento Suburban seeks to recover the substantial costs necessary to protect the public and restore its damaged drinking water supply the water districts lawsuit filed in federal court in Sacramento says as part of its claim seeking 1.1 billion in damages.	Plaintiffs claim heavy metals used by aircraft maintenance crews at the old McClellan Air Force Base have contaminated over 300 sites.	In addition to the Air Force the water district lawsuits name 10 firms they say were associated with providing chemicals to the base Elementis Chromium Inc. Occidental Chemical Corp. Honeywell Inc. BASF Corp. PPG Inc. E.I.	Contaminated with plating wastes solvents acids waste oils paint thinners strippers and sludges and other hazardous compounds the lawsuits stated.	False
I have decided that it is appropriate and in the public interest to reconsider the rule Pruitt wrote in a letter sent Wednesday to counsel for a utility group and officials at the U.S. Small Business Administration SBA.	Aside from arguing EPA improperly withheld data on how they came up with the rule plaintiffs argued the agency didnt perform proper testing to see if requiring coal plants to install new equipment would meet federal pollution guidelines.	Pruitt was responding to a petition sent by the Utility Water Action Group UWAG urging the Trump administration to rescind its Effluent Limitations Guidelines for coal fired power plants.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	To an unprecedented extent the Agency withheld fundamental information purporting to justify the Rule UWAG argued adding that included pages of the record that demonstrably were not entitled to confidential treatment.	False
Kim Ross ReThink Energy Florida leader resident witnessed people in her communityinTallahasseefeeling helpless after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster which damaged Gulf Coast ecosystems.	This is something thats happening now and needs to be addressed now.	Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because climate change is an issue that affects every other issue agriculture the economy including tourism.	Melissa Baldwin co organizer of Miami Climate Month which organized the rally says from the moment she and her fellow organizers found out the first debate would be in Miami they wanted to put a spotlight on climate change because you cant come to Miami without talking about climate change.	A coalition of local environmental groups organized the march to the Arsht Center in Miami where this round of debates is being held with marchers sporting signs calling for a specific climate change debate and pushing for the Green New Deal.	False
Democratic Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon the amendments author said on Twitter on Thursday Despite dangerous decision unwillingness to act we can will fight back to combat The amendment passed 16 14.	Framework Convention on Climate Change as well as the scientific body the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.	The cable also said diplomats should make clear that the United States wants to help other countries use fossil fuels which have been linked to global warming.	Republican Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lamar Alexander of Tennessee voted in favor as did all committee Democrats except for West Virginias Joe Manchin.	In a diplomatic cable that Reuters obtained last month Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said U.S. diplomats should sidestep questions from foreign governments on how the United States plans re engage in the global Paris climate agreement.	False
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke began advocating similar policy prescriptions earlier in 2018 after President Donald Trump blamed Californias bad environmental laws for creating a wildfire prone environment.RELATED Trump Administration Is Taking Its Fight Against Bad Environmental Laws Straight To California California forests have grown drier and less healthy from overcrowded trees infestations of bark beetles and the effects of climate change the LA Timeswrites.	California Democratic Gov.	Jerry Brown partnered with state lawmakers to introduce changes to the states policies.	Combined with drought insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality the op ed continues.	Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke was soon at the front of the administrations push for California to begin adopting more active land management policies.	False
She also cites Franklin D. Roosevelts New Deal Lyndon B. Johnsons Great Society and the interstate highway system begun under Dwight D. Eisenhower as examples of American know how and capability.	Ocasio Cortez said in a statement that the plan will create unprecedented levels of prosperity and wealth for all while ensuring economic and environmental justice and security.	Government can take an equity stake in Green New Deal projects so the public gets a return on its investment she said.	The freshman lawmaker and veteran Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts are teaming up on the plan which aims to eliminate the U.S. carbon footprint by 2030.	The resolution does not include a price tag but some Republicans predict it would cost in the trillions of dollars.	False
He noted that the poor pay the highest price for climate change often being forced to migrate due to water insecurity severe weather and an accompanying collapse in agriculture.	The transition to accessible and clean energy is a duty that we owe toward millions of our brothers and sisters around the world poor countries and generations yet to come the pope said.	He urged participants to use their demonstrated aptitude for innovation to address two of the great needs in todays world the care of the poor and the environment.	Frances also recalled his own appeal in the Laudato Si encyclical for an energy policy aimed at averting disastrous climate changes that could compromise the well being and future of the human family and our common home.	While Francis lauded the oil executives for embedding an assessment of climate change risks into their planning strategies he also put them on notice for their continued search for fossil fuel reserves 2 years after the Paris climate accord clearly urged keeping most fossil fuels underground.	False
So what could be behind these cases?	It means that if one pilot whale encounters a problem then it can have an impact on the entire group.	While the exact reasons remain unclear experts say many different factors could play a part.	It's a problem you get with these very social animals that tend to for reasons we have never been clear on end up following either a sick leader onto the beach or end up getting lost as a group Dr Brownlow says.	Experts say the answer lies in their herd like behaviour.	False
Our community and our planet are under attack yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate.	While federal regulators acknowledge the risks of crude by rail they have taken few steps toward increasing safety Inslee wrote in an op ed for the Columbian last year.	Railroads engage in interstate commerce which means the buck stops with the federal government.	In 2014 the state of Washington passed legislation to increase track and hazardous material inspections require oil spill contingency plans increase funding for prevention and cleanup of oil spills and improve safety at crossings along oil train routes.	Inslee urged Congress and the US Department of Transportation to implement even tougher regulations including lower speed limits for high hazard flammable trains and to use safer cars that are strong enough to protect volatile contents from the heat of a fire or the impact of a collision.	False
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi brushed it aside in an interview with Rolling Stone on Thursday saying it goes beyond what our charge is.	You're just a garden variety hypocrite like the others.	In addition to slashing carbon emissions the deal calls for widespread wealth redistribution to counteract systemic injustices and includes provisions for universal healthcare and taxpayer funded college tuition.	And you have ZERO expertise at any of the things you pretend to know he tweeted on Sunday before calling AOC an immature bully.	In a tweet the Bronx Democrat told skeptics If you dont like the Green New Deal then come up with your own ambitious on scale proposal...until then were in charge.	False
Like this story?	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	At around the same time his campaign cautioned voters not to turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines an ironic coincidence or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event?	Before Bidens eye exploded the audience had been raking him over the coals for a scheduled fundraiser the following night at the home of a natural gas executive.	Viewers called him out for rambling incoherent answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry.	False
Thats despite the fact that the 38 page document projects more frequent and more expensive disasters.	Now it looks like were condemned to repeat it.	But it wasnt so coy in its previous 2014 2018 strategic plan which noted that the agency will also ensure that future risks including those influenced by climate change are effectively integrated into the Agencys risk assessment resources and processes.	This is a glaring omission from an agency that deals with anticipating and responding to weather extremes driven in part by a changing climate.	Its not just rhetoric.	False
As Marshall saw it The private owner is thus responsible for almost every serious forest problem.	When massive problems develop cross jurisdictional lines and are associated with market failures big government responses can seem like the only possible solution.	The socialist sobriquet stokes ideological fires but douses historical understanding.	This story was originally published by High Country Newsand is shared here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration.	TheGreen New Dealand its proponents aim to tackle the intertwined issues of social and environmental justice in our age of anthropogenic climate change.	False
This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	And so what happens to these forests truly affects all life on Earth.	This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you me and the whole world.	If these ecosystems collapse the climate effects are likely to be irreversible.	We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster not just locally but globally.	False
I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice.	I believe I am the only person here who will say unequivocally this is my number one priority Steyer continued.	I know that we have to deal with this crisis.	Steyer also called on Mayor Pete Buttigieg another Democrat presidential hopeful to put more emphasis on climate change saying the people in his generation understand that this is a crisis that we have to go on right now and reinvent America.	Steyer then claimed he had previously taken on oil companies and beaten them on environmental laws and pushed clean energy across this country.	False
While calling Wheeler certainly qualified for this position Collins said some of the policies he has proposed as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	It's a sad day for public health and the EPA but missionaccomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries Ken Cook president of the Environmental Working Group said in a statement following the vote.	Mr. Wheeler has proven his ability to advance pragmatic solutions to pressing environmental challenges Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell R Ky. said on the Senate floor before the vote.	They have longed for one of their own to call the shots at the agency and now they finally have their man in Andrew Wheeler.	While leading President Donald Trump's deregulatory agenda Wheeler also has emphasized the agency's work to clean up Superfund sites and for the first time begin regulating a set ofharmful chemicalsfound in drinking water systems that serve millions of Americans.	False
Vanguard pays him rental fees for having the anaerobic digester on his farm.	His hope is that the concept will spread here.	In fact a recent report from the United Nations from a panel of climate experts estimates that up to 10 percent of all human made greenhouse gas emissions are linked to food waste.	We capture the gas in that bubble.	So here's one solution to the problem Dairy farmers in Massachusetts are using food waste to create electricity.	False
California Gov.	As president I have one obligation and that obligation is to the Americanpeople Trump said during a speech in theRose Garden announcingthe decision.	Withdrawal from the agreement marks a critical step in unraveling former President Obamas destructive legacy Needham said.	California for example has stood out with its toughest in the nation vehicle emissions laws that often effectively establish auto industrystandards nationwide.	Not only did Obama make this agreement without approval from Congress but in doing so he handed more control of Americas energy to foreign officials.	False
If a climate debate does happen much of the credit will belong to activist organizations like the US Youth Climate Strike a teen led group that has pressured candidates into endorsing the efforts.	They are Sen. Cory Booker who called for more time to be devoted to the issue after the first debate Montana Gov.	ORourkes campaign did not respond to a request for comment in time for publication to confirm Youth Climate Strikes tweet Booker supports more climate change discussion but the campaign toldMother Jones that the decision is in the hands of the DNC.	Steve Bullock former Colorado Gov.	In April climate activistslaunched a grassroots campaign demanding that one of the debates be dedicated to climate they noted that presidential debate moderators had a long history of giving short shrift to the issue.	False
Ironically though many who demand action do little of it themselves.	Individual actions are mere bollocks useless gestures.	Only the sacrifices made by others will make a difference.	A study by researchers at the University of Michigan and Cornell University found that those who are highly concerned about climate change are least likely to report individual level actions to reduce their environmental impact.	The most effective environmental efforts are often small personal actions in which people have skin in the game.	False
Mr. ORourke was less clear about whether he believes people in his home state of Texas should be prevented from living in vulnerable flood areas.	Asylum laws Mr. ORourke said should include those who have been impacted by climate change.	I reject any notion that we have to radically or fundamentally change how we eat or what we eat I think we just have to be more responsible in the way that we do it and the best way to do that is to allow the market to respond by setting a price on carbon he said.	He said the government should help people move but avoided answering a question from the moderator Don Lemon about whether some areas were simply too risky for human habitation.	The former Texas congressman was also one of the few candidates who explicitly tied Hurricane Dorian to newly proposed policies.	False
Substantively I think you have your thumb wrist forearm and elbow on the scale Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse D RI told Wheeler referring to Wheelers past work as a coal lobbyist.	Unlike Pruitt Wheeler did acknowledge that humans are driving changes in the climate and that it must be addressed.	I consider it to be an issue that has to be addressed globally.	Senate Democrats used the Wednesday confirmation hearing of Andrew Wheeler the acting administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to push him on the agencys negligence on climate change its rollback of regulations designed to protect Americans health and his uncannily close ties to the fossil fuel industry.	Sen. Bernie Sanders I VT asked Wheeler repeatedly.	False
Can you really look them in the eye and say 'No sorry I couldn't do anything because that country over there didn't do anything so if they're not going to do it then I'm not.'	But it's clear younger people are leading this movement and they say most adults especially policy makers are moving far too slowly.	But this time students are asking adults to join them.	That is shameful and that is cowardly Margolin said.	I agree that we need to ensure that we move forward in a sustainable rational manner said Graves.	False
We need to connect the dots Castro said Wednesday.	Ive connected the dots of actually preserving more of our lands both for the benefit of wildlife and for our benefit to combat climate change.	Sen. Elizabeth Warren D Mass.	But nearly all have policy proposals that drive home the need for the nation to be a better environmental steward.	The next president must be ready to lead the climate response we need to see on our shared lands and waters Huntley said.	False
We can potentially provide a powerful solution to produce the food closer to the population needing it at the exact and right time it is needed.	This joint experiment marks a significant first step toward achieving our vision to ensure food security for generations to come while preserving our natural resources.	One found that avoiding meat and dairy products was the single biggest way to reduce an individuals environmental impact on the planet.	We are proving that cultivated meat can be produced anytime anywhere in any condition said Didier Toubia co founder and chief executive of Aleph Farms.	The Israeli food technology startup Aleph Farms grew the meat on the International Space Station 248 miles 399 km away from any natural resources.	False
That is more than 21000 in income loss per family a portion of the letter read.	Majority Whip Steve Scalise and West Virginia Rep. David McKinley introduced a House resolution in April that explicitly condemns a tax on carbon dioxide pollution.	The idea of a carbon tax a fee charged onto companies according to the amount of carbon emissions their plants emit into the atmosphere has been recommended as a market friendly method to controlling CO2 pollution.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Most who took part in the summit agreed that afee on carbon emissions is pivotal in reforming the U.S. energy sector according to an Axios report.	False
But only those deniers get accused of not believing in science.	The point is that opponents dont like this science because of the political and social consequences of it.	Anyway what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning.	READ MORE How to Recognize Science Denial Progressives Claim to Love Science But What They Truly Love Is Power Climate Change Activists Are the Real Science Deniers Jonah Goldberg is a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior editor at National Review.	Who says?	False
I think some kind of major flood happened all over the world and it left an indelible imprint on the collective memory of mankind that got preserved in these stories.	In the Epic of Gilgamesh waters so overwhelm the mortals that the gods grow frightened too Gillis wrote In Indias version Lord Vishnu warns a man to take refuge in a boat carrying seeds.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	In the Bible God orders Noah to carry two of every living creature on his ark.	False
The City does not seek to impose liability on Defendants for their direct emissions of greenhouse gases anddoes not seek to restrain Defendants from engaging in their business operations the city wrote in its complaint.	New York Citys climate lawsuits are ultimately designed to target the industrys financial bottom line Susan Amron the chief of the environmental law division of the New York City Law Department said at a Sept. 26 panel discussion during the Climate Week NYC.	Manufacturers and conservative groups worry trial attorneys are behind the spat of climate litigation.	Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings called a contingency fee.RELATED Trial Lawyers Handling Cities Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions Hagens Bermanstood to earn billions of dollarsin contingency fees depending on the total winnings from a favorable judgement against oil companies.	One of the attorneys heading New York Citys climate litigation made comments in September that could seriously harm the citys mission to sue oil companies for contributing to global warming.	False
We sure appreciate the help from the NRCC in calling out politicians who take dirty fossil fuel money and then obstruct progress on climate change and are looking forward to similar NRCC ads attacking every single one of their own candidates said RL Miller Climate Hawks Votes political director in a statement.	The ad was released on Oct. 30 and immediatelynational environmental groups that generally align with Democrats called foul underscoring their support of Curbelos Democratic challenger Debbie Mucarsel Powell.	In one of South Floridascongressional districts the party machine swept in to prop up a two term incumbent by painting his opponent as a puppet of fossil fuel interests and dirty coal money.	If Curbelo had been half the climate champion he claims he is he wouldnt be desperately seeking an ad littered with lies such as this said Sierra Club PAC Director Sarah Burton in a statement.	1 donorhas been NextEra Energy the Florida electric utility which is one of the largest purveyors of solar and wind energy projects in the country.	False
Researchers believe that changes to the Earth's orbit may be partly responsible for some of the Earth's cooling but additional factors have likely played a part Jensen added.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	Theres no shortage of ideas about how this happens but its not quite clear how they all fit together.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING NEW STUDY FINDS What this suggests is that its a feedback loop said the study's lead author Alice Marzocchi.	False
They've got to get an answer to us by Feb. 26 or face the consequences warns Ornstein.	They need to do a whole lot more homework and much more research and analysis before we can ever even really engage in this discussion says Colin Woodall senior vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association.	J. Scott ApplewhiteAP hide caption toggle caption J. Scott ApplewhiteAP Environmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi this past December.	They need to do a whole lot more homework These days transportation accounts for the largest share of greenhouse gas emissions greenhouse gas emissions.	Given the scope and ambitious nature of the Green New Deal it might be tempting to criticize or dismiss activists supporting it.	False
The CO2 Coalition a right wing think tank that Happer co founded and that argues Earth benefits from humans pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere confirmedhis upcoming resignation in a Tuesday post to its website and praised him for his efforts.	He has long argued that the planet and humans benefit from increased carbon dioxide emissions.	The CO2 Coalition is one of several think tanks that peddle misinformation about climate change and receive funding from the Mercer familythe billionaire megadonors whogave more than 15 million to Trumps 2016 campaign.	Earlier this year TrumptappedHapper to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting adversarial scientific peer review of climate science part of the administrations relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis.	He has called climate science a cult claimed Earth is in the midst of a CO2 famine and said the demonization of carbon dioxide isjust like the demonization of the poor Jewsunder Hitler.	False
'A lot of people don't understand that I have done more environmental impact statements probably than anybody that's I guess I can say definitely because I've done many many many of them.	'We can take care of people that we couldn't afford taking care of the past because of the great wealth we can't let that wealth is taken away clean air clean water thank you very much everybody I appreciate it thank you' he concluded.	And that's what we're doing.	Guterres said Monday that 'we are much worse than we were during Paris ... and so it's absolutely essential that countries commit themselves to increase what was promised.'	Trump was referencing his time as a builder when an environmental review is part of the construction process.	False
Even you.	This is not saying that disaster occurs the next day Rothman says.	Do you know what?	But before you ring up your grandchildren and warnthem to cancel the marquee theyve booked for their 100th birthday celebrations perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothmans cheery prediction.	Second Rothman appears to have given himself so much margin for error as to render his doomsday projection meaningless.	False
Recently a policy briefing from the world leading Woods Hole Research Center has moved our understanding of this risk further through a clearly written summary.	It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self reinforcing cycle takes over.	A policy briefing from the Woods Hole Research Center concludes that the IPCC doesnt adequately account for a methane warming feedback While most attention has been given to carbon dioxide it isnt the only greenhouse gas that scientists are worried about.	Consequently an initial warming leads to more emission leading to more warming and more emission.	Even as some scientists are still looking at what happened during the second half of the 20th century at a scale of change over decades others are beginning to address the significant acceleration of changes observed year by year.	False
Scientific evidenceand input iscrucial to policy efforts.	It informs decision makers.	WASHINGTON The Environmental Protection Agency is drawing heat for pulling its scientists from a paneldiscussion Monday in Rhode Island as part of a conference spotlighting the effects of climate change on the Narragansett Bay.	The withdrawal of the two scientists as well as an agency consultanthas sparked fresh criticism about EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt'sskepticism toward the broad scientific community's conclusion that human caused global warming is a proven fact and a growing concern.	And it should not take away from the terrific scientific work that is being done because at the heart of all this is not the politics its the knowledge.	False
People they note are finally paying attention.	Then he said decide and history will judge the decisions.	Meanwhile reporter Lisa Friedman on Tuesday used a comment from the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to stick up for the tasteless global warming warriors now using the tragedy of Hurricane Irma to forward their environmental agenda in For E.P.A.	Friedman found a Republican to mouth concern over climate change and promptly teed him up in paragraph two while instantly identifying her by party something the paper consistently fails to do with Democrats in trouble Scott Pruitt the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency says it is insensitive to discuss climate change in the midst of deadly storms.	Dr. Kirtman and Dr. Berry are among a group of Florida scientists who confronted Governor Rick Scott in recent years for his refusal to acknowledge that human made greenhouse gases are driving climate change.	False
Putting a price on carbon can help change the behavior of polluters.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Much like the new bipartisan bill Curbelos was doomed to fail from the beginning and he endured attack ads from the right for even introducing it.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	While the bill has little chance of passing it is intended to spark a debate over carbon pricing as the Democratic Party prepares to take over the lower chamber of Congress.	False
Trump and Pruitt and others of their ilk might have greed and corruption as motives.	Its pure unadulterated selfishness.	This is why deniers exist.	The equation that is most dangerous according to Jeffrey Kluger of Time is n1 otherwise stated as If it matters to me it counts.	They dont want to spend their own money to solve a problem that might affect their grandkids and not themselves.	False
But most importantly methane from natural gas contributes to climate change and is setting us on a path to disaster he added.	They make surrounding communities less healthy and less safe.	We would work it out.	Fracking is a danger to our water supply.	It causes earthquakes.	False
The text of the rule change lays out the committees jurisdiction and required areas of action.	Early on under Jurisdiction the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national industrial economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality.	Editors Note This post has been updated with grammatical fixes.	More Ocasio Cortez sees this plan is being a vehicle through which social equality might finally realized through theuse of reparations to right historicalinjustices.	Under Scope of the Plan a section on labor states the committees final plan shall Require strong enforcement of labor workplace safety and wage standards that recognize the rights of workers to organize and unionize free of coercion intimidation and harassment and creation of meaningful quality career employment.	False
These emerging giants have chosen instead to emphasise the historical responsibility of rich nations to lead the way and provide financing to poor countries.	If there was one time in the history when I would say governments fucked up I would say today in Madrid governments fucked up said Mohamed Adow Director of Power Shift Africa.	The United States which is leaving the landmark Paris climate deal next year was accused of acting as a spoiler on a number of issues vital to climate vulnerable nations.	It isn't reflective of the kids who are demonstrating on the streets the world over communities being washed away by rising sea levels he said late Saturday.	This included so called loss and damage funding to help disaster hit countries repair and rebuild.	False
The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	So how do climate activists get their way?	Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of deniers.	The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	False
The Washington Posts editorial board in an article titled Yes you can blame President Trump for Hurricane Florence even went so far as to say Trump was complicit for the storm.	The reason the Washington Post and others are consistently alleging despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary that Republicans are somehow to blame for natural disasters such as Hurricane Florence is either because they know absolutely nothing about the topic or because they believe it will help Democrats win elections.	In article after article pundits have claimed Republicans especially President Donald Trump are in some way responsible for Hurricane Florence.	As Roy Spencer Ph.D. an acclaimed climate scientist who previously worked for NASA recently stated The fact that there has been no long term change in global hurricane activity and even a 50 percent decrease in U.S. landfalling major hurricanes over the last 80 years means no one is complicit in these storms.	And if all that werent enough its absolutely absurd to say Trump is any way responsible for global warming because even if it is true humans are the primary cause of warming carbon dioxide emissions actually dropped in Trumps first two years in office.	False
