Are you an insider at Google Facebook Twitter or any other tech company who wants to confidentially reveal wrongdoing or political bias at your company?	Population control is another solution embraced by geniuses on the left.	Reach out to Allum Bokhari at his secure email addressallumbokhari Allum Bokhari is the senior technology correspondent at Breitbart News.	This followed an article published byNewsweek in which two psychologists mused on the human taboo against cannibalism noting thatphilosophers have argued that burying the dead could be wasteful in the context of the fight against world hunger.	Are you ready to be a parasite for the environment?	False
Perhaps this frustration explains why Adam Boulton a presenter on Sky News told an Extinction Rebellion organizer Robin Boardman on live TV that the protesters come across as incompetent middle class self indulgent people trying to tell us how to live our lives.	And for way too long the politicians and the people in power have gotten away with not doing anything.	Scientists may not be infallible but Ive seen no credible argument for why they are all wrong in the same way.	Instead of explaining why this perception is wrong Boardman insisted with his hand on his heart that he cared deeply before storming off the set.	Fifth to end oppression and bring about the redistribution of power.	False
There is a ship washed ashore she added.	Last month a series of earthquakes struck the Indonesian island of Lombok killing hundreds of people the biggest on 5 August killed more than 460.	The 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia.	Officials have reported five deaths but it is not clear if those were as a result of the tsunami.	The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed.	False
So must the solution.	Thats why we need a to fundamentally transform our society Markey added.	Other Democrats are also supporting the general thrust of Tuesdays report.	The crisis touches every aspect of our lives.	Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and Sen. Ed Markey retweeted links to a report signed by more than 11000 scientists who argue that the population must be stabilizedand ideally gradually reducedwithin a framework that ensures social integrity.	False
Were addressing the issue.	With a new Congress in session we demand they heed these warnings about climate change and step up to act at the scale of the crisis she said in a statement.	We have our own plan.	Everyone else is up he said referring to other countries overall emissions.	Were moving forward.	True
In a nod to the social justice part of the plan he says that the deal is an opportunity to uproot historical injustices and inequities to advance social racial and economic justice including redressing the exclusion of black brown Native Americanand other vulnerable communities from the programs that made up the original New Deal.	But the White House hopeful also promises that the plan will pay for itself over 16 years sayingexperts have scored the plan and its economic effects.	The plan also promises support for the climate justice movement to take on the fossil fuel industry and other polluters and lead the globe in solving the climate crisis.	He also promises justice for frontline communities via a 40 billion Climate Justice Resiliency Fund as well as an extra 200 billion to the Green Climate Fund.	SANDERS CALLS FOR 'REGISTRY OF DISREPUTABLE FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS' CUTTING PRISON POPULATION IN HALF The Vermont senator has long been an advocate for the Green New Deal but only this year has it become a central policy for many of those seeking the Democratic nomination for president.	True
Mr. Inslees absence could create an opening for another presidential aspirant to seize the mantle of climate candidate.	Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality.	Mr. Sanders unveiled his proposal one day after Gov.	WASHINGTON Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a 16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet warming greenhouse gases.	It declares climate change a national emergency envisions building new solar wind and geothermal power sources across the country and commits 200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	True
Defendants have known for nearly 50 years that greenhouse gas pollution from their fossil fuel products has a significant impact on the Earths climate and sea levels the complaint states.	Californias pioneering attitude to climate change action was underlined by separate court action launched on Monday aimed at holding fossil fuel companies accountable for global warming.	The municipalities are claiming damages from the fossil fuel firms echoing a strategy used against the tobacco industry in the 1990s that resulted in multibillion dollar payouts.	Marin and San Mateo counties along with the City of Imperial Beach filed a lawsuit in the California superior court to complain that 37 oil gas and coal companies knew burning their products would increase carbon pollution and cause sea levels rise.	Tonight California stood tall and once again boldly confronted the existential threat of our time said Jerry Brown Californias governor.	True
The GOPs leading politicians and media outlets have tended to praise fossil fuel companies and ignore or cast doubt on climate science.	Silicon Valley business leaders like Apple CEO Tim Cook and Tesla CEO Elon Musk have also been arguing that the US should stick to the agreement.	Still withdrawing from such a recent agreement that the vast majority of countries across the world have signed on to has serious consequences for Americas role as a global leader.	The Associated Presss Jill Colvin and Julie Pace though report that Trumps decision may not be entirely clear cut and that aides continued to deliberate on caveats in the language.	So the question of whether the US should actually pull out of the agreement has reportedly been the subject of intense debate within the Trump administration.	True
The team's eventual aim is to capture the atoll's whole ecosystem from molecule upwards so it can help local governments and communities evaluate future risks and make better decisions.	Technology could help here too.	Rats can cause the collapse of the entire terrestrial ecosystem says Island Conservation's Sally Esposito.	It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market but The Brando proves it is possible says Prof Graham Miller who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey.	The success of the project recently convinced the local government to fund a much larger breeding facility that could see the programme expand to other Pacific islands he says.	True
We need to know what kind of impact this corporate favoritism is having on average Americans' health and quality of life.	On Thursday Democrats will take control of the House of Representatives and the committees that conduct government oversight.	Over the next two years those actions will face intense scrutiny on Capitol Hill.	Rep. Raul Grijalva the Arizona Democrat tipped to chair the House Natural Resources Committee says Americans can expect the committee to probe the financial costs and public health risks associated with Interior Department policies under Trump.	The Trump administration has spent two years giving away the store to fossil fuel companies and Republicans in Congress cheered every step of the way says Grijalva.	True
The eyes of all future generations are upon you.	Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act then you would be evil.	But the young people are starting to understand your betrayal.	So a 50 risk is simply not acceptable to us we who have to live with the consequences.	And if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you.	True
The owner shall be responsible for ensuring that each customer using the tanning facility is of legal age to do so.	It also calls for guidance regarding the identification of students and compliance with applicable nondiscrimination laws which would include the Equality Act if passed by Congress a big legislative priority of congressionalDdemocrats.	Doctors will also have to screen patients for adverse childhood experiences that may impact a patients physical or mental health or the provision of health care services to the patient.	The bill goes on to describe several areas for this guidance.	Section G of House Bill No.	False
These are among the conclusions that some might reach from this latest work.	The authors themselves are anxious that their research is not misunderstood.	That's not the right message to take at all.	Those commitments would require strengthening the nationally determined contributions NDCs the pledges to cut emissions contained in the Paris agreement.	In reality nothing is quite that straightforward.	False
Jerry Brown said in announcing the lawsuit along with other top California Democrats.	The lawsuit was filed in the U.S.	The world is not flat pollution is not free and the health and safety of our children is not for sale said Democratic state Attorney General Xavier Becerra standing alongside the governor.	Pollutants coming out of vehicles out of the tailpipe does permanent lung damage to children living near well traveled roads and freeways.	At issue is a move by Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt to roll back 2012 rules aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions.	True
The old rule put Washington in control of ponds puddles and prairie potholes saidWyoming GOP Sen.Tom Barrasso who chairs the Environment and Public Works Committee.	States would overseemost ditches terrain that fills with water during or in response to rainfall certain wetlands that have been used to grow crops stormwater control ponds and water and wastewater treatment systems.	Polluters were allowed to dump toxic waste into our waterways without consequence.	The Obama administration claimed it was in the interest of water quality but it was really about power power in the hands of the federal government over landowners Wheeler said.	Even a child understands that small streams flow into large streams and lakes which provide drinking water for so many Americans said Craig Cox senior vice president for agriculture and natural resources for the EnvironmentalWorking Group.	False
Donald Trump isnt just shirking his constitutional responsibility to advance scientific innovation but hesputting at risk the only planet we have.	As thousands of activists and scientists around the world gather to March for Science Bill Nye has a U.S. Constitution lesson for Donald Trump that proves he must advance scientific causes.	Nye had a reminder for the Trump administration I just want to remind the administration that science is political.	Nye said that solutions to battling climate change are realistic and doable if the United States simply puts resources toward the effort and decides to act.	This is all in the U.S. Constitution Thats what enables innovation and if our country stops innovating it will not be able to compete worldwide.	True
The most consistent factor in all of this coverage was the criticism.	Correspondent Chip Reid echoed by referencing worldwide condemnation.	The twin disasters of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma showcased once again the media's reflex to use such tragedies to push for liberal climate change policies.	NBC Nightly News correspondent Matt Bradleys July 30 quip that President Donald Trump shifts American climate commitments into reverse was typical of the media attitude towards the presidents environmental policies.	On April 22 CBS Evening News correspondent Dean Reynolds noted that Joe Bast CEO of The Heartland Institute looks with approval on Mr. Trumps decision to roll back regulations limiting greenhouse gases and to his appointments of fellow skeptics in the administration.	True
Robert A. Franek is a part of Politicus Policy Discussion in which writers draw connections between real lives and public policy.	Each of these is an outrageous moral failure.	When the environment poses an unnecessary threat to ones health life is denied.	One might expect the so called party of life to be concerned about this.	Assuring that all have life liberty and the pursuit of happiness is a fundamental moral commitment that we share as citizens working together for the common good of all people and the whole creation.	True
Whats the takeaway from all this?	They ask each of us to do what it takes to avoid collapsing or descending into chaos.	Hall gives an honorable mention to these as well Emission Critical Focuses on the action we need to take reducing emissions.	They refer to a tipping point that were catapulting toward and must find a way to avert.	Good brand names instill a clear message or even a direct call to action.	False
Every time there is a disaster politicians journalists and scientists unfailingly spring to life to tell us that the disaster and the costs and suffering that accompanied it were associated with linked to or even caused by climate change Pielke wrote in his newly updated book.	While political spin doctors often find ways to parse language and statistics to say things that are plausibly defensible but which are ultimately misleading or just wrong for me such misrepresentations have gone too far in an area where I have some considerable expertise Pielke wrote.	This stance has ultimately led me to being systematically attacked any time I make a public statement about climate change in effect railroading me out of the climate debate as an unwelcome voice Pielke wrote.	While this is often extremely frustrating I remain committed to doing the best job I can analyzing data on climate and disasters in ways that are transparent and grounded in evidence.	The newest version of the book The Rightful Place of Science Disasters Climate Change by University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. takes on the often false claims peddled in the media about global warming and disasters from hurricanes to floods to droughts.	False
But were not being given the option of deciding how to do it ourselves.	We want to be the ones to make the decisions on how were going to contribute.	Andrew Cuomos support.	Certainly.	Theres an issue with that.	True
When a reporter later pressed him outside the White House Zinke said that of course climate change is a factor in the California fires a rather unconvincing acknowledgment considering previous remarks and the number of times Zinke cast doubt on the all but irrefutable body of scientific research that shows human carbon emissions are driving global climate change.	Pruitt said that it wasnt a lack of money that was plaguing the program but rather poor leadership and poor focus on the part of the Obama administration.	Early in his tenure former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt prioritized fixing Superfund the struggling and financially strapped program responsible for cleaning up the nations most contaminated sites.	It is also reminiscent of former Interior Department chief Ryan Zinkes response to wildfires in the western United States.	Superfund experts havesaid the administrations approach highlights its lack of understanding about how the program functions.	True
Name calling and politicization of science are toxic to the scientific enterprise and undermines our credibility in the general community.	Despite his agreement with the climate consensus Mass has increasingly come under fire from activists for not toeing the alarmist line when it comes to blaming extreme weather events on global warming.	Curry who spoke at length with Mass about the events wrote The attacks ramped up when a group of students complained to the Assistant Dean for Diversity Equity and Inclusion.	The matter didnt end there however and Atmospheric Sciences Department Chair Dale Durran sent a mass email to the Department faculty including the link to Lenfernas post and voicing concern about Mass behavior and racism' Curry noted.	Curry said the students accused Mass of deception being on the payroll of oil companies purposely obfuscating with multiple twitter accounts racism misogyny tokenism Trumpism.	True
We still have a long way to go in our understanding said Seewald who was not involved in the study.	A press conference viewer asking questions of the scientists via Twitter asked if NASA was talking about bacteria or algae or giant squids.	The researchers reported that the hydrogen along with carbon dioxide that was also found could mean that undersea microbes are producing methane as they do in the bowels of our own oceans and waterways.	It really represents a capstone finding for the mission said Cassinis project scientist Linda Spilker noting that the spacecraft has been circling Saturn for more than a decade.	Scientists have long known about the plumes of water vapor spewing from cracks at the moons south pole thanks to Cassini .	True
In the December 2015 Quinnipiac poll 83 of Democrats thought the US should be doing more compared to 62 of independents and 26 of Republicans.	Eight in 10 Democrats 54 of independents and 22 of Republicans thought in August that climate change has an impact the fires.	Fewer Republicans one third said more should be done about climate change and another third of Republicans thought that the US is doing enough to address climate change.	Over half 53 of voters in the August Quinnipiac poll said climate change is a factor in making fires more extreme.	Democrats are much more likely to think they'll be impacted 67 than independents 45 or Republicans 18 but whether that's because more Democrats live in coastal regions or due to just plain partisanship it's hard to tell.	False
Womens suffrage and womens rights.	The abolition of slavery.	But the former vice president who won a Nobel Peace Prize for his climate change work has faced pushback from some conservatives for his efforts.	If everybodys just completely happy with what youre doing you may not be working hard enough to bring about the kind of change that we need Gore said on CBS.	The longtime climate change battle advocate has taken criticism of his work in stride.	True
Previously as Californias attorney general Harris was charged with protecting the states progressive environmental laws in the courts.	She also reportedly launched an investigation in 2016 into whether Exxon Mobil lied to the public and shareholders about the risks of climate change though her office never confirmed the probe.	The plan is meant to set the U.S. senator from California apart in a crowded field of Democratic presidential candidates by drawing on her experience prosecuting polluters as a California attorney general and district attorney.	Since then both New York and Massachusetts have pursued cases against the oil company.	Bahram Fazeli director of research and policy for Communities for a Better Environment a California focused environmental justice group said Harris record on the environment was decent.	True
The creation of the new panel of climate change deniers and the recruitment of supporters to provide it with a veneer of legitimacy echoes the campaign by Joseph Stalins regime to discredit the work of geneticists who disagreed with the disastrous lysenko soviet union russia548786 pseudo scientific theories of Trofim Lysenko.	In July 2014 Professor Happer caused controversy during an interview on CNBC television climate expert demonization of carbon dio200107 in the United States when he claimed that the demonisation of carbon dioxide is just like the demonisation of the poor Jews under Hitler.	He was formerly a trustee of the George C Marshall Institute which received funding from ExxonMobil and other companies to spread doubt inside and outside the United States about the role of fossil fuels in climate change.	He was also forced to defend himself after Greenpeace revealed an exchange of email messages Email Chain Happer O Keefe and Donors Trust.html during which Professor Happer discussed writing reports to promote climate change denial in exchange for a secret fee paid to the CO2 Coalition.	Lysenko wrongly believed that acquired traits could be passed on by parents to their offspring.	False
Seychelles President Danny Faure said Our large ocean brings development opportunities but also responsibility.	Under the terms of the 21m 15m deal the charity and the investors including the Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation paid for a portion of the Seychelles national debt.	The Oscar winner said This effort will help the people of Seychelles protect their ocean for future generations and will serve as a model for future marine conservation projects worldwide.	By planning properly to protect our environment we can be sure we are also protecting our people and their livelihoods against an uncertain future.	A foundation set up by actor Leonardo DiCaprio is one of the investors that worked on the deal.	True
He didn't thank the armies of firefighters who are battling the blazes or the nine people who have died in the infernos.	That move gives Californians access to unemployment assistance food aid and legal and mental health counseling and makes federal financial assistance available to cities and counties that will have to repair billions of dollars worth of infrastructure damage.	'We do manage all of our rivers in California and all the water is allocated many times over.	And most engaged in the effort are using chemical flame retardants.	It also allows federal agencies to help battle the 17 major fires burning throughout the state including what is now known as the 'Carr fire' which is just 40 per cent contained and has incinerated more than 1000 homes.	False
Why do we want to let someone start drilling for more oil when we need to be putting money into resources for green economy and green fuel said Jim Wilson a 71 year old retired mail carrier from Placerville outside Sacramento.	Jerry Brown and others to request a similar exemption.	We are California and we will fight back to protect our beautiful coast said Assemblyman Al Muratsuchi of Torrance.	The state agencies weighed in ahead of a public meeting Thursday in Sacramento the only opportunity for people to register their opinions in person to the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management.	Comments can be submitted online through March 9.	True
U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte of the Northern District of California said Interior had failed to give a reasoned explanation for the changes and had not offered details why an earlier analysis by the Obama administration was faulty.	After all there is no reasonable explanation for anything this president has done when it comes to the environment whether its allowing toxic sludge to be dumped in our waterways or pulling out of the historic Paris climate accord.	On Wednesday one federal judge reminded Donald Trump that hating Barack Obama is not a good enough reason to ignore key environmental protections.	While the previous administration let science and data drive its climate agenda the Trump administration has had one goal in mind destroying former President Obamas environmental legacy.	In a way that cuts to the heart of everything this administration has done so far when it comes to environmental policy.	True
the former secretary of state asked.	the congressman asked.	I dont know who he has there because it'ssecret he replied.	JOHN KERRY SLAMMED FOR 'SHAMEFUL' SHADOW DIPLOMACY AFTER ADMITTING TO MEETINGS WITH IRAN The two men continued their back and forth before Massie asked Kerry if he was saying the president doesnt have educated adults there now.	I think its somewhat appropriate that somebody with a pseudoscience degree is here pushing pseudoscience in front of our committee Massie said before Kerry fired back.	False
Democrats and conservatives alike say they can help President Donald Trump cut corporate taxes and put money in the pockets of American taxpayers but it will come at a price penalizing coal miners and fossil fuel interests for contributing to global warming.	Their plans would essentially transfer money from greenhouse gas polluters to individual and corporate taxpayers.	The goal of a carbon tax is to reduce the use of goods and services that produce greenhouse gas emissions and to convince companies to reduce their emissions.	A pair of Democratic senators and the bipartisan Climate Leadership Council aim to make a fee on carbon emissions part of tax reform.	That would be a hard pill for Trump to swallow given his pledge to revive the coal industry and put miners back to work.	True
Asked on Saturday whether he thought climate change had a role in the fires he said you have a lot of factors.	Trump initially blamed state officials for poor forest management in making the fires in northern and southern California worse and even threatened to cut off federal funding.	He said Managing the forest is part of it.	However it seems likely that number of missing persons may be an over estimate amid confusion over the way the list has been compiled.	I have a strong opinion.	False
People are suffering.	Thunbergs fiery speech was likewise met with praise or disdain depending on where one stood in regard to the narrative of manmade climate change.	We are all Greta another resistance activist proclaimed sharing a photo of Thunberg scowling at Trump next to a photo of her meeting his predecessor Barack Obama.	You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words she thundered at the world leaders on Monday.	Later on Monday the president did finally notice the young activist.	False
And in a statement posted to Twitter the ongoing agency chief said he cannot justify spending thousands of dollars defending myself and my family against false allegations.	For all his feigned swagger Ryan Zinke lacked the courage or integrity to face accountability skipping town as soon as he faced scrutiny Evers said.	In recent weeks some Democratic lawmakers made clear that they intended to investigate both Zinkes personal conduct and policy decisions.	Unfortunately for the American people Zinke leaves behind a deputy secretary with similar ethical concerns.	The next secretary should respect public desire for strong environmental standards and an end to corporate favoritism.	True
The pontiff said that such actions are usually caused by corporations and an elementary sense of justice would require that they be punished for them.	I would like to appeal to all the leaders and actors in this area to contribute their efforts to ensuring adequate legal protection for our common home he said.	Above and beyond its sinfulness failure to care for the environment is an injustice and a crime Francis suggested and should be legally enforced.	It is a sin against future generations and is manifested in acts and habits of pollution and destruction of the harmony of the environment in transgressions against the principles of interdependence and in the breaking of networks of solidarity between creatures.	We must introduce we are thinking about it in the Catechism of the Catholic Church the sin against ecology the ecological sin against the common home because it is a duty the pope said Friday in addressing participants in an international conference on penal law.	True
Climate change is a reality and not to address it is gross negligence by government said Cuomo according to a new page on the state website with the banner Environment Leadership.	If we can get it onto his desk hell have no choice but to sign it.	The 71 year old lawmaker from Setauket a coastal hamlet on Long Island Sound started warning about the threat of runaway global warming two decades ago.	There needs to be some adjustments made in the perception of how important this bill is to bring it into the executive chamber ready for the governors signatureEnglebright said Friday.	It requires 40 percent of state energy funding to go to the low income neighborhoods and communities of color most vulnerable to sea level rise and extreme weather and includes wage standards backed by labor unions for all state funded green energy projects.	False
Under Obama the United States the second biggest carbon polluter provided critical impetus for the Paris deal by concluding a precursor deal with China the number one emitter.	The Paris Agreement endorsed by members of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC is a bedrock of international action against man made global warming.	Experts have said his plan which eases emissions limits for coal fired power plants and scraps more stringent vehicle pollution standards almost guarantees that the US will fail to meet its commitments under the Paris Agreement.	Top officials from the Group of Seven industrial nations gathered in Rome Italy today amid growing concerns over the US administration's moves to unravel policies aimed at stalling global warming.	The Group of Seven gathering the biggest western democracies comprises Britain Canada France Germany Italy Japan and the United States.	True
When its not personal then you revert to what your team has been saying and the values your team has.	Most recently lawmakers from both parties in the mainland US and Puerto Rico have called for an investigation into how a tiny energy company in Zinkes hometown of Whitefish Montana won a major contract to rebuild power lines in hurricane ravaged Puerto Rico.	Meanwhile Zinke is also coming under scrutiny for other reasons including his use of private and military jets.	As such the agency is often the arbiter between oil gas and mining companies seeking access to valuable resources embedded in public lands and environmentalists seeking to protect the same lands for biodiversity wildlife and recreation.	To make it cheaper for coal companies to strip mine in watersheds and make it more expensive for families to visit Yosemite is a perversion of American values said Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club.	False
He also blamed the states bad environmental laws the most protective in the nation and trees.	Be the solution not the problem.	As California wildfires claimed their seventh victimDonald Trumpfinally weighed in on the tragedy with one of his most confounding tweets ever blaming California for the blazes because it diverts water to the Pacific Ocean.	Primrose Lane August 6 2018 No you scientists have been seeing the fingerprints of all over these fires and it's making them far worse.	Your destructive environmental policy is what causes climate change.	False
This kind of pushback were getting from Rover that says You have absolutely no state authority this is all a FERC issue and the tenor and tone theyve taken to interact with us doesnt happen often Butler said.	It also fined the firm 431000.	Project manager Buffy Thomason wanted to extend thanks to the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency so she emailed the firms lobbyist in the state Art Arnold that evening.	The dispute offers a cautionary tale in what one critic described as regulatory capture of a state agency by a company with deep ties to the Trump administration and a reputation as an environmental pariah unafraid to deploy scorched earth tactics against its opponents.	On June 1 FERC opened an investigation into the incident.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	Human society is overwhelmingly responsible for our warming planet.	Rubio said that while scientists agree that human behavior is contributing to climate change Icant tell you what percentage of that is due to human activity.	There is overwhelming scientific consensusincluding from the United States government that human activity is the main driver of climate change.	No matter what the answer is most or all of it.	True
President Obama made commitments in this deal based off a costly power plan that we knew at the time was on shaky legal ground.	But make no mistake if President Trump won't lead the American people will.	If President Trump wants nations like China and India to take stronger and swifter action on climate then he should do so through the accountability and enforcement provisions in the Paris Agreement not by breaking our word and storming out of the room.	President Trump acted in America's best interest moving away from a flawed agreement that placed too heavy a burden on American jobs and opening the door to a new agreement that reaches the right balance.	This damages our nation's reputation as an international leader and puts future generations at risk to the threat of climate change.	False
In 38 states governors also appoint utility commissioners who shape investment in energy infrastructure and can help decide whether to keep an aging coal plant online or to rapidly deploy renewables.	Democrat Tony Evers Wisconsins governor elect defeated incumbent Scott Walker on a platform that included a pledge to join 17 other governors committed to the goals of the Paris climate agreement.	They also play a huge role in how federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act are enforced.	These wins are critical because governors have executive authority that allows them to dictate some state energy priorities.	Measures like Colorados anti fracking Proposition 112 and Washington states Initiative 1631 to price carbon emissions were defeated in part due to a firehose of money being unleashed by fossil fuel interests.	True
But there are a lot of other factors that impact vulnerability as well.	RH The types of mitigation efforts youre talking about are critical.	PS Has flood insurance basically induced people to take risks that they shouldnt be taking?	Should they just get out?	Dont they override or mightnt they override the kinds of things we as human beings are doing in the short term?	True
He added that protection from liability would be important to Exxon which is under investigation for its past statements and actions on climate change.	A company spokesman said the liability component of the plan was not part of the companys decision to endorse it.	Some environmental groups did not accept that explanation on Tuesday.	Mr. Gerrard added If a sufficiently high carbon tax were imposed it could accomplish a lot more for fighting climate change than liability suits.	Michael B. Gerrard the director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia Law School and an expert on climate litigation said there had been four suits brought against energy companies over climate change including one brought by the eroding Arctic coastal town of Kivalina Alaska.	True
As each day goes by and we find out more about Pruitts conflicts of interests and revelations about his failed judgement however its important to remember that his failures have real world impacts on the health of the people he is supposed to be protecting.	As I told EPA in my testimony Families are looking to EPA to solve the coal ash problem not abandon them.	In places like and on the weve seen the tragedies that coal ash spills and leaks can cause by devastating communities contaminating water and sending people to the hospital.	By day Pruitt was touting his rollback efforts to make it easier for energy companies and utilities to save money by polluting and by night he slept peacefully in a bed owned by someone who energy companies and utilities hire to do their bidding on Capitol Hill.	One small town Alabama mayor summed up the thoughts of everyone in the room when he faced EPA representatives a simply said What are you doing?	False
To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced.	Congress should address that at some point.	... Those are things so important to citizens of Florida right now and to discuss the cause and effect of these storms there's the... place and time to do that it's not now.	My focus has to be on ... these areas that I described he said.	All I'm saying to you is to use time and effort to address it at this point is very very insensitive to this people in Florida.	True
In so doing the government has deprived the plaintiffs the youngest is 11 years old the right to a safe and stable climate system.	We would have preferred to go to trial submit our extensive evidence and have the judge require the defendants to come up with a plan a national climate recovery plan for how theyre going to go about doing this Gregory said.	As Gregory and the other attorneys for the children wrote in their injunction request This injunction is urgently needed because despite long standing knowledge of the resulting destruction to our Nation and the profound harm to these young Plaintiffs Defendants ongoing development of the fossil fuel based energy system is actively harming Plaintiffs and jeopardizing Plaintiffs ability to obtain the full remedy in their case.	Besides suing the government several counties and cities are seeking damages from coal oil and gas companies for contributing to climate change which in turn is posing a public nuisance to these jurisdictions.	Philip Gregory one of the lead attorneys representing the children filing suit explained that the injunction request is meant to address the urgency of limiting climate change by reducing emissions from fossil fuels immediately.	True
It wasnt all the candidates fault.	But give the network partial credit for noting that plans like the Green New Deal will hurt mining and agricultural communities.	from Harvard Law School.	Biden blamed climate change for the cancer and thegenocide in Darfur previously thought to be the fault of Arab militias slaughtering raping and displacing black African civilians.	He earned an A.B.	True
Roxanne Quimby co founder of Burts Bees cosmetics and her foundation purchased tracts of land in the northern reaches of Maine with the purpose of creating a national park.	Environmental groups have vowed legal action to stymie any alterations to the protected areas.	Another Obama creation the marine monument was designated in September 2016 and sits off the New England coast.	The area was protected to safeguard an ecosystem of deep sea corals three species of whale and an endangered species of sea turtle the Kemps ridley.	Declared by President George W Bush in 2009 and expanded by Obama in 2014 the monument covers 480000 square miles in marine areas to the south and west of Hawaii.	True
That has all kind of consequences both locally for this region for the animals and the people who live here as well as globally Max Holmes a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska told the New York Times.	Holmes led a team of scientists in July to take permafrost cores sediment and water samples from the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge to better understand how thawing permafrost affects the landscape and how much and what mix of greenhouse gases are released.	In order to know how much is lost you have to know how much is there Sue Natali a Woods Hole scientist and permafrost expert told the New York Times.	As global temperatures rise scientists are trying to determine the likely speed and scale of the melting of Alaskas permafrost.	When permafrost melts microbes convert carbon to carbon dioxide causing even more warming.	False
As they see it the problem is the one that Zinke and other administration officials refuse to acknowledge.	They dont want to be informed.	At a conservative event in Steamboat Springs Colorado on Friday Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke pounced on the opportunity to blast his critics including the environmental terrorists he blames for wildfires in the West.	And they dont want to expand their paradigm and look at the actual facts.	As HuffPost reported last week the administration appears to be using the disaster in California as an opportunity to push partisan policy.	False
The people have been heard and will continue to be heard Brune said.	I pledged to take action and today I am keeping that promise he said.	Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club released a statement saying that millions of Americans concerned about the dangers of offshore drilling will not be drowned out regardless of the oil lobbys influence over Trump.	Greenpeace USAs senior climate and energy campaigner Diana Best also released a statement condemning Trumps executive order.	On Thursday night Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke briefed the press on the contents of the executive order.	True
We'll pass a win the solutions we need.	The group urged her to step aside if she is unable to mandate such a plan.	We're running out of time to act.	We can embrace the energy of activism to move our partys goals forward.	Pelosis office in a statement shared by Ocasio Cortez on Twitter expressed support for the activists and said that she has recommended reinstating the Select Committee on Climate Change a special climate change committee that was dissolved by Republicans in 2011.	False
In the 14 months he's been the nation's top environmental rulemaker the former Oklahoma attorney general who sued the EPA more than a dozen times has rolled back the Clean Power Plan rescinded the Waters of the U.S. rule and helped convince the president to back out of the Paris Accord on climate change among a number of changes.	This is a backhanded way of weakening the most important and sacrosanct provision of theclean Air Act and he's nodoing it through any normal legislative process said Bill Becker former executive director of the National Association of Clean Air Agencies which represents state regulators.	Another would permit the EPA to discount many studies used as the basis for air quality standards for a lack of transparency because those analyses use individual health datathat cant be disclosed because they're protected under federal privacy laws.	Read More Assailed as tool of industry EPA administrator Pruitt affirms importance of science Read More Exclusive EPA's Pruitt vows to continue rolling back rules despite alarming climate report Read More Scott Pruitt on a mission to change the climate of the EPA The directive comes at a time when the EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has been under increasing bipartisan fire on Capitol Hill for a number of management missteps spending decisions and potential ethical conflicts.	This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters.	False
ORourke the former Texas congressman made climate change the focus of his first major policy announcement unveiling the plan ahead of a campaign stop meeting with scientists at the iconic Yosemite National Park in California.	The greatest threat we face which will test our country our democracy every single one of us is climate change ORourke said in a statement.	The bill will be funded with the revenues generated by structural changes to the tax code that ensure corporations and the wealthiest among us pay their fair share and that we finally end the tens of billions of dollars of tax breaks currently given to fossil fuel companies ORourkes legislative proposal states.	Environmental group the League of Conservation Voters on Monday praised ORourkes plan saying that it offered the kind of leadership we need from the next president.	The plan lays out a series of executive actions that would reverse the energy dominance policies of President Donald Trump who has been rolling back environmental regulation to increase domestic fossil fuels production.	True
I will take a balanced approach to governing.	You have members who have been in our caucus and who will be coming into our caucus that want to see that happen she added.	That committee Aird acknowledged would enable the House to take a proactive role in oversight of the states utility monopolies.	You have in my opinion a Commonwealth that wants to see that.	Having gender equality public safety LGBTQ equality gun safety those are the things we should be able to accomplish regardless of whos in charge Only taking care of those things is such a cheap cop out for what a party should stand for.	False
The primary cause of human driven climate change is also targeted with the term reduce greenhouse gases blacklisted in favor of build soil organic matter increase nutrient use efficiency.	On 16 February a staffer named Tim Hafner write to Bramblett I would like to know correct terms I should use instead of climate changes and anything to do with carbon ...	A colleague advises that the issue be determined in a phone call.	Please visit with your staff and make them aware of this shift in perspective within the executive branch.	To think that federal agency staff who report about the air water and soil that sustains the health of our nation must conform their reporting with the Trump administrations anti science rhetoric is appalling and dangerous for America and the greater global community.	True
But the test of these election promises will be in how theyre implemented.	Thats why Tuesdays results are a big deal for Virginia voters who want the state to do more to limit climate change.	Candidates like Joshua Cole who won the election for Virginias 28th House District campaigned on environmental action including upgrading infrastructure to make it more resilient and deploying clean energy.	Ralph Northam to fulfill his long thwarted ambition of bringing Virginia into the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative RGGI a compact among nine East Coast states to cap and trade greenhouse gas emissions credits.	Young Virginia voters said climate change was a top tier concern.	True
In a video message Brazilian novelist Paulo Coelho offered an apology to France for what he called Bolsonaros hysteria saying the Brazilian government had resorted to insults to dodge responsibility for the Amazon fires.	The kids are affected the most.	Not just our children.	Schneider an associate professor in the geography department said fire is commonly used by people to clear land for cultivation and the actual area burned this year must be measured for an accurate comparison with damage in past years.	But for now more immediate consequences of the raging flames were becoming clear.	True
The eyes of all future generations are upon you.	Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act then you would be evil.	But the young people are starting to understand your betrayal.	So a 50 risk is simply not acceptable to us we who have to live with the consequences.	And if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you.	False
We are appreciative that each of you has an important point of view and you should know that we are taking the time to understand your concerns he said.	The thrust of the text argues Prof John Walsh chief scientist at the University of Alaska's International Arctic Research Center actually echoes the approach of the Obama administration.	Although the logic of the statement insists that human activity is causing climate change the word human is not actually present.	We're going to work to make the right decision for the United States.	They signed an agreement which stated there was a need for urgent global action.	True
What is being done here is an atrocity against us.	Opposition MPs have said the raging infernos are a crime against humanity and blamed his policies for fuelling the blazes.	Mr Bolsonaro largely ignored the issue at first and even attempted to blame environmental charities accusing them of lighting the fires.	Environmentalists and academics have blamed the Brazilian government under far right President Jair Bolsonaro for a sharp increase in Amazon deforestation.	Camila Veiga of the Brazilian Association of NGOs said The fires are the consequence of a policy of environmental devastation of support for agribusiness of increasing pastures.	False
Regeneration International a sustainable farming nonprofit organized the missive with the climate justice group Sunrise Movement.	South Bend Indiana MayorPete Buttigieg vowed to support farmers by paying them to capture carbon.	Sen. Elizabeth Warren D Mass.	The letter was signed by more than 500 individual farms and 50 organizations representing close to 10000 members.	called for breaking up agriculture monopolies as part of her broad rural platform.	True
EVIL' His plan which he is putting forward in a House resolutioninvolves a number of planks including revisitingglobal trade and intellectual property policies to create an international marketplace fair to American innovators.	The question for America is pretty simple either we want a bunch of bureaucrats in Washington telling us what we cant do or we empower American innovators to unlock things that we can do the Florida congressman said at a press conference in front of the Capitol building.	I didn't come to Congress to argue with a thermometer and I think that more of my colleagues need to realize that the science of global warming is irrefutable he said.	Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Andrew Wheeler was asked in January at his confirmation hearing if he believed warnings from scientists about the threats of climate change.	Traditionally Republicans have been more skeptical about mans influence on the climate.	True
The people believe them.	The Illinois based group which hasties to the fossil fuel billionaires who run Koch Industries boasted in July that the White House reached out for help identifying scientists for these debates.	Todays climate priests tell people they must cut out their CO2 emissions and pay penances to other nations like China to save our climate.	Thats the first assumption the blue team makes and they have to prove that thats true he said.	I would go right down to the core starting with the question How much do human emissions increase atmospheric carbon dioxide?	True
So the basis of all previous disagreements stems from who gets access to what.	Why is the difference so important?	Sunday's agreement goes some way to settling this dispute.	But the arrival on the scene of new countries complicated this issue with ensuing claim and counterclaim.	The Caspian Sea's disputed legal status was also a risk factor for the environment as no enforcement would have been possible to deal with a major oil spill or other pollution incident in disputed waters.	False
Wall Street Journal Talal Ansari Harvey Weinstein says he should receive thanks and recognition for helping women in Hollywood advance their careers.	This story is part of a group of stories called Vox Sentences is your daily digest for whats happening in the world.	Terah Lawyer program coordinator for the Homecoming Project speaking to the impact of the project Watch this What makes Delhis air so deadly How Indias air quality plummeted and why its a danger to the public.	YouTube Christina Thornell and Mac Schneider How a denial of tenure at Harvard became a national controversy Healthcare.gov glitches almost ruined the end of open enrollment.	NBC29 CJ Paschall Another potential issue that is concerning researchers is the obfuscation of the data due to the new policy of differential privacy that is designed to protect individual responses.	False
And so weve been here before and we have a blueprint of doing this before.	Ocasio Cortez the democratic socialist expected to become the next U.S. representative for New Yorks 14th Congressional District likened climate change to the existential threat posed by Nazi Germany and the Axis.	Climate scientists tend to agree.	In a Gallup poll last month just 1 percent of Americans including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats chose environmentpollution as the countrys most important problem from a list of dozens of issues.	Still the policy seems far off at best.	True
Event attributionthe ability to link a given phenomenon to manmade global warmingis exceedingly speculative at best and completely unreliable at worst even according to true believers.	At a meeting of climate scientists at Oxford in 2012 one participant argued that given the insufficient observational data and the coarse and mathematically imperfect climate models used to generate attribution claims they are unjustifiably speculative basically unverifiable and better not made at all.	If attributing changes in migratory patterns of songbirds to global warming after a mere 12 years of observation strikes readers as highly suspicious thats probably because it is.	They are meant primarily not to inform but to exhort and to put pressure on policy makers to coerce human behavior change in accordance with climate change theory.	Nature Magazine felt compelled to conclude with unusual modesty that better models are needed before exceptional events can be reliably linked to global warming.	True
By using this alternative approach we are able to highlight where there are operational risks.	Lawmakers pointing to President Donald Trump's skepticism about climate change and his administration's steady rollback of measures meant to mitigate the impacts of global warming were scathing.	Former Secretary James Mattis recognized and affirmed this fact.	And Rep. Jim Langevin a Rhode Island Democrat who sits on the House Armed Services Committee said he was deeply disappointed.	Those omissions are just one reason lawmakers greeted the Congressionally mandated report with eviscerating criticism on Friday.	False
Site owners are ultimately liable for cleanup costs but a taxpayer funded trust fund is in place when sites must be addressed quickly are abandoned or when owners dont have the resources.	The cost of cleaning up a site depends on a variety of factors including the extent of contamination and state cleanup standards.	At some point such a deep cut makes any agency effectively non responsive Thomas said.	But state officials environmental activists and public health advocates warn that the size of the cut carries great risk considering groundwater is the source of drinking water for nearly half of all Americans.	Ben Thomas a former tank inspector and state regulator in Alaska who now consults with private operators on meeting the inspection rules said cutting the program would hurt businesses that have come to appreciate the heavy stick of enforcement for bad players and the general community outreach.	False
While the Supreme Court has concluded that EPA is obligated to regulate greenhouse gases this administration has no intention of following the law said McCarthy who led the EPA when the Clean Power Plan was completed.	The Obama administration's cost benefits analysis of the Clean Power Plan was highly uncertain in multiple areas Bowman said vowing that the Trump administration will present a range of scenarios to the public in a robust open and transparent way.	Liz Perera climate policy director for the Sierra Club said repealing the Clean Power Plan is about one thing and one thing only helping corporate polluters profit.	Repealing the Clean Power Plan without a timeline or a commitment to propose a rule to reduce carbon pollution isn't a step forward it's a wholesale retreat from EPA's legal scientific and moral obligation to address the threats of climate change' said former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy.	The Clean Power Plan represented an unlawful attempt to transform the nation's power grid ... and raise costs on American consumers said Hal Quinn president and CEO of the National Mining Association.	True
This is just one more foolhardy move by a misguided administration that will be judged harshly by future generations said David Doniger senior strategic director of the Climate Clean Energy program at the Natural Resources Defense Council.	EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler a former coal industry lobbyist echoed that argument in announcing the proposed rule change.	This would ease an Obama era rule that was a central target in critics' accusations of a war on coal.	Today's proposal is nothing more than another thoughtless attempt by the Trump Administration to prop up their backwards and false narrative about reviving coal at the expense of science public safety and reality said Mary Anne Hitt senior director of Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign.	By replacing onerous regulations with high yet achievable standards we can continue America's historic energy production keep energy prices affordable and encourage new investments in cutting edge technology that can then be exported around the world said Wheeler.	True
In December 2009 the islands stalled talks atUnited Nations Climate Change ConferenceinCopenhagen fearing some other developing countries were not committing fully to binding deals on a reduction in carbon emission their chief negotiator stated Tuvalu is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to climate change and our future rests on the outcome of this meeting.57When the conference failed to reach a binding meaningful agreement Tuvalus representative Ian Fry said It looks like we are being offered30 pieces of silverto betray our people and our future Our future is not for sale.	Asrecently as last year anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu pop.	This new category of refugee needs to find a place in international agreements.	We need to better anticipate support requirements similar to those of people fleeing other unviable situations.	In his speech Fry claimed man made global warming to be currently the greatest threat to humanity and ended with an emotional the fate of my country rests in your hands.59 Tuvalus plightalso formed part of the basis for arguably the most hysterical fake news claim in the history of climate alarmism the UNs prediction that by the end of 2010 climate change would have created 50 million environmental refugees.	True
Gore asked.	Recentlyhe said that the global warming fight was in the same vein as great moral causes of humanity in the past like the Civil Rights cause of the 60s and abolition.	James Ooker Eskridge is the mayor of a town on an island disappearing in the Chesapeake Bay but rather than see it as evidence of global warming he used it to shut down Al Gores narrative that the seas are rising because of climate change.	It wasnt clear if he addressed the seawall construction to save the island.	Our island is disappearing he explained but its because of erosion and not because of sea level rising unless we get a seawall we will lose our island.	True
Dr. Chris Brierley UCL Geography lead author said The possibility that humans could have had a stabilising influence on the environment has significant implications.	We contest the common narrative that past human environment interactions must always be one of over exploitation and degradation.	Previous studies have put the blame for the collapse of the 'Green Sahara' onto these nomads who have often been marginalised in history but this latest studies dispels that myth.	The model found that the 'Green Sahara' should have collapsed earlier than it did.	The fact that societies practising 'pastoralism' persisted in this region for so long and invested both economically and ideologically in the local landscape does not support the scenario of over exploitation.	False
I would love to understand this logic.	Somehow government run healthcare family sustainable wages paid leave and affordable housing are also required for a clean economy the writer wrote.	This is honesty sp about how Democrats would micromanage private life.	If a bunch of GOPers plotted to forge a fake Democratic bill showing how bonkers the party is they could not have done a better job.	Cows produce methane why alarmists want to get rid of livestock Stressel wrote.	False
Master will be working on a wide range of civil and criminal investigations and enforcement matters including public corruption complex civil litigation Eric Soufer a spokesman for Schneiderman told WSJ.	Schneidermans decision to hire Master may indicate the crusading AG plans to flood Trump and his administration with legal filings subpoenas and lawsuitsThe Wall Street Journal reported.	Schneiderman hired Howard Master a prosecutor who served under an Obama appointed U.S. attorney to focus on corruption cases involving the Trump administration.Masters primary responsibility according to Schneidermans office will be investigating and possibly prosecuting the Trump administration for possible civil rights abuses.	Schneidermanhas made fighting what he calls man made global warming a crucial part of his duties as New Yorkstop law office.	The coalition of states argued in a statement the delay would waste the substantial resources already expended in this litigation according to a statement from the group.	True
Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a not for profit group promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency especially when it comes to climate changing carbon emissions.	Lakely the Heartland spokesman responded that he had shared the article with colleagues asking them to jump to your aide sic and defend this position.	Its not clear from the email however who initiated the attempt to rally conservatives for the public hearing.	It demonstrates the agencys dedication to advancing President Trumps agenda of environmental stewardship and regulatory certainty he said.	True
Like this story?	But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment.	At around the same time his campaign cautioned voters not to turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines an ironic coincidence or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event?	Before Bidens eye exploded the audience had been raking him over the coals for a scheduled fundraiser the following night at the home of a natural gas executive.	Viewers called him out for rambling incoherent answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry.	True
She said in a statement that unlike Pruitt Wheeler understands the mission of the EPA and acts in accordance with ethical standards.	Wheelers long experience in public service demonstrates his integrity in serving EPAs mission she said.	During his time as acting administrator Andrew Wheeler has been seen as a thoughtful leader who understands the need for sensible environmental policies said Michelle Bloodworth the groups president and CEO.	chairman of the Senate environment committee called Wheeler uniquely qualified to lead EPA and said that under Wheeler the agency is putting forward proposals that both protect our environment and allow the countrys economy to flourish.	However the policies he has supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	True
I select my piece.	Dressed up for the part in chef's whites traditional hat and red apron the sustainable conservation expert is perfect for the role.	I'm not entirely convinced.	I ask.	I'm hovering in a makeshift kitchen watching one of Italy's most eminent marine biologists gleefully playing chef.	True
We will no longer accept this injustice.	Now we will make our voices heard.	We demand justice for all past current and future victims of the climate crisis and so we are rising up read an open letter that the activists published on the Guardian claiming they would be protesting on every continent on Friday.	RELATEDThousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests We have the right to live our dreams and hopes the letter continues.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False
That is the scale of the ambition that this movement is going to require.	Speakers included 350.org founder Bill McKibben The Green Collar Economy author Van Jones activist and Big Little Lies star Shailene Woodley climate scientist Brenda Ekwurzel activist and musician Xiuhtezcatl Martinezand MayorDale Rossof deep red Georgetown Texas whose pragmatic embrace of newly cheap renewable energy has made him a poster boy for how Republicans could quit climate change denialism.	This is going to be the Great Society the moon shot the civil rights movement of our generation she said.	Rep. elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. who has made championing a so called Green New Deal her first priority since arriving in Washington emerged as the fiercest voice on the panel Monday.	Despite stark policy differences with his chief rival in the primaries former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton supported fracking and raisedtwice as much from the oil and gas industryas her Republican opponent climate change remained a policy backwater in the election.	False
Another problem which compounds the first is that they get greedy.	But sometimes it takes a stunt to expose an even bigger one.	They might also think they missed a crucial plot point if the protagonists proposed a sweeping government effort to stop the meteor and then when given the opportunity to vote for it voted present in protest.	First they are their own worst enemy when it comes to maintaining credibility.	Following Hollywood convention once you got past the part where the maverick scientist or precocious kid discovering it struggles to convince the world about the threat youd expect the president or the military to leap into action.	True
CPP and the other climate regulations imposed by the Obama administration were justified based on the EPAs determination carbon dioxide poses a threat to human health and the environment a concept known as the endangerment finding.	Relying on unsubstantiated projections produced by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change the EPA determined carbon dioxide emissions from cars and industry threaten human welfare.	H. Sterling Burnett Ph.D. hburnett is a research fellow on energy and the environment at The Heartland Institute a nonpartisan nonprofit research center headquartered in Arlington Heights Illinois.	In truth this presents a problem for Trump.	The EPAs decision was not unexpected.	False
But the researchers took great pains to test for contamination account for the exposure to heat and pressure and extrapolate back the original ratios Pinti said.	And they say their work could be relevant to places beyond our own planet that may have harsher environments than today's Earth.	He was also not involved in the study but supervised one of the co authors Pauline Mjean during her PhD in Canada.	The researchers write that the ratio found in one sample provides the oldest evidence for autotrophs organisms that can produce their own food either through photosynthesis or by using inorganic compounds such as sulphur in their environment.	There's also the possibility that the rocks could have become contaminated in the nearly four billion years after they were formed.	False
We need a vision and a plan to not willful ignorance.	Unacceptable and immoral.	Ignoring the overwhelming evidence only sets us back further in addressing this serious threat said Sen. Jeanne Shaheen D N.H..	The reports lead researcher had earlier accused the Trump administration of attempting to censor the study by removing all mentions of human caused climate change.	Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt was reportedly an advocate of holding red teamblue teamdebates to publicly critique climate science but that idea wasultimately blocked by the White House reported The New York Times in March.	False
Jerry Brown in a series of tweets.	I cannot speak to that.	Trump made the dubious claim that readily available water is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean for environmental reasons and blamed California Gov.	Kate Poole the senior director of the Natural Resources Defense Councils NRDC water division said its hard to know where to begin in responding to Trumps tweets because theyre fundamentally wrong on many levels.	Yahoo News reached out to Scott McLean a deputy chief at the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection Cal Fire to get the agencys take on Trumps claims and whats actually happening in the efforts to stop the Mendocino Complex and other wildfires.	True
There is no excuse for failure.	Mr President start listening to the people and the scientists not the greed of the fossil fuel industry Sanders said at a rally on Capitol Hill where he was flanked by environmental advocates and two of his Democratic colleagues Senators Jeff Merkley of Oregon who authored the bill and Ed Markey of Massachusetts.	At the rally Markey said Trumps actions were precisely why hundreds of thousands of people felt compelled to take to the streets.	But the bill called the 100 by 50 Act is unlikely to be considered by a Republican controlled Congress where many GOP lawmakers are still unwilling to acknowledge the science behind global warming and contribution of human activity.	This is not a red or a blue issue he said.	True
Mr Dreher says that the ESA was designed by Congress to say that the value of life on earth is priceless and that politicians should not have to decide whether it is too expensive to prevent extinction.	If we made those decisions you can see under different administrations we would end up protecting nothing.	Who knows what a frog is worth?	Wolves which were re introduced in the lower 48 states have faced criticism from ranchers and farmers who argue that they have impacted their livelihood by killing their livestock.	The US government says they want the language clarified to make it clear that it extends only as far as wildlife officials can reasonably determine that both the future threats and the species' response to those threats are probable.	True
As EPA renews its commitment to human health and clean air land and water our website needs to reflect the views of the leadership of the agency said JP Freire an associate administrator for public affairs.	In an op ed piece for the Guardian published on Saturday Sanders made an economic case for a focus on industries meant to ameliorate the effects of climate change rather than those which contribute to it.	The EPA is currently led by Scott Pruitt a former Oklahoma attorney general who has denied that carbon dioxide causes global warming.	Honored to join Indigenous leaders and native peoples as they fight for climate justice DiCaprio tweeted.	We want to eliminate confusion Freire said by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how were protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law.	True
Environmental Protection Agency chief Andrew Wheeler a former coal industry lobbyist signed a replacement rule that gives states leeway in deciding whether to require efficiency upgrades at existing coal plants.	Wheeler said coal fired power plants remained essential to the power grid something that opponents deny.	There's no denying 'the fact that fossil fuels will continue to be an important part of the mix' he said.	'Americans want reliable energy that they can afford' he said at a news conference.	The trend comes despite President Donald Trump pledging to 'bring back' the coal industry which has been hit hard by competition from cheaper natural gas and renewable energy.	True
Even a number of major energy companies have come forward in support of charging businesses for the amount of carbon they release into the atmosphere.	Initiative 1631 for example was supposed to serve as a bellwether for how similar legislation could fare across the country.	The idea that a carbon fee is the way out of this mess is something we need to be pushing back on.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	False
The Sludge an investigative website reported last December that ORourkes Senate campaign failed to comply with a pledge not to knowingly accept contributions of more than 200 from the oil and gas industry.	Literally the future of the world depends on us.	Hes going to have to take a pretty strong stand.	This helped fuel accusations that ORourke is more of a fossil fuel ally than his lofty rhetoric might imply.	Some will criticise the Green New Deal for being too bold or being unmanageable.	True
The new report adds weight and detail to a warning put out by the same panel of scientists last fall in which they sounded the alarm about the inadequacy of the pledges countries have made so far to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.	Controlling emissions from agriculture is also a food security issue.	And the problem is getting more severe.	The U.N. panel is the latest group of experts to grapple with a global conundrum how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture deforestation and other land use without creating food shortages or displacing people whose livelihoods rely on practices that are unsustainable globally.	Together those activities generate about a third of human greenhouse gas emissions including more than 40 of methane.	True
Sometimes the pot calls the kettle black.	Even Milton Friedman understood the existence of market externalities the fact that damage to our environment is not accounted for in the free market without placing some sort of price signal.	They end up helping certain wealthy people to the disadvantage of the less fortunate.	On the face of it that admission may seem like a shift coming from a man who with his brother David bankrolled a conservative movement bent on hacking away environmental regulations and helped transform the GOP into the only major political party in the developed world to deny the overwhelming evidence of manmade global warming.	But in this case the kettle is filled with a solution to clean up the greasy mess left behind by the pot.	True
And while historically nuclear power companies have built their plantsand dumped the wastein poor communities of color Booker believes it doesnt have to be that way He points to agreements struck between local and national governments in Canada and Europe as a model for a community process to deal with the waste.	But Booker argues that rebates and investments in poor communities could help solve that problem.	Among the 2020 presidential candidates Cory Booker stands out for his record of advocating for the people who bear the brunt of pollution and toxic waste.	As part of the wide ranging conversation about climate change he explainedhow he squares hissupport for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities.	Indeed critics of a carbon tax worry that it would be regressive hurting the poor more than the rich.	True
To get rid of the Clean Power Plan without any idea of what to do that could be better is malfeasance on the part of the EPA administrator.	Scientists say the frequency and severity of natural disasters like these are linked to climbing global temperatures.	These people have either no sense or a very sophisticated sense of irony to be doing this at this timehe added referring to the Trump administration.	The next few weeks proved Mother Nature to be a cruel instructor.	On Tuesday afternoon Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt who sued to halt the plan last year when he was Oklahomas attorney general released a proposal to eliminate the policy without any replacement leaving the country without a national strategy to adapt to global warming.	False
The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel On Climate Changes IPCC newly released climate report once again found little to no evidence global warming caused many types of extreme weather events to increase.	But dont expect to hear that from many other media outlets especially those that often cite individual weather events as evidence of man made warming.	Delegates are expected to make further commitments to implement the Paris climate accord that calls for limiting future warming below 2 degrees Celsius by 2100.	For example The Washington Posts write up of the IPCCs report focused on the mainline findings namely that the world is woefully off target to keep future global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	Pielke pointed out this inconvenient data.	True
Solomon proposed that while feigning interest in global warming is politically expedient most people are unconvinced that it poses a real problemunlike the real pollution that is killing millions.	In an essay in Fridays Financial Post Solomon said that most signatories are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios.	The European Commissioner insisted that the key to addressing the problem of climate change and avoiding a point of no return is to be found in political will.	We are here today because our climate is under threat Mr. Vella said.	In the Popes written message to the meeting conveyed by the Vaticans Secretary of State Cardinal Pietro Parolin the pontiff expressed his concern for water conservation around the world as well as his fervent desire that the threat posed by climate change to our brothers and sisters in the most vulnerable countries will find prompt and effective responses.	True
They need to be more thoughtful.	Jerry Brown and Lt. Gov.	There is no desire on the part of governors they know their role there's not a desire to get involved in foreign policy Pattison said.	This really is about interaction economic development.	On the political side a lack of engagement strength and leadership from Washington and the White House Garcetti said in an interview.	True
Abbott himself lost his job as Australias prime minister at least in part because he was found guilty of wrongthink onclimate change which he once famously described as crap.The man who replaced him as prime minister Malcolm Turnbull unfondly known as the Honourable Member for Goldman Sachs is himself a leading tentacle of the Green Blob.	When the wind doesnt blow and the sun doesnt shine the power doesnt flow.	Even those politicians who might nurture doubts in private almost never express them in public.	Some of us knew this already.	Butyou rarely hear itsotrenchantly expressed by a former world leader as it was in London yesterday by Aussie ex Prime Minister Tony Abbott in ahard hitting must read speech for the Global Warming Policy Foundation.	False
Like this story?	In both cases the company resolved to hire new management and overhaul its safety procedures.	Last year a hose malfunction sprayed a worker with a toxic solution sending him fleeing to an emergency decontamination shower.	Despite boasting that no company is more focused on nuclear fuel reliability Westinghouses South Carolina factory has seen its share of safety foul ups in the past.	Its a pretty big concern if you have an unknown quantity of material containing uranium leaching into the groundwaterlocal anti nuclear activist Tom Clements told The State.	True
Among their demands were the passage of the Green New Deal additional measures to protect indigenous peoples land and a broad push toward climate justice.	pic.twitter.comJhjVBr1hU3 Sam Sweeney September 23 2019 Mondays protests come on the heels of a worldwide climate strike on Friday a series of protests in multiple countries that some called the largest climate rally ever.	A press release from the events organizers said that Mondays protesters included labor organizations the anti war group Code Pink Black Lives Matter and the environmental justice organization Rising Tide North America.	The organizers said their goal was to shut down the center of decision making in the U.S. to demand the government immediately ends fossil fuel production and enforces a swift and just transition to renewable energy.	Ahead of the days United Nations Climate Action Summit in New York activists participated in Shut Down D.C. a coordinated act of civil disobedience designed to draw attention to the global climate crisis.	False
Caught in a pile of lies the campaign responded with a strikingly similar excuse To the degree it wasn't attributed it was an oversight or inadvertent Biden's 1988 campaign aide told the New York Times.	Like this story?	Biden's habit of plagiarism dates back to his first presidential campaign in 1988 when he lifted a popular speech from a UK politician that mischaracterized his own family background implyinghe was descended from coal miners and the first in his family to attend university.	The candidate complained the fuss over his plagiarism was much ado about nothing and blamed rival campaigns for blowing the issue out of proportion.	Compounding the gaffe the Carbon Capture Coalition's membership includes the country's largest fossil fuel companies not such strange bedfellows for Biden who received a D grade from Greenpeace last week largely due to his lack of environmental policy but less than ideal for a candidate trying to reinvent himself as green.	False
They can sense that we are making an impact.	None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president None What my journey into homelessness taught me	Something must have changed in the debate that so many young people are speaking up and so many young people are being targeted Thunberg told Yahoo News in response to the mockery her movement has received from leaders like Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin.	Now what does he want?	Theres a younger generation of conservatives in this state that arent as much in denial Republican Sen. Tom Lee who chairs the Committee on Infrastructure and Security told the Herald.	True
... We have to do it ourselves.	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	In a video posted to social media on Monday New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio again directly blamed climate change for 2012's deadySuperstormSandy a contention that lacks scientific support and touted his plan to spend 10billionto fortify and protectLower Manhattan against future storms.	This is the core issue we all must face as aggressively as humanly possible.	City Council member Margaret Chin who represents the area said amore resilient future cannot be paid for by private real estate development that would destroy the waterfront neighborhoods that we are trying to protect.	False
Merkley thanked him and then let him have it.	During a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing on Wednesday Senator Jeff Merkley D OR took EPA appointee William Wehrum to task over his inability to acknowledge that greenhouse gases do have a major impact on temperature.	The truly maddening part though is that Merkley showed the American people that its not just ignorance its intentional ignorance.	Merkley continued For the rest of the questioning Merkley continued to show just how woefully ignorant the officials in charge of the Environmental Protection Agency are.	They refuse to see it accept being ignorant and continue their refusal to acknowledge that climate change is real and it will have and already has had devastating effects on the planet.	True
Sanders has also drawn heat recently for his uncertain stance on reparations for the descendants of slaves and for quietly hiring a journalist who frequently attacked his 2020 opponents on Twitter as an adviser.	Once dubbedthe celebrities choice in offset providers NativeEnergy provides third party verification of how its offsets are used and boasts a high score as a benefit corporation a sort of LEED certification of for profit companies that pay employees decent wages and provide measurable value to society.	Carbon offsets represent a drop in the bucket on an issue that requires unprecedented systemic change to avert climate disaster.	In 2007 former Iowa Gov.	Though founded and run by a former utility lawyer the company as its name suggests transferred a majority stake in its ownership to a consortium of Native American tribes in 2005.	True
Rep. Gerry Connolly D VA said Democrats should focus on the practical and the opportunistic in the short term while working toward big picture aspirational goals in the long term.	Trump may believe in climate change now but he remains convinced that scientists who see a human role in the process have a very big political agenda.	While he has backed away from a 2012 claim that the concept was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing noncompetitive he is now convinced that somethings changing and itll change back again according to aninterviewhe gave with 60 Minutes on Sunday.	Referencing an uncle who was a professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology whom he never spoke to about climate change as apparent proof of his scientific bona fides Trump told the Associated Press that he has a natural instinct for science and that the climate goes back and forth back and forth.	Meanwhile he doesnt want to sacrifice the economic well being of our country for something that nobody really knows.	True
But many of those expressing outrage including world famous Hollywood actors and businessmen typically fly around the world in private jets that expel mind boggling amounts of carbon dioxide the exact substance climate alarmists say is the cause of climate change.	Can we really be sure that these people take carbon emissions seriously?	They examined the lives of billionaire businessmen Richard Branson Elon Musk and Bill Gates in addition to Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Hillary Clinton.	You can tell by the outraged looks on their faces and the purple rhetoric Carlson said.	To answer that question Carlson said his team compared what the progressives say to how they live.	True
What is doing this to us?	What can we do?	It also includes a Message for Adults Acid rain is a problem that affects us all The message to spread however is that we can all make a difference and help reduce the presence of acid rain.	Can you help us?	they all ask.	False
So anyone who cares about extinctions and biodiversity needs to care about the future of coral reefs.	By killing seabirds this study revealed rats disrupt a healthy ecosystem that depends on the seabird droppings which fertilise the reefs surrounding the island.	Rats decimate seabird populations in turn decimating the volume of bird droppings a natural coral fertiliser.	He and his team were able to track the source of those nutrients back to the fish that seabirds fed on by analysing algae and sponges growing on the reef.	The islands with no rats are full of birds they're noisy the sky is full and they smell because the guano the birds are depositing back on the island is very pungent.	True
RFS founder and former commissioner Phil Koperberg told the Sydney Morning Herald People are nervous and they have a right to be... the worst is yet to come.	PM Scott Morrison has dismissed accusations linking the crisis to his government's policies.	One woman displayed the charred remains of her home outside Parliament on which she had written Morrison your climate crisis destroyed my home.	People who cannot defend their property from approaching fires have been told they should leave immediately.	The severity of the blazes so early in the fire season has caused alarm and prompted calls for greater action to tackle climate change.	False
I believe man plays a part in it but not to the extent that others have been talking about that's what me and Donald Trump were talking about Eskridge said.	Florida Congresswoman Ileana Ros Lehtinen one of a handful of Republicans to publicly declare a belief in climate change said she has a strategy for getting fellow Republicans to think of solutionsI've found that the best way ... is to not dwell on the causes she said in an email.	That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels.	Tangier residents are happy with the attention but believe their problem is simpler.	Former Vice President Al Gore a prominent Democratic climate activist had given the same speech to islanders three days earlier.	False
But he didnt take advantage of that opportunity.	Having missed the chance to seek actual reforms we now get a militaristic and hasty response to a predictable stress.	The President had willing partners in Congress and could have worked on immigration border security DREAMers and all that Joseph Majkut director of climate policy at the Niskanen Center a libertarian think tank said in an email.	Climate change is contributing to make nations unstable both nations in our neighborhood and others abroad said Femia whose Washington based policy institute includes former top national security advisers.	That worsens the violence that many cite as a main reason for fleeing northward.	False
What risks do protesters take?	Other risks lurk at the Garzweiler site.	Azna Lecuyer of the French branch of Ende Gelaende agrees that we feel a passion for actions of civil disobedience especially among young people.	Tadzio Mueller a German organiser of the movement argues that massively breaking the rules ... is the only thing that works to prevent the status quo in the face of climate chaos.	The group's online action consensus says In view of the urgency of the climate crisis we consider it necessary and appropriate to go one step further from public protest to civil disobedience.	True
Yet BECCS plays a very real role in todays climate policy arena Pielke wrote by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and 90s.	University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. recentlypublished a paperon the problems with the UNs use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord.	California Democratic Gov.	Brown is right in one sense.	What Brownorderedis not just reducing emissions but instead implied sucking more greenhouse gas out of the air than human activities in his state put up and not just for electricity.	True
The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency especially when it comes to climate changing carbon emissions.	Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a non profit promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	It's not clear from the email however who initiated the attempt to rally conservatives for the public hearing.	Lakely the Heartland spokesman responds he's shared the article with colleagues asking them to jump to your aide sic and defend this position.	It demonstrates the agency's dedication to advancing President Trump's agenda of environmental stewardship and regulatory certainty he said.	False
About 141 million Americans live with unhealthful levels of air pollution the report says placing them at risk for premature death lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	Soot pollution is deadlier and more of a health hazard than smog causingmore premature deaths and lung cancer the lung association said.	The bad news about air pollutionspread nationwide in thereport Smog and soot choked air is worsening amid heat waves and bigger wildfires as environmental protections are rolled back.	The state would be much worse off without its strict laws on tailpipe pollution and eliminating coal fired power plants.	California's air quality is worsening despite having the strongest environmental regulations in the nation said John Balmes of the University of California San Francisco at a news conference Tuesday.	True
Hes calculating.	He often engages in legal battles against attorneys who sue energy companies over climate change.	A real solution proposed in Washington?	Other analysts shared similar sentiments.	Our society needs to turn dramatically and immediately towards the shared goals of environmental justice broad based prosperity and health.	True
As the CEO of one of Americas historically coal dependent utilities Tom Fanning of the Southern Company says You cant keep waves off the beach.King Canute knew this.	But government is not alone.The private sector where companies are increasingly competing with each other to succeed in the carbon free economy of the future is making Trumps climate denial braggadocio increasingly irrelevant.	And global firms will impact the U.S. climate footprint.	These dont usually get counted in reporting on bottom up climate action but they have a huge positive impact on emissions.	The American political conversation about climate is indeed scary and depressing.	False
Its a matter of survival former Kiribati President Anote Tong said after meeting with former U.S. President Barack Obama that year.	That may come as a shock in light of reports that Pacific Islanders in places like Kiribati are becoming climate refugees because of rising sea levels which many scientists blame on greenhouse gas emissions.	That warning was made in 1988 amid heightened urgency about global warming.	For example Duvat found that land reclamation and causeway construction caused major changes in island land area and configuration not only in urban but also in rural atolls.	Scientists worry that future warming could pose problems for low lying islands many of which are no more than a few feet above the water but other human interventions ocean currents and storms likely exert an even bigger role than climate changes.	True
Climate change is one of the most critical threats facing our nation and world and the secretary of state has a huge responsibility to make sure it is addressed by the global community she said.	This shuffling of the deck chairs will ensure that Washington continues to bring up the rear when it comes to international action to combat dangerous climate change.	Jake Schmidt the international program director at the Natural Resources Defense Council released the following statement Replacing the man from Big Oil with a first class climate denier simply goes from bad to worse.	Though not surprising this is extremely troubling.	Naomi Ages the climate director of Greenpeace USA was similarly perturbed.	False
I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get to that result.	For example California could use vehicle registration rules or control the vehicles that can access state highways she said.	Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward.	The Association of Global Automakers said consumers must be able to afford the cleaner cars that California says are needed to meet its climate goals.	The trade association represents Toyota Honda Motor Co. and other overseas carmakers in the U.S. We have been working with California on intelligent market based approaches to emissions reductions beyond 2025 and we hope that this doesnt signal an abandonment of that position Global Automakers Chief Executive Officer John Bozzella said in a statement.	False
The rules created potentially unduly burdensome requirements for oil and natural gas production operators on the Outer Continental Shelf without meaningfully increasing safety of the workers or protection of the environment says the new 176 page rule which is scheduled in the coming days to be published in the Federal Register before becoming the administrations final policy.	This rule supports the administrations objective of facilitating energy dominance by encouraging increased domestic oil and gas production and reducing unnecessary burdens on stakeholders while ensuring safety and environmental protection the new rule says.	The Interior Departments Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement which was established after the spill in the Gulf of Mexico and regulates offshore oil and gas drilling has finalized a proposal for loosening the regulations as part of President Trumps efforts to ease restrictions on fossil fuel companies and encourage domestic energy production.	Sign up here for Climate Fwd our email newsletter.	WASHINGTON The Trump administration has completed its plan to roll back major offshore drilling safety regulations that were put in place after the Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster in 2010 that killed 11 people and caused the worst oil spill in American history.	True
Jean Su energy director with the Center for Biological Diversitys Climate Law Institute said America is the number one historical contributor to the climate emergency wreaking havoc in burning California the flooded Southeast and the rest of the world.	Local action by itself is not likely to be enough.	The next president must repay this extraordinary climate debt by rapidly moving America to 100 clean energy and financing the decarbonization of the Global South Su said referring to the developing world.	John Kerry and Chuck Hagel president Barack Obamas secretaries of state and defense respectively in a Washington Post op ed called it a dark day for America.	Carl Pope vice chair of the group Americas Pledge said its members who are vowing to keep fighting the climate emergency produce more than half the countrys heat trapping emissions and represent about 70 of the US gross domestic product.	False
Whoever wants legitimacy from us and the legitimacy of the many who went onto the streets will need to deliver now said Sven Giegold a leading candidate for the German Green party that scooped up more than 20 of the vote nationwide an increase of almost 10 compared with 2014.	I think people realize that there are issues you cant solve at the national level he said.	She attributed the result to young peoples fears about global warming.	Armin Laschet the governor of Germanys most populous state North Rhine Westphalia and a member of Chancellor Angela Merkels center right Union bloc called the outcome a wake up call for politics.	Giegold the German Greens lead candidate said voters expect the party to deliver on its environmental pledges not secure powerful posts in the executive European Commission.	False
Others were less accusatory.	According to The Guardian anyone who isn't a fervent believer in man made climate change is to blame for Hurricane Michael even the hurricane's victims.	But don't we have a responsibility to mitigate the next disaster?	Denying science has consequences.	Will the devastation wrought by Michael and all future hurricanes be laid at the feet of science deniers?	True
But there are other less obvious risks.	As with so many climate impacts the report notes that those most at risk include children the elderly and low income communities.	It is affecting all of us no matter where we live.	Along the coasts more severe flooding threatens billions of dollars' worth of property and infrastructure which in turn could affect the economic stability of local governments businesses and the broader economy.	Global Change Research Program.	True
The head of the Environmental Protection Agency has said America has nothing to apologise for on climate change and retains a seat at the negotiating table claiming After all were the United States.	This is not a message to anyone in the world that America should be apologetic of its CO2 position.	For his own part Pruitt acknowledged that global warming is occurring and that human activity contributes to it in some manner.	Well thats up to them right?	But he added Measuring with precision from my perspective the degree of human contribution is very challenging.	True
USA Today also pointed out that California is not the only place where people want more government regulation.	Thats exactly the wrong direction Nilles said.	For natural gas companies its a threat to their existence.	And for some cooks who love to prepare food with flame its an unthinkable loss.	The idea that denying access to natural gas in new homes is necessary to meet emissions reduction goals is false American Gas Association President and CEO Karen Harbert.	False
The report is seen as the main scientific guide for government policymakers on how to implement the 2015 Paris Agreement.	But the report said the efficacy of measures such as planting forests bioenergy use or capturing and storing CO2 were unproven at a large scale and carried some risks.	The report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it said Amjad Abdulla the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	Steps like reflecting incoming solar radiation back into space were not assessed because of the uncertainties about using such technology the report said.	The U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC met last week in Incheon South Korea to finalize the report prepared at the request of governments in 2015 when a global pact to tackle climate change was agreed.	True
The question of unfairness cropped up again and again how the world's worst polluters China and India had no meaningful obligations placed on them by the deal.	Opponents say withdrawing from the accord is an abdication of US leadership on a key global challenge.	I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh not Paris.	Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer called the decision one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st Century because of the huge damage to our economy our environment and our geopolitical standing.	Small island nations whose existence is threatened by rising sea levels were critical of the move.	True
When it comes to advice the agency receives the core concern over the need to avoid conflicts of interest is this Is advice tainted because the entity employing and paying the advisor stands to gain or lose financially from the agency decision that is under advisement?	Pruitt described scientists who received as much as 77 million in grants from the agency while also serving on advisory boards as damaging the perception of independent rule making.	Now instead of independent science guiding the way hired guns for industry will be steering EPA policy on central issues affecting clean air clean water and public health.	Pruitt appointed Paul Gilman as the head of the Board of Scientific Counselors.Gilman currently serves as the chief sustainability officer at the waste management and incinerator company Covanta.He has been a leading advocate for incinerating trash as a source of fuel for electricity.	At a Tuesday afternoon event rolling out the new policy Administrator Scott Pruitt invoked a biblical tale from the book of Joshua in which the pagans are instructed to choose this day whom you will serve either God or the gods of your fathers.	True
It is a high risk project but also one which may have a very high reward at the end said Orheim.	But the 56 year old Zambian South African has a reputation for taking on the impossible after he re floated the giant Costa Concordia cruise ship that capsized in 2012 off the Tuscan island of Giglio killing 32 people one of the world's largest and most complex maritime salvage operations.	There are also questions on how the water from the iceberg will be channelled into the city's distribution system.	Another problem is that there is no guarantee that by the time the iceberg is hauled to Cape Town it will still be able to produce the promised volumes of water.	The idea sounds crazy admits maverick salvage expert Nick Sloane the brains behind the tow an iceberg scheme.	False
Other areas could be designated for economic cooperation and travel.	The NIE regularly updates Koreans about the state of nature in the DMZ through videos it posts on its social media accounts.	Thecreationof the DMZ in 1953 marked a ceasefire in a war that divided Korea and resulted in the deaths of 2.5 million people including more than 36000 American soldiers.	The region should be classified according to value such as key areas with high preservation value and buffer areas.	Previous data has been collected starting in 1974.	True
Unwittingly in conservatives quest for equal treatment of different energy sources they have adopted policies that reinforce governments role in dictating energy outcomes.	Philip Rossetti is a data analyst at the American Action Forum Devin Hartman is electricity policy manager and senior fellow with the R Street Institute.	Conservatives sorely need to define an energy narrative rooted in market principles.	A 2015 Congressional Budget Office report acknowledged that tax credits are less effective at achieving policy goals than alternative market driven policies.	However regulators likely overstated the net benefits of regulations and the Clean Power Plan would have accomplished little at high cost while proving legally vulnerable and politically unstable.	False
This is our chance to decide what that road will look like.	We have a monumental task in front of us says co author Natalie Mahowald from Cornell University but it is not impossible.	However it does make clear the consequences of warming above that level more heat waves more severe rain and snow events higher sea levels damage to agriculture and displacement of millions of people.	But most governments now fear the cost of a global overhaul of the world's energy economy in the short time needed to meet the Paris climate goals.	Climate Report Warns Of Extreme Weather Displacement Of Millions Without Action Some of the world's top climate scientists have concluded that global warming is likely to reach dangerous levels unless new technologies are developed to remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere.	True
Her machine which filters out toxic fumes cost her 300.	The decision by Khurelsukh's cabinet to distribute air purifiers is a very bad decision Davaadalai said.	Worried parents have held protests to press the government to take action.	While most of the pollution comes from stoves in the gers road transport and power plants add to the toxic mix.	But Maria Neira the head of the WHO's public health department said the real solution to protect the lungs and the cardiovascular system was to reduce air pollution and avoid exposure to it.	True
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	There are several dangers that would face the colonists.	But what should happen after that first step?	As the early colonists develop a more robust presence they will then be able to devote more effort to establishing further goals.	It will be essential that we map and evaluate all possible resources that could be useful.	True
But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?	Climate change activists often claim carbon emissions from driving and flying are a significant cause of man made warming.	Even Forbes noted DiCaprio himself is one of those big polluters which diminishes his moral authority to lecture others on reducing their own carbon emissions in March 2016.	During a telethon fundraiser on Sept. 12 for Harvey and Irma relief celebrities like Beyonce linked manmade climate change to the hurricanes.	In 2011 she co wrote a USA Today op ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change.	True
Our health hangs in the balance too.	Its not just the future of the environment thats at stake here.	Ebola demonstrates that even localized dislocation of people and animals can create global risk.	Climate change is a threat multiplier for much broader dislocation accelerating the complex factors that drive people from their homes.	Now the US moves backward.	True
Well I think that both sides have you know their own results from their studies and I appreciate and respect both sides of the science Craft said.	Do you believe there is science that proves that man is not causing climate change?	Asked Do you believe in climate change?	Craft responded I believe there are scientists on both sides that are accurate.	The facts of climate science and the urgency of the climate threat to the US are a nuisance to an administration that has consistently prioritized the demands of the fossil fuel industry to roll back federal policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions.	True
The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	And therein lies the problem.	Bonner R. Cohen Ph.D is a senior policy analyst with the Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow CFACT.	And what constitutes sustainable consumption and production is in the eyes of the beholding bureaucrat empowered either by the administrative regulatory state or by legislation adopted at the behest of deep pocketed special interests.	As the Trump White House continues its cleanup of the mess foreign and domestic left behind by the Obama administration it should toss out a little noticed document that entangles the U.S. in some of the worst schemes ever cooked up by U.N. bureaucrats and their cronies in the global environmental movement.	False
California for example requires automakers to cut greenhouse gas emissions in cars by producing lower emissions vehicles or buying credits from companies like Tesla that make electric vehicles.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	IFO isnt the first research group to conclude electric cars might not reduce carbon dioxide emissions as promised.	Its better read as a warning that new technologies arent a climate change panacea.	True
Concern about rising sea levels was one of many factors that inspired the Paris Agreements goal of limiting the rise of global temperatures.	The group states that although this specific crack was not likely caused by climate change the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves contributes to rising sea levels that threaten coastal cities.	We are watching with bated breath the teamwrote.	The ice is already floating so when the fracture breaks all the way through it will simply start to drift away.	When ice shelves disappear ice can flow faster from the land to the ocean and contribute more quickly to sea level rise Adrian Luckman and Martin OLeary of Project MIDAS wrote in February.	False
Voxs David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points.	Washington Gov.	A forum format with one on one discussions with the candidates could better get at these distinctions forcing candidates to make the affirmative case for their own policies rather than sniping at those from other candidates.	Here is the format The audience will be composed of selected Democrats independents and stakeholders.	CNNs climate change forum has immense potential to illuminate real differences among the candidates and inform the public about the often weedy details of climate policy.	False
The former Montana congressman blamed litigation from radical environmentalists who would rather see forests and communities burn than see a logger in the woods in a USA Todayop edpublished Wednesday.	Most wildfires are caused by humans mostly unintentionally.	Name calling and finger pointing wont change the truth that climate change is exacerbating wildfiresechoedthe Sierra Clubs Athan Manuel.	In California for example humanscaused95 percent of all wildfires with power lines and utility equipment becoming a growing problem.	This has to do with active forest management.RELATED Californias Biggest Utility Continues To Blame Global Warming For Wildfires Started By Its Own Power Lines Wildfire experts tend to see land management and urban growth as prime drivers of wildfires.	True
In this episode the big problem really seems to have been the agricultural burning assistant professor Thomas Smith of the London School of Economics told the BBC.	The longer the exposure the greater the risks.	And of course it's the elderly who suffer the very young and people with pre existing respiratory illnesses like or heart problems.	And you can't underestimate how important agricultural burning is even though people often think only of cars and heavy industry as the causes.	The result is then classified on a scale from good to hazardous.	False
In a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity it is necessary to recall the values of custody of creation the preferential option for the poor and the peace that is built in everyday life including with attention to the care of the common home she said.	The politically incorrect gift highlighted thecost effectivenessand ready availability of fossil fuels which were responsible for powering the industrial revolution throughout the developed world.	I hope we will see more leaders like these 40 Catholic institutions commit because while this decision makes smart financial sense acting collectively to deliver a better future for everybody is also our moral imperative she said.	Christiana Figueres the former UN climate tsar who helped negotiate the Paris climate accord lauded the move as a further sign we are on the way to achieving our collective mission.	The moral clarity of these 40 institutions is a source of deep joy said Toms Insua the director of the Movement.	False
They definitely knew it should have been reported a WRPS employee said.	This fee structure ignores human nature which is to take shortcuts to get the money without any accountability unless they get caught.	After seeing the recent footage of workers dumping the toxic waste at the site state Representative Gerry Pollet who also serves as the executive director of Heart of America Northwest called their actions outrageous.	They knew it was wrong to dump the liquids but they did it anyway.	However WRPS did not report the discharges for nearly a month and a notification from the Department of Ecology shows the company only made the report days after KING emailed WRPS federal and state officials and the Environmental Crimes Unit of the state Office of the Attorney General about the incident.	True
Biden interrupted the girl before she was finished asking By the way did you know Im the guy who did all this?	Read Real Clear Politics it will tell you about how I started this whole thing back in 1987 climate change.	Social media users were quick to criticize Bidens response with some mocking him for saying he had started climate change and others pointing out that his 1987 effort didnt really work out so well.	While he is the first to have a climate bill passed he certainly isnt the first politician to raise the alarm about climate change let alone have started the whole thing.	In 1987 Biden delivered a Senate speech warning of the dangers of global warming and his Global Climate Protection Act called for setting up a task force to plan to tackle the issue.	True
Tony Cox an industry consultant Trump tapped to lead the EPAs Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee argues that the EPAs agencys current standards for evaluating this question does not feature enough causal rigor.	Each of these impacts independently suggests that we are currently allowing too much air pollution and they also cry out for more research that attempts to assess the long term cumulative impact of pollutants that appear to induce cognitive problems throughout the life cycle.	Its true of course that you dont want to do a completely naive associational study and then leap to big policy conclusions from it.	Chan School of Public Health writes with researcher Gretchen Goldman in a new Science essay on the subject this loads the dice against demonstrating harms because randomized control trials are not possible or ethical when studying environmental hazards.	The other is that particulate emissions play a key role in the bureaucratic politics of climate change.	True
We know we arent in the business of risking anyones safety.	Sometimes Mother Nature throws you a curveball!	The Peoples Climate March which was supported by hundreds of thousands across the country and tens of thousands in Washington was sponsored by environmental groups labor unions and social justice groups.	As well as an ironic sign In other parts of the country where similar marches and rallies took place the weather was a little kinder to the liberal climate alarmist narrative.	Dangerous conditions and wet heavy snow in the forecast for tomorrow a local climate change organization wrote on their Facebook page.	True
Repairs cost about 90 million.	Time will tell whether better proves good enough said Dave Lochbaum director of a watchdog group the nuclear safety project at the Union of Concerned Scientists.	Nuclear plants also hired more staff and stored equipment needed to deal with reactor problems.	U.S. nuclear operators have taken steps to improve preparations for disasters since Fukushima.	Lochbaum said the NRC and the industry could do more to reduce vulnerability to flooding.	False
Check out this chart The fines come from consent decrees a type of legal settlement where a party has to take a specific action but does not have to admit fault or liability.	Less enforcement doesnt mean there arent a whole lot of violations that are out there said Eric Schaeffer executive director of the Environmental Integrity Project who led the civil enforcement office at the EPA under Presidents Clinton and Bush in a call with reporters.	But one of EPAs most important jobs is to enforce civil penalties for companies that breach limits for hazardous chemicals like sulfur dioxide and hydrochloric acid.	Enforcement matters especially to the people who live and work next to plants that continue to release more pollution than the law allows.	And one new measure of Pruitts foot dragging thats just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately.	True
It's a dereliction of both her duty to this country and our duty to our planet.'	'Today China and Europe have demonstrated solidarity with future generations and responsibility for the planet' he said.	'I think we can work more effectively in making sure that every pound that goes in to the fund is achieving what it is meant to do.'	Asked whether the UK could contribute more she told the Daily Mail 'It is not always about money it is about ways of working and how to achieve effective outcomes.	'It is what the public wants it makes economic sense and it is what the world needs in order to safeguard the lives of future generations.'	True
This fire moved so fast I don't think anybody did anything wrong Ms Schori says when asked whether those forced to abandon vehicles and escape on foot could have acted differently.	The majority could be attributed to humans though only 8 were caused by arson.	Sometimes you do fight fire with fire.	According to the National Park Service 90 of wildfires in the US are caused by humans whether by unattended campfires burning debris cigarettes or arson.	Ms Schori of Cal Fire said that with wind driven blazes like the Camp Fire officials often have no choice but to wait for conditions to improve.	False
at world leaders at the U.N. General Assembly earlier this year accusing them of failing the younger generation.	The businessman denounced the choice as a 'marketing gimmick' and said the prize should have honored 'Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms' his father was also a finalist.	Greta said 'The biggest danger is not inaction the real danger is when politicians and CEOs are making it look like real action is happening when in fact almost nothing is being done apart from clever accounting and creative PR.'	In a speech the teenager also criticized governments for avoiding taking action to cut greenhouse gas emissions and 'not behaving as if we are in an emergency'.	The 16 year old Swedish face of climate activism made headlines after shouting 'How dare you?'	True
Some scientists maintain people like Nye are the ones cherry picking data.	Comedian Bill Nye accused CNN of doing a disservice to its viewers for inviting a well respected physicist on Earth Day to argue about the legitimacy of man made global warming.	Nye who is well known for hosting a childrens TV show in the 1990s scolded CNNs New Day Saturday panel Saturday for pitting his environmentalist pedigree against the climate skepticism of physicistWilliam Happer.	Hes even suggested that throwingglobal warming skeptics in jail could be a potential solutionduring an interview with the conservative Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow.	Nye for his part has been one of the most belligerent apostle for the environmental movement.	False
Well as a Christian I believe that there is a creator in God who is much bigger than us.	Do I think man has some impact?	And Im confident that if theres a real problem he can take care of it.	Can man change the entire universe?	Why do I believe that?	True
And Interior Department climate scientist Joel Clement allegedthat he and dozens of other scientists had been arbitrarily reassigned.	The study had been launched at the request of two West Virginia agencies the state's Department of Environmental Protection and Bureau for Public Health.	'Stopping this study is a ploy to stop science in its tracks and keep the public in the dark about health risks as a favor to the mining industry pure and simple' said Democratic Representative Ral Grijalva of Arizona ranking member of the House Committee on Natural Resources in a statement.	An emphasis was placed on studying the 'effects from surface coal mining operations on air surface water groundwater and drinking water quality and on ecologic communities and soil that could potentially lead to human health concerns.'	Critics have railed against the Interior Department for moves seen as halting scientific growth.	True
Deal with it later?	The business of government is the peoples business developers step to the rear.	We have no luxury to indulge selfish ignorant behaviors.	Three well known parables apply One more stick with the pin?	Demand to be treated like adults.	True
This is the first of perhaps more events like that to come Tina Neal the scientist in charge of the USGS Hawaiian Volcano Observatory said on a conference call of Wednesdays blast which shot projectiles from the crater.	He was asleep on the couch when a fissure opened up 2000 feet 610 meters away spewing out lava and gas.	The 57 year old who recently retired to the area from Orange County California said he had seen drone footage showing lava flowing up his driveway causing two propane tanks to explode.	All we could do was sit there and cry he said.	Evacuee David Nail was anxious to learn if his house had been destroyed.	True
When companies make these pledges to be sustainably sourced or use recycled content that's the problem that they're solving.	We believe in the dignity of life and part of that is having a place to live he said.	It's that natural infrastructure that we're trying to avoid being lost.	Instead PG promises to source its paper from forests that are well managed which in the company's view is a more responsible course of action than using recycled products.	Making paper sustainably doesn't necessarily mean using 100 recycled content said Stephen Donofrio director of the Ecosystem Marketplace initiative at the nonprofit Forest Trends.	False
There are factors and factors and factors.	This article originally appeared at PRI's The World.	So when you go to Texas or you go to Iowa you're generally just negotiating with a landowner whether it's a farmer whomever says Beggar.	And that's really what we have here says economist Robert Godby director of the Center for Energy Economics and Public Policy at the University of Wyoming.	If you're a state like Wyoming where you produce so much fossil fuel in particular coal that's threatened by any sort of climate change policy we might put in place to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.	True
Leckie said there was something of a vicious circle when it came to medical prescriptions and climate related disease.	When animals and humans ingest medicines up to 90 percent of active ingredients are excreted back into the environment.	Many medicines are simply discarded in the United States alone an estimated one third of the four billion drugs prescribed each year ends up as waste.	We're seeing constant engineering of new pharmaceuticals and seeing clinical practices evolve to include recommendations of earlier treatment and higher doses said the lead report author Hannah Leckie.	Unless adequate measures are taken to manage the risks pharmaceutical residues will increasingly be released into the environment as ageing populations advances in healthcare and intensification of meat and fish production spur the demand for pharmaceuticals worldwide the report said.	True
Francisco noted that the plaintiffs are seeking to hold the U.S. government liable for the cumulative effects of carbon dioxide emissions from every source in the world over decades.	This is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights Olson said in court papers.	Lawyers for the young activists led by Julia Olson of a Eugene based group called Our Childrens Trust that brought the lawsuit have said their clients have suffered irreparable harm from the effects of a changing climate.	In the lawsuit 21 activists ages 11 to 22 said federal officials violated their rights to due process under the U.S. Constitution by failing to adequately address carbon pollution such as emissions from the burning of fossil fuels.	The loss for the administration means it now faces a high profile examination of U.S. climate change policy during the trial that was due to begin on Oct. 29 in Eugene Oregon but has since been postponed by the judge.	True
Rob Bishop the top Republican on the House Natural Resources Committee said on the House floor before the vote.	Related Crumbling national parks Congress looks to hike funds for repairs after years of neglect The very basis of all of the bills that are in here is to put people above government Utah Rep.	Democratsgot behind the bill because it would expand environmental protections.	If indeed we're going to have public lands there should be access to those lands.	The bill won easy passage in the House in part because it included dozens of individual member's parochial priorities stretching across all 50 states.	True
When the Paris Agreement was being negotiated the U.S. delegation pushed for more transparency and accountability to make sure the countries that signed on would actually do what they promised.	Even though we're the ones who have been pointing to these potential scenarios for problems with other countries we seem to be the biggest problem Light says.	The U.S. even helped spearhead language that would hold countries accountable for the promises they made in part to help guard against regime changes and other global political turmoil.	And so for us to be the exception on this issue is holding the world back.	Each country set its own goals and many wealthy countries including the U.S. also agreed to help poorer countries pay for the costs associated with climate change.	True
As a Christian I have a responsibility to try my best to be as wealthy as possible James Wanliss an associate professor of physics at Presbyterian College in South Carolina and the author ofThe Green Dragon Is Global Warming a Religion?	The position paper called for protecting Gods creation and embracing the governments help in doing so.	On one side of that debate is a theological argument thats gained prominence in some corners of evangelical Christianity over the past decade.	Roy Moore hes part of that culture Michael Hansen executive director of the Birmingham based environmental group Gasp and a former candidate in the Democratic primary for Senate told HuffPost.	As a Christian thats a problem to me because well aside from the philosophy behind those systems its just again empirically been disastrous.	True
Regardless of what causes disasters it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences Long told CNN.	Instead they both said the focus should be on resiliency.	Regardless of why you're doing it what you're doing would be the same whatever motivates you.	We live in a changing world and as the FEMA administrator said we always have to look at not just the response but the preparedness and the resilience Duke said.	We could tie this to climate change or we could tie it to saving taxpayer money.	True
Imagine if research funded by Exxon was sole basis for claims.	University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. pointed out problems with the study on Twitter Saturday including the fact it was funded by groups connected with Bloomberg and Steyer.	That 2017 study published in the journal Science was funded in part by Bloomberg Philanthropies and Next Generation which were founded by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and San Francisco billionaire Tom Steyer respectively.	Andrew Light a distinguished senior fellow at the World Resources Institute and reviewer of the chapter highlighting the Bloomberg Steyer funded study did not respond to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for comment.	The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund.	True
The mechanism Robert Francis is referring to is a democracy.	How does a man who under normal circumstances would be working as a barista in the local coffee shop dole out knowledge of experience on World War II to a Democrat party who eagerly laps it up?	But he doesnt care because in his mind its real.	How else to explain last months comments that environmental activists are just like those who were on the beaches in Normandy.	When you think about leadership those who preceded us those who were on the beaches in Normandy those who faced an existential threat to Western democracy and our way of life they showed us the way he said referencing a plan to fight climate change.	False
In Houston communities of color have endured back to back major weather events without the acknowledgment from Washington that climate change is the cause.	We've known for years that it's true and it's important to our organizing and our local policy efforts that information like this is not only considered but believed and acted upon.	The global average temperature is much higher and is rising more rapidly than anything modern civilization has experienced and this warming trend can only be explained by human activities Easterling said.	Coming from the US Global Change Research Program a team of 13 federal agencies the Fourth National Climate Assessment was put together with the help of 1000 people including 300 leading scientists roughly half from outside the government.	What can be done The report was created to inform policy makers and makes no specific recommendations on how to remedy the problem.	True
Remember what Hillary Clinton said?	Circuit decides on the merits of the GOP industry lawsuit against it.	The sum total of this is to take this issue out of the courts and then give the environmental nazis a new chew toy to play with for several years.	This was a part of Obamas pen and phone way of ruling the country.	Did you ever stop to wonder what they know that the current belly achers dont?	False
Mustafa Ali the former head of the EPA environmental justice office noted that the idea of scoring environmental justice impacts is something advocates have pushed for years.	Harris is not the only presidential candidate who has come out with a plan focused on environmental justice.Jay Inslee released the fifth plank of his climate change package on Monday that refocuses the White House Council of Environmental Quality as a new clearinghouse for environmental justice and has its own scoring mechanism for impacts.	People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices.	It does begin to answer one of the key questions around the Green New Deal debate which is how to include low income and communities of colorthe frontline voices facing the most dire effects of climate changein the legislative process.	We cannot accept a status quo where children of color are drinking toxic water in Flint or breathing toxic air in Louisianas Cancer AlleyHarris said in a statement.	True
Ive studied it better than anybody.	Spewing.	You talk about the carbon footprint fumes are spewing into the air.	Interior Department spokesman Nicholas Goodwin said in a statement that the government needed to make sure the project was safe and environmentally responsible.	None Trump impeachment FAQ What you need to know	True
The key element is that these three solutions must be implemented together.	Tackling food loss and waste will require measures across the entire food chain from storage and transport over food packaging and labelling to changes in legislation and business behaviour that promote zero waste supply chains said Fabrice de Clerck director of science at EAT who funded the study.	However the study finds that no single solution will avert the dangers so a combined approach is needed.	Fast on the heels of the landmark report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC comes this new study on how food production and consumption impact major threats to the planet.	Without action the impacts of the food system could increase by up to 90.	True
This is the war we are facing.	Yet amid rising international pressure the 63 year old former army captain reportedly signed an executive order deploying the military to help reduce the wildfires which he previously blamed on NGOs who were seeking to undermine his administration.	It is an international crisis.	Our house is burning.	On the question of burning in the Amazon which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money what is the intention?	True
Instead of focusing on the apprehensionand divisiveness surrounding the causes of natural disasters its more important than ever that we maintain our humanity and come together tohelp one another.	In a hyper political environment pro climate change and anti climate change theory rhetoric serves only to distract from the real issue at hand the necessity of serving people impacted by natural disasters and the implementation ofstandardized response to these crises.	In a new study economist and environmental analyst Nicholas Loris explained that climate change simply isnt responsible for Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.	With the eastern seaboard still in the thick of hurricane season as well asthe most recent devastation caused by Category 5 Hurricane Maria which was said to cripple Dominica with widespread devastation en route to Puerto Rico and possibly the States its important to maintainlevelheaded perspective and communication on natural disasters while speakingtruth amidstapprehension.	Man made warming did not cause Harvey and Irma Loris wrote.	True
Thunberg and her father who has traveled North America throughout his daughters activist tour could have flown aboard the same flight and burned just as much CO2.	From the Hill Greta Thunbergs plan for carbon free travel was contradicted when her sailboat captain flew across the Atlantic Ocean to pick her up.	No wonder celebs opt to be complete and utter hypocrites instead of actually trying to get carbon neutral.	I mean you really think the entire world is going to come to a screeching halt for carbon emissions when you cant even organize a publicity stunt with your own standards?	And we all kinda see what is happening here if they cant do it now then why would we believe that they would be carbon free after they force all of us to live in backwards slums?	False
And while the fires have been burning for weeks the international outcry grew this week as photographs spread on social media.	A military leader for example said that part of its mission involved creating a positive perception of the country.	Protecting the rain forest is our duty he said.	That was quite a change in tune for a president who had previously described environmental protections as an impediment for economic growth and had blamed non governmental organizations of starting the fires.	As attention focused on the fires burning in the Amazon it became clear that Europeans have taken the role as the global leaders in the fight against climate change notes the New York Times.	True
If WeWork employees want a burger while on business the money is coming out of their own pockets.	Employees wanting medical or religious exceptions can hash those out witha company policy team.	WeWork is perhaps the most well known company to emerge offering co working spaces to freelancers small businesses and even employees of large companies such as Microsoft.	WeWork confirmed the policy change to both news outlets.	More As co working grows up niche spaces take center stage WeWork boasts 6000 employees worldwide according to Bloomberg.	True
David Keith a solar geoengineering GE expert at Harvard University has said there is a real danger that his work could be exploited by those who oppose action on emissions at the same time as he defended himself and colleagues from the claims GE strengthens the argument for abandoning the targets set by the Paris climate agreement.	They also ignore the question as to why theres not enough political will to have done more to tackle climate change until now and they in turn serve to justify the inaction she added.	Keith believes the experiment may help to measure the feasibility and risks involved in GE an umbrella term for a range of techniques to deliberately adjust the climate in an effort to mitigate global warming.	This weeks conference drew attention to the huge risks involved.	But scientists such as Keith and Mark Lawrence scientific director of the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies IASS in Potsdam argue that with the Paris agreement goals to limit temperature rise to two degrees or less almost impossible to achieve the world has little choice than to thoroughly explore technical intervention and the potential it has to avoid global disaster.	False
On a broader note Im confused.	Alexandria Ocasio Cortez has found something else to blame on the supposed climate crisis.	If a pipe bursts in your house thats not the fault of climate change.	Then there was the explosion at an oil refinery which despite not being a weather event at all nor being caused by one was somehow the fault of climate change.	In reality New York Citys subway system is a dumpster fire of mismanagement.	True
This report is striking for two reasons.	Future risks from climate change depend... on decisions made today the 4th National Climate Assessment says.	Environmental groups said the report underlined their demands for action.	Now without mentioning the president his own scientists have answered their boss's question in comprehensive detail.	That view was echoed by Abigail Dillen president of environmental group Earthjustice.	True
We want to be there we want to be providing solutions for the world.	We know where were going.	Through crestfallen Trudeau reiterated to the president Canadas continued commitment to working internationally to address climate change.	This is about an ambitious and unshakable desire to leave a cleaner healthier and more sustainable planet for our kids and for generations to come.	Despite the lofty objectives when Trudeau signed the Paris accord he was widely criticized in Canada by environmentalists for selling out to an agreement that they said was far too lenient on greenhouse gas producers.	True
Pat McCrory R signed a bill that dramatically watered down legislation forcing Duke to clean up its coal ash pits without requiring the company to excavate the waste or provide clean water to residents near the pond.	Children are particularly at risk of learning disabilities birth defects asthma and cancer with 1.54 million living near such storage sites according to EPA data cited by the Sierra Club.	In 2014 Duke Energy one of the countrys biggest power companies spilled nearly 39000 tons of coal ash into the Dan River causing one of North Carolinas biggest environmental disasters in its history.	Yet two years later the company is still battling environmentalists and regulators in the state as the utility seeks to pass the cleanup costs onto ratepayers in the form of a price hike.	Thomas Adams executive director of the American Coal Ash Association said he hopes the next part of the EPAs announcement will include changing a rule that mandates companies to go through a risk evaluation when stockpiling more than 12400 tons of coal ash for anything other than road projects.	True
And everywhere along the way for example Ive argued and pushed for us suing those executives who are engaged in pollution those companies engaged in pollution he added.	What have we done?	Biden recently came under fire for attending a fundraiser hosted by Andrew Goldman a founder of the natural gas company Western LNG.	Being called a kid is a little patronizing when Im trying to do so much work she added.	And the fact of the matter is that what we talk about is what are we going to do about those corporations?	False
We claim to be the party that cares about the future that our children will inherit and we need climate policy that reflects that said Kiera OBrien 21 a senior at Harvard University who co founded the group.	The key here is the dividend back to the people former Sen. Trent Lott R MS who supports the young group told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.	We are offering up what we see as the common sense solution and the way forward for the party OBrien said in the Reuters article.	The generation that has grown up with the constant drumbeat of manmade climate change is now shaping public policy including some young conservatives who have launched a nationwide campaign in support of a carbon tax.	Our plan would provide incentives for companies and individuals to lower emissions in ways they think are best.	False
And I think for younger people looking at this are more like how are we saying lets take it easy when 3000 Americans died last year how are we saying lets take it easy when the end person died from our cruel and unjust criminal justice system?	Yet IPCC report authorsframedthis as a problem of political will not economics and technology.	The New Deal.	Indeed Ocasio Cortez saidglobal warming is her generations World War II.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True
They have been reckless and not followed the basic requirements of the law.	Over and over again the Trump administration has put the profits of multinational polluters over the health and well being of everyday Americans said Eric Schneiderman New Yorks attorney general.	The reversal of Obamas environmental legacy has been spearheaded by Scott Pruitt who heads the EPA the agency he repeatedly sued as Oklahoma attorney general.	Ironically for Pruitt who has touted a back to basics approach rooted safely within the confines of the law this rapidly executed agenda has run into a thicket of legal problems causing the administration to admit defeat in several cases.	The Trump administration has been sloppy and careless theyve shown significant disrespect for rule of law and courts have called them on it said Richard Revesz a professor at the New York University school of law.	True
But instead of blasting the reports authors there are more than 300 for basing their findings on the most extreme scenarios a false claim that he and the White House pushed last week Zinke on Tuesday blamed the media among other targets.	And in order to understand it quite frankly we have to work with you he said.	We want to embrace better stewardship.	We want to embrace reliability.	Ive been criticized for saying we want to work with you.	False
2 job Wheeler said he believed that man has an impact on the climate but whats not completely understood is what the impact is.	Sen. Dan Sullivan R Alaska even prompted Wheeler with a question about his nearly two decades working for Bob Murray the influential and bombastic baron who runs the nations largest privately owned coal company.	Wheelers climate denial received some backup at Wednesdays hearing.	He even mixed up two of the most important climate science reports to come out in the last three months admitting he hadnt fully read the report co authored by researchers at his own agency.	Wheeler blamed the shutdown for the delay in releasing a plan to deal with toxic perfluorinated substances in drinking water.	True
Despite the total absence of credible scientific evidence the media is convinced and is attempting to convince us that we have global warming an Ozone hole and acid rain and that it is all man's fault Pendley said in a 1992 speech to the Heritage Foundation.	Despite the total absence of credible scientific evidence the media is convinced and is attempting to convince us that we have global warming an Ozone hole and acid rain and that it is all man's fault he added.	As someone in the public arena for nearly four decades I've given countless statements and written scores of articles on a wide variety of topics.	The source illegal immigrants.	I'm focused now on implementing the policy priorities of the Trump administration and Secretary Bernhardt within the authorities and mission given this agency by Congress.	False
He is hurting them.	Kerry cited in the interview the millions of renewable energy jobs that have been created to help curb carbon dioxide emissions as an example of how the Paris Agreement and its associated efforts would have a positive impact on the economy but the truth is that the only reason the wind and solar energy industries have been able to survive is because they are heavily subsidized by taxpayers.	Kerry claimed Trump is not helping the forgotten American.	As H. Sterling Burnett a research fellow in climate and energy issues for The Heartland Institute where I also work as executive editor and a research fellow noted in a recent article on Trumps decision Numerous studies including a NERA Economic Consulting report cited in Trumps announcement showed meeting the carbon dioxide targets imposed on the United States under the Paris agreement would force the premature closing of many of the nations least expensive power plants.	You have this disconnect.	True
The environmental Left rushed to publicize the incident as an I told you so moment but activists gloating reveals either their cynical dishonesty or their ignorance about how modern pipelines work.	Such biased narratives have bedeviled the Dakota Access Pipeline from the beginning.	The spill occurred in an Energy Transfer Partners facility specifically equipped to catch spills.	And a Clean Technica reporter claimed the incident drives home an essential truth about all the systems mankind has devised to transport oil from place to placeaddingThey all leak.	Writing in the Guardian opinionist Julian Brave NoiseCat said that the leak demonstrates the risk of technological and human failure inherent in crude oil pipelines adding that indigenous communities ranchers and workers are forced to live under the constant threat of petroleum poisoning.	False
RELATED NYT Suggests Global Warming Is To Blame For Roger Federers US Open Defeat Since President Trumps election WRI political activities have turned to influencing state and municipal governments the lawmakers wrote.	On important issues for Chinese leadership WRIs position appears to closely reflect Chinas goals and objectives the two lawmakers added.	Rob Bishop of Utah and Bruce Westermanof Arkansaswrote in a letter to WRI President Andrew Steer sent Wednesday.	In at least one governors office WRI has embedded a senior environmental adviser and appears to exercise a high level of control of the governments environmental agenda.	WRI leadership regularly interacts with senior Chinese government and Communist party officials and provides public support for Chinese environmental programs Bishop and Westerman wrote.While WRI criticizes policies of the U.S. government WRI is silent on Chinese human rights violations such as arrests of environmental protesters and the mass detention of ethnic minorities.	False
So that was the motivation for originally setting up the project.	Before 2010 Antarctica was contributing a relatively small proportion of the melting that is causing global sea levels to rise says study co leader Andrew Shepherd of the University of Leeds.	Some of the estimates covered different proportions of the ice sheets some of them covered different time periods and all of them used different methods and so it became difficult for people who are not specialists to try to pick them apart says Shepherd.	That could be a big deal he says for anybody who lives works and governs a coastal region.	We believe that we've captured all of the different satellite records that exist on the planet he says.	True
Democrats and environmentalists claimed the storm was made worse by man made global warming.	Democrats and environmentalists claimed the storm was made worse by man made global warming.	Florence dumped 11 trillion gallons of rain over the Carolinas causing devastating floods and taking more than 50 lives.	Florence dumped 11 trillion gallons of rain over the Carolinas causing devastating floods and taking more than 50 lives.	RELATED Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado However not all scientists agreed.	True
In the late 1990sa crusading attorneysued E.I.	There is enough data to take action.	du Pont de Nemours and Co. over a massive contamination in Parkersburg West Virginia that killed livestock and sickened and deformed many residents in the rural Appalachian community that surrounded the chemical companys plant.	That set off a chain reaction exposing local contaminations across the country including several in New York State.	Asked if it was possible the EPA may eventually fail to set a maximum containment limit or MCL Wheeler said the agency cant predetermine what the outcome will be but has every intention of setting an MCL.	False
He reportedly blamed out of touch elites for the Golden States water issues and called Newsom the poster boy for these problems.	According to the poll which has a 3.4 margin of error 67 of Democrats 54 of independents and 33 of Republicans believe that Democrat Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom and Republican businessman John Coxs views on environmental issues will impact how they vote.	so the incentives are not great.	In an interview with the Flash Report this week Cox said water housing affordability and the gas tax are the three main issues he wants to tackle.	Most also say that water is the most important issue to them in that category.	False
All three are equally important to human wellbeing.	This is fuelling climate change and compromising our attempts to feed a growing world population the authors will say.	Brexit could give the UK greater flexibility on how to spend public money on farming enabling much more leeway to reward farmers for capturing carbon in the earth.	Soil expert Prof Jane Rickson from Cranfield University UK added The thin layer of soil covering the Earth's surface represents the difference between survival and extinction for most terrestrial life.	The body which is meeting this week aims to get all the worlds governments singing from the same sheet about the need to protect natural systems.	True
Regardless of what causes disasters it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences Long told CNN.	Causality is something outside of my ability to analyze right now he said.	To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced.	Pushed about whether the administration should also be looking at the cause of the storm Duke responded I you know the data I don't know what it particularly indicates.	We live in a changing world and as the FEMA administrator said we always have to look at not just the response but the preparedness and the resilience said Duke.	True
As we have said many times the President's team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the President's plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986.	A carbon tax would hit emissions of greenhouse gases related to the burning of fossil fuels.	Republicans have turned their attention to an overhaul of the U.S. tax system a key campaign goal after their first attempt to replace the Affordable Care Act failed.	A value added tax which is widely used around the world is consumption based.	The carbon tax would appear to clash with the priorities Trump has sought so far in his administration.	True
Occasionally there needs to be an opportunity based on a unique circumstance to ensure that my family are safe it's generally as simple as that.	The duke said that what is important is what we do to balance out negative effects.	He also said he paid to carbon offset their trip to his French home.	During his opening speech the duke said no one is perfect in terms of his impact on the environment.	The Duke of Sussex has defended his use of private jets saying he occasionally needs to ensure his family is safe.	True
Given its clear violation of the Clean Air Act I intend to sue the EPA over this Dirty Power rule and look forward to collaborating with other states and cities in taking action to protect all Americans from the increasingly disastrous impacts of climate change James said in a statement.	RELATED America's renewable energy capacity is now greater than coal New York Attorney General Letitia James said her state and others will go to court.	We are gathered here today because the American public elected a president with a better approach EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said Wednesday.	At a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing last week about the direction of the EPA former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy who finalized the Clean Power Plan under Obama said she believes the proposed Affordable Clean Energy rule as well as other proposed rules the agency has made since Trump took office undermines the science and the law in how they're trying to roll back those rules.	Connecticut is in close coordination with states across the nation and we are prepared to take legal action to block this measure the state's attorney general William Tong.	True
The mayor said he had challenged the citys Department of Water and Power to come up with an answer Instead of saying all the reasons why not get to a reason as to why.	It is not clear how the state will achieve that goal.	Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor at Large at Breitbart News.	The plan also aims to provide every American with a guaranteed job with a family sustaining wage adequate family and medical leave paid vacations and retirement security to all people.	He made the decision despite the fact that top staffers have argued in recent months that the gas plants are critical to keeping the lights on in the city theTimes noted.	True
The lack of specifics could present opportunities and liabilities for presidential candidates.	But on the other it could put candidates in a difficult position when pressed on the costs and impact on certain jobs and industries.	A third principle a just transition for fossil fuel workers so that no one is left behind and so we show respect and gratitude for all the work they've done to power economy is the decades past.	Our first step is to define the problem and define the scope of the solution Ocasio Cortez told reporters during a Thursday afternoon press conference for her newly introduced proposal which was quickly backed by Democratic presidential hopefuls Senators Kirsten Gillibrand Kamala Harris Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker.	The debate over Medicare for All has already shown the kinds of risks and rewards candidates face.	True
For years positions in the debate over mainstream climate policies ranged from hard line denial of climate change on one end to moderate market tweaks on the other.	Heather McGhee senior fellow at the progressive think tank Demos A decade of disputation is followed now by this incredible uptick of Republicans looking around for solutions former Rep. Bob Inglis R S.C. whose support for climate action led to his ouster in a primary challenge in 2010 said at the event where he was the lone Republican.	On Wednesday conservatives leading voice of reason on climate change published a widely shared essay that offered talking points to oppose the Green New Deal without invoking hamburger bans Stalinism or genocide.	The findings made clear that market fixes alone might have worked in the 1970s when scientists first understood the climate impacts of burning fossil fuels but now its too late.	We cannot allow for the fossil fuel jobs to be better more dignified and higher waged with stronger labor support behind them than new energy jobs she said.	False
We dont have a social mission other than transparency and fact checking.	Were not going to win the internet by going out and saying everybody is doing it wrong its just a pricing story.	He admitted in a media environment that rewards sensationalism and factual manipulation the approach may seem a bit bland.	Its the mother of all risk Sandberg added.	Even Exxon Mobil Corp. the oil behemoth that spent decades bankrolling a Big Tobacco style campaign to discredit global warming has named a climate scientist to its board.	True
Jerry Brown.	Use the SEC to scrutinize banks and investors for climate risks Most attention for climate change goes to the energy sector but banks and investors have an important role too.	CNN gathered input from advocacy groups former government officials and academics.	He said without much evidence that it was a demeaning failure for American workers who would be expected to do more than those in other countries.	Pretty much everyone who agrees that climate change is a problem agrees that Congress will ultimately have to address it in a big way.	True
Poorer countries are less likely to act when they think theyre unfairly bearing the burden of a problem kickstarted by Western industrial development.	The Amazon rainforest is on fire and the consensus is that Brazils far right populist leader Jair Bolsonaro is to blame.	You cant propose an effective solution to a transnational problem through a narrowly nationalist framework and yet the nationalists are here attacking both climate policies in their own country and the very idea of global governance itself.	All of this goes to underscore an important and poorly understood point The wave of right wing populism sweeping the world is not only dangerous for the countries who succumb to it or even to immigrants wishing to move to those nations.	But the stakes are even bigger than they appear at first glance Its not just the survival of Western democracy thats at stake but the planet itself.	True
The 18 year old activist made a name for herself beyond the Keystone State last month when she questioned Republican gubernatorial nominee Scott Wagner at a town hall on what she said was his lack of action on climate change and donations he received from the fossil fuel industry.	Wagner also asked the Glenside crowd Are we here to elect a governor or are we here to elect a scientist?	He has shown support for the young and naive voters Strauss told the paper adding that while Wolf has supported us verbally the governor hasnt committed to action on things we care about like climate change.	Rose Strauss apparently isnt showing favoritism in the race for Pennsylvania governor at least when it comes to asking candidates about climate change.	Well in a way she has Wagner to thank for that as he responded by calling Strauss a little young and naive on video which subsequently went viral.	True
The estate was at high risk for flooding during heavy rains and storms with water already pooling on the premises in addition to nearby bridges and roads in Palm Beach.	Last summer the Guardian investigated Trumps coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels.	But the truth is we are relatively early in our scientific understanding of how the great ice sheets will respond to warming.	What they found was Mar a Lago was already in serious trouble.	President Donald Trump has called climate change a hoax and a very expensive tax on American businesses that make the US less competitive.	True
The former secretary for Housing and Urban Development and mayor of San Antonio drew on his experience working with families who had lost their homes to flooding and called for subsidizing the National Flood Insurance Program.	He recounted discovering that 70 percent of subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site saying Thats the environmental injustice of racism that were dealing with.	Mr. Castro won some of his strongest applause when he leaned into his rsum as the nations housing chief and connected his work with the need to protect low income communities from environmental damages.	An activist from the Sunrise Movement a liberal environmental group asked Mr. Castro why he should be trusted to move the country away from fossil fuels when he supported fracking.	Julin Castro the first 2020 Democratic presidential candidate at the CNN climate town hall set the tone early in the night by giving a shout out to Gov.	True
Pera Markovic a lawyer with Cekor an environmental group is critical of the company's failure to limit pollution in the local area.	You cannot be a world leader in curbing air pollution and at the same time the world's biggest financier of overseas coal power plants the group's energy coordinator Ioana Ciuta told the BBC.	Christine Shearer is an analyst with the group CoalSwarm which tracks coal developments and she is scathing about the implications.	Contracts and financing for these facilities are often not fully transparent but campaign groups including Bankwatch have tried to keep track.	As levels of greenhouse gases reach a new record concerns are growing about the role of China in global warming.	False
Rep. Adam Kinzinger R IL reiterated that point to Greta Thunberg and the other climate kids who testified before theHouse Committee on Foreign Affairs andSelect Committee on the Climate Crisis on Wednesday.	We also pay attention to the climate and we are also thinking deeply interacting taking action and so many people are very conscientious on this issue she added.	Several climate change activists in D.C. decried the U.S. for its role in contributing to climate change despite the fact that the U.S. has made great strides in reducing its carbon output seeing the largest decline in CO2 emissions in the world for 9th time this century in 2017.	Today the Chinese account for 30 percent of global emissions.	However there was a remarkable lack of participation from individuals in China the planets worst greenhouse gas emitter minus a protest in Hong Kong.	True
Scientists should openly address the uncertainties and exaggerations in their predictions of global warming while politicians should dispassionately count the real benefits as well as the imagined costs of adaptation to global warming and the real costs as well as the imagined benefits of mitigation.	No matter what the winter shapes up to be there is a 100 percent probability that climate alarmists will find some way to attribute the weather to global warming and carbon dioxide emissions.	The declarations signers insisted that public policy must respect scientific and economic realities and not just reflect the most fashionable trend of the day.	Climate science should be less political while climate policies should be more scientific the declaration stated.	Late last month a group of over 500 scientists and climate professionals sent a European Climate Declaration to the Secretary General of the United Nations appealing for an open debate on climate change.	True
Are we part of the reason?	I'll let people debate on who's the bigger problem here.	That's just common sense.	Energy Secretary Rick Perry veering from the Trump administration message on climate change told CNBC on Wednesday he believes that human activity does play a role.	I'm on the record as saying the climate is changing.	True
Currys ultimate conclusion Some of the worst case scenarios strain credulity.	The odd proclamation prompted meteorologist Ryan Maue to step in and offer the young Democrat a lesson in what weather is.	The other side of her thinks were foolish for believing her claim that climate change will destroy the world in 12 years.	No one wants to hear this or actually spend time understanding things Curry said.	In a second tweet Maue pointed out that AOC doesnt seem to know the difference between weather and climate and offered her an easy analogy so that she understood for the future.	True
We have to think about the whole world.	And thats why many of my plans intersect with our global opportunities and responsibilities.	Those of us that work on the water we need climate solutions and we need them now the man said.	Because weve got to be working on all fronts.	Were trying to step into this void because most of the climate plans are really focused on the big manufacturing and industrial emitters and the big terrestrial sources of pollution said Jason Scorse director of the Center for the Blue Economy at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies and any early crafter of the Blue New Deal approach.	True
This is our issue Beverly said.	By fighting for the actual justice and livelihood of working people you are going to create the political energy to actually address climate change she said.	Were hit first and hit worst.	Theres no question that this is a topic area that black politicians including the CBC Congressional Black Caucus have not focused on as much Thomas A. LaVeist dean of Tulane Universitys School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine said in an interview.	This is about social disruption Shepard said.	False
We know that certain oil and gas corporations have been fighting public policy on this issue have been hiding their own science and research at the expense of our climate and human life he said.	Where does he get off thinking he's going to stop human progress?	He's no Einstein he's no Carnegie.	O'Rourke also said that he wanted people in the fossil fuel industry to act as partners in reaching his goal.	Watters asked.	False
Thus if we want markets to produce more clean innovation we should reward innovators rather than penalize polluters in the hopes that doing so will indirectly induce them to produce innovation.	The views are their own.	This line of attack however ignores the costs of inaction.	Quentin Karpilow is a law clerk in the federal judiciary.	Every second that we delay in reducing our carbon footprint imposes costs on ourselves and on countless future generations.	True
They reflect profound failure to honour collective global commitment to protect the most vulnerable.	At the Madrid summit ambassador Lois Young from the Alliance of Small Island States AOSIS which represents low lying coastal countries and small island nations launched a rebuke to the world's big polluters.	We are disappointed by inadequate action by developed countries and outraged by the dithering and retreat of one of the most culpable polluters from the Paris Agreement she said.	America remains the number one historic contributor to the climate emergency and even Democratic politicians have never committed to taking responsibility for our fair share.	In the midst of a climate emergency retreat and inaction are tantamount to sanctioning ecocide.	False
Thats why I object to the Democrats as much as to the Republicans.	The only effective way of addressing climate change is to make the price of fossil fuels include their cost to society said Hansen.	Hansen claims by imposing the tax and then redistributing the money to consumers the increased price of gasoline would be offset and Americans would be happy having received thousands of extra dollars from the government.	In a recent interview with the Scientific American noted climate alarmist James Hansen which the article refers to as the father of climate change awareness said the plan promoted by Republicans is similar to one he developed in 2008 and would be popular with the American people.	Opponents say energy costs will increase not only because of the tax but also because energy companies will raise prices across the board knowing that all consumers have more money to spend thanks to carbon tax dividends.	False
Were bringing the loss of our future to the steps of the Capitol because they need to prepare to own this death 17 year old organizer Maddie Graham said.	We need systemic change.	Meanwhile Warren has attempted to channel Gov.	The host asked Warren a listener question name the specific steps she has taken in her campaign to ensure that your campaigns environmental impact is limited as possible.	Can we make that work s a way to try to reduce the footprint she added	False
My father died of black lung and I am in this struggle with others whose fathers and husbands are dying of black lung right now said Teri Blanton of Kentuckians for the Commonwealth which represents Appalachian coal workers in North America.	Nonetheless many observers at the official US panel were ashamed at the position of their federal government.	Although these industries are the main source of the carbon emissions that are causing global warming the speakers boasted the US would expand production for the sake of global energy security and planned a new fleet of coal plants with technology it hoped to export to other countries.	None of the panelists would be drawn on the study but Griffith spoke out against alarmism that he claimed displaced pragmatic solutions to address environmental concerns with prescriptive regulations that put jobs at risk and raised costs for consumers.	I was completely embarrassed to be an American said Leo McNeil Woodberry of the Climate Action Network.	True
As we have said many times the Presidents team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the Presidents plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986 deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters said in a statement responding to WaPosstory.	But the White House quickly disavowed the statements allegedly made by the two officials marking the second time in three weeks the Trump administration has had to shoot down carbon tax rumors.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	Most Republicans dont buy into a carbon tax.	False
'Not the cause of it but the things that we observe.'	'To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced' Pruitt said.	'Causality is something outside my ability to analyze right now' Bossert also added.	On Sunday Sen. John McCain R Fla. who has preached bipartisanship in recent months on the heels of his cancer diagnosis told CNN's Jake Tapper that he didn't know why his Republican colleagues were denying climate change adding that it was 'time to sit down.'	'I'm not sure specifically on the Paris climate deal but as he said at the time the goal is to always do the very best when taking care of the environment and taking proper steps' Huckabee Sanders replied.	True
An analysis done by his own Environmental Protection Agency EPA concludes that the rollback of Obama era pollution controls will lead to many more people dying and suffering health problems that they otherwise would not have.	Our politicians are beholden to coal.	Meanwhile our people are being poisoned she said.	Individual states will decide how much to regulate coal power plants in their own states.	Our state is beholden to coal.	False
It helps give other islanders something to think about Ritter explains.	I think part of the benefit of a detailed audit like this is that it increases everyone's mindfulness about what they are doing with food says Gordon Jackson the manager of the resort's Waste to Wealth initiative.	This has really helped everybody throughout the food and beverage team and the organization as a whole just to think about what they are doing.	Compost is also shared with staff for use at their homes.	In May I experienced one hotel's efforts firsthand as I stood on the roof at ITC Maurya a hotel in Delhi.	False
Researchers believe that changes to the Earth's orbit may be partly responsible for some of the Earth's cooling but additional factors have likely played a part Jensen added.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	Theres no shortage of ideas about how this happens but its not quite clear how they all fit together.	One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement.	AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING NEW STUDY FINDS What this suggests is that its a feedback loop said the study's lead author Alice Marzocchi.	False
And Paul Bledsoe a strategic adviser at the Progressive Policy Institute said progressives were overcompensating.	My personal view is that undermines the credibility of the effort.	Speaking at an eventcommemoratingMartin Luther King Day that monthOcasio Cortez asserted thatclimate change constituted our World War II and added Millennials and people you know Gen Z and all these folks that will come after us are looking up and were like The world is gonna end in 12 years if we dont address climate change and your biggest issue is how are we gonna pay for it?'	I understand the value of aspirational goals Bledsoesaid.	On Twitter Monday Ocasio Cortez reposted a claim from one of her advisersRobert Hockett arguing that in this case size matters and that the problems the Green New Deal addresses require solutions where bigger is better imperative and paraodixcally more affordable.	False
The Trump Administration's persistent and indefensible denial of climate change and their continued assault on actions essential to stemming its increasing devastation is reprehensible and I will use every available legal tool to fight their dangerous agenda said Schneiderman a Democrat.	New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman was among those who said they will sue.	Pruitt was among about two dozen attorney generals who sued to stop Obama's 2014 push to limit carbon emissions stymieing the limits from ever taking effect.	That was the right thing to do.	A lot of damage has been done said McConnell a Kentucky Republican.	True
You know what theres not is a shall for I shall manage the land to stop climate change or something similar to that he said pointing the finger at Congress.	Rep. Betty McCollum D Minn. the subcommittees chair quoted from the U.N. report and told Bernhardt the country is depending on you to help lead the fight along with us to combat these issues including the biodiversity and climate crises.	If you have a view on what you want to happen well carry it out when you execute it.	But a good portion of the discussion focused on climate change environmental protections and an ethics investigation against Bernhardt and several other agency officials.	Bernhardt a former oil and gas lobbyist who was confirmed as agency secretary last month told the subcommittee that he recognizes that the climate is changing that human beings are a contributing factor and that the agency is taking the threat into account in its decision making.	True
Lawyers at the Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Transportation on Friday sent a letter to the chairman of the California Air Resources Board following California's July framework agreement with Ford Volkswagen Honda and BMW to abide by certain new greenhouse gas emissions standards.	Given the importance Congress placed on the authority of DOT and EPA for motor vehicle fuel economy and nationwide vehicle emissions standards under federal law we urge you to act immediately to disassociate CARB from the commitments made by the four automakers the letter added.	That's a false choice and it's one that you've talked about Mr. President.	Congress has squarely vested the authority to set fuel economy standards for new motor vehicles and nationwide standards for GHG vehicle emissions with the federal government not with California or any other state.	The purpose of this letter is to put California on notice that this framework agreement appears to be inconsistent with federal law the letter said.	True
The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg.	Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission.	So how do climate activists get their way?	Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of deniers.	The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation.	True
To not say anything about it is just ignorance and its irresponsible.	However Bernie Sanders in his own response speech noted warnings in reports from the UNs Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.	It was something that was going to happen when peoples grandchildren were alive.	Joel Clement who resigned from the interior department because he said the administration was muzzling scientists and ignoring climate change effects on vulnerable communities now works with the Union of Concerned Scientists.	The Trump administrations strategy is to ignore climate change and pretend it doesnt exist and pretend the science doesnt exist even if its coming from its own agencies Clement said.	False
A defense against believing humans are responsible for climate change is that scientific studies are not 100 certain a stance frequently used by members of the Trump administration that muddles the scientific consensus that man made emissions are driving global warming.	Instead the USGS release leaves the cause unmentioned .	It is hypocritical said Andrew Rosenberg director for the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists.	Asked Wednesday if Trump thinks human activity is contributing to climate change White House press secretary Sean Spicer responded Honestly I haven't asked him that.	So no I would not agree that it's a primary contributor to the global warming that we see.	True
With this report the Lung Association also calls out Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency EPA for ongoing threats to the nations air quality including steps to roll back or weaken enforcement of the Clean Air Act.	We still have a lot to do in this country to clean up air pollution said Lyndsay Moseley Alexander director of the Association's Healthy Air Campaign.	California has done more than any other state to counteract air pollution the Lung Association said.	EPA administrator Scott Pruitt hastaken many steps to roll back or put in loopholes to the Clean Air Act Alexander said adding thattheassociation is concerned and we will continueto fight forhealthy air she said.	Overall the report said about133 million Americans more than four of 10 live with unhealthful levels of air pollution placing them at risk for premature death and other serious health effects such as lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm.	False
Research Fellow Dr Katie Davis an evolutionary palaeobiologist at the University of York explained Understanding the processes that shaped the strikingly irregular distribution of species richness across the Tree of Life is a major research agenda.	Co author Sammy de Grave head of research at the Oxford University Museum added The study was published in the journal Communications Biology.	There are depending upon estimates between two and 50 million extant species of animals Metazoa all derived from a single common ancestral species that lived some 650 million years ago.	Professor of Evolutionary Paleobiology Matthew Wills at the Milner Centre for Evolution at the University of Bath said We are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of a magnitude unparalleled since the asteroid impact that wiped out the dinosaurs.	For example why are there over a million species of insects but only 32 species in their immediate sister group the little known remipedes?	False
The Associated Press contributed to this report.	My action today will cut through the destructive permitting and denials Trump said during the signing of the executive orders at the International Union of Operating Engineers International Training and Education Center a union run facility in Crosby Texas.	When states say 'no' to the development of natural gas pipelines they force utilities to curb safe and affordable service and refuse access to new customers including new businesses said Karen Harbert president and CEO at the American Gas Association.	Trump's move comes less than a week after nearly a dozen business groups told EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler that the environmental review and permitting process for energy infrastructure projects has become a target for environmental activists and states that oppose the production and use of fossil fuels.	The White House has sought to stave off any discord by arguing that the order is not meant to take power away from the states but to ensure that state actions follow the intent of the Clean Water Act.	False
We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future?	As one of Florida's leading environmental researchers Dr. Frazer understands the unique water issues facing our state and the actions we must take to solve them he said Monday.	And the idea that you're signing up for some type of agenda I don't want to ... send a signal that that's what I'm doing because I'm not doing that DeSantis said .	Frazer will have his work cut out for him.	DeSantis appointed Thomas Frazer a biologist who has been director of the University of Florida's School of Natural Resources and Environment since 2012 and previously worked as acting director of the UF Water Institute In the new position he will coordinate Florida's research data and scientific work and make sure officials have the scientific analysis they need to tackle the state's environmental problems.	False
When the threat arose yesterday people were still doing their activities on the beach and did not immediately run and they became victims he told a news briefing.	Indonesia's meteorological agency has been criticised for its response but officials said the waves struck while the warning was in place.	The tsunami didn't come by itself it dragged cars logs houses it hit everything on land.	There is a ship washed ashore said Dwikorita Karnawati head of Indonesia's meteorology and geophysics agency.	You can also contact us in the following ways	False
WildEarth Guardians Physicians for Social Responsibility and the Western Environmental Law Center sued the BLM in 2016 for failing to calculate and limit the amount of greenhouse gas emissions from future oil and gas projects.	He added that the agency must consider the cumulative impact of GHG greenhouse gas emissions generated by past present and future BLM leases across the country.	The decision stems from an environmental lawsuit.	The Western Energy Alliance one of the defendants in the case also did not respond to a request.	Nichols predicts there will be implications for public lands across the west.	False
But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a dramatic fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes.	Over the past decade previous governments in Brazil had managed to reduce deforestation with concerted action by federal agencies and a system of fines.	They say the president favours development over conservation.	Far right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe.	Scientists say the Amazon has suffered losses at an accelerated rate since Mr Bolsonaro took office in January.	False
Rather than acknowledging the role of climate change in increasing fire risks he blamed environmental terrorist groups while calling for more private logging on public lands.	Taken together its pretty clear who Zinke is working for.	We should be in the business of being a partner.	Zinke is one the most ethically challenged members of the Cabinet and maybe one of the most ethically challenged secretaries of the Interior weve had in living memory Rep. Gerry Connolly D VA who could chair the House Oversight Government Operations Subcommittee if Democrats win in November told Politico this week.	Theres rich material here to look into his behavior and his fitness for continued service in the office.	False
who staked out a climate policy based on a bill to force public companies to disclose financial risk from warming or regulations to curb emissions.	And a new majority of Democratic stateattorneys general are facing growing pressure to file lawsuits over climate damages.	What we are seeing is a growing consciousness Sanders said.	Activists freshly galvanized by the hellscape images of Californias deadliest wildfire seem primed for action and the partys progressive wing has signaled a new willingness to force a more serious debate over an issue thats remained stagnant in the House for much of the past decade.	If you think of Bernie youd think hed be talking about inequality or civil rights.	False
Kim Ross ReThink Energy Florida leader resident witnessed people in her communityinTallahasseefeeling helpless after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster which damaged Gulf Coast ecosystems.	This is something thats happening now and needs to be addressed now.	Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because climate change is an issue that affects every other issue agriculture the economy including tourism.	Melissa Baldwin co organizer of Miami Climate Month which organized the rally says from the moment she and her fellow organizers found out the first debate would be in Miami they wanted to put a spotlight on climate change because you cant come to Miami without talking about climate change.	A coalition of local environmental groups organized the march to the Arsht Center in Miami where this round of debates is being held with marchers sporting signs calling for a specific climate change debate and pushing for the Green New Deal.	False
GRETA THUNBERG TURNS DOWN ENVIRONMENTAL PRIZE SAYS 'CLIMATE MOVEMENT DOES NOT NEED ANY MORE AWARDS' Half of the countries that were legally bound to the Kyoto Protocol treaty failed to adhere to their pledges and the host country of Japan even increased their carbon emissions Sen. Jim Inhofe R Okla. said as the Paris climate agreement was being debated in 2016.	Our results speak for themselves he wrote.	Others however see America backing out of the international pact to limit greenhouse gas emissions as an abdication of global leadership and denial of basic climate science.	We even turn a blind eye to the fact that China lied about its carbon emissions when it first came to the table with its pledge last year.	They rely for so much and we would be giving them so little.	False
Backed into a corner Pruitt conceded that CO2 does contribute to global warming although he followed up this concession by saying The issue is how much we contribute to it from a human activity perspective and what can be done about it from a process perspective.	Unable to give a straight answer Pruitt first admitted that human activity does contribute to the current warming trend.	The Fox News Sunday anchor went on to reference a report from the U.N. that says it is 95 percent likely that human activity has caused the majority of the warming that has taken place since the mid 20th century.	What if in fact the Earth is warming what if it is causing dramatic climate change and that we as humans through carbon emissions are contributing to it?	And the question I have is what if youre wrong?	False
She also cites Franklin D. Roosevelts New Deal Lyndon B. Johnsons Great Society and the interstate highway system begun under Dwight D. Eisenhower as examples of American know how and capability.	Ocasio Cortez said in a statement that the plan will create unprecedented levels of prosperity and wealth for all while ensuring economic and environmental justice and security.	Government can take an equity stake in Green New Deal projects so the public gets a return on its investment she said.	The freshman lawmaker and veteran Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts are teaming up on the plan which aims to eliminate the U.S. carbon footprint by 2030.	The resolution does not include a price tag but some Republicans predict it would cost in the trillions of dollars.	False
But Gore's and Ivanka's influence clearly was not enough.	Won't necessarily do you any good for me to tell you that the scientists do say the sea level is rising in the Chesapeake Bay and that you've lost about two thirds of your island already.	...	Arguments about science aren't necessarily going to be of any comfort to you Gore said.	I try every day to figure out ways to do that he said.	False
Whether those claims should be handled in court presents substantial grounds for difference of opinion the court said then.	Lawyers for Our Children's Trust have argued that government policies have deprived the children of their constitutional rights to life liberty and propertyto dignity to personal security to a stable climate system capable of sustaining human lives and liberties.	Legal whiz kid or partisan hack?	Their alleged injuries stem from the cumulative effects of CO2emissions from every source in the world over decades.	Courts have an obligation not to overstep the bounds of their jurisdiction but they have an equally important duty to fulfill their role as a check on any unconstitutional actions of the other branches of government she said last monthin denying the government's effort to stall or dismiss the trial.	False
Our community and our planet are under attack yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate.	While federal regulators acknowledge the risks of crude by rail they have taken few steps toward increasing safety Inslee wrote in an op ed for the Columbian last year.	Railroads engage in interstate commerce which means the buck stops with the federal government.	In 2014 the state of Washington passed legislation to increase track and hazardous material inspections require oil spill contingency plans increase funding for prevention and cleanup of oil spills and improve safety at crossings along oil train routes.	Inslee urged Congress and the US Department of Transportation to implement even tougher regulations including lower speed limits for high hazard flammable trains and to use safer cars that are strong enough to protect volatile contents from the heat of a fire or the impact of a collision.	False
The report the Fourth National Climate Assessment Volume II supplements a study issued last year that concluded humans are the main driver of global warming and which warned of potentially catastrophic effects to the planet.	The Congressionally mandated report written with the help of more than a dozen U.S. government agencies and departments outlined the projected impacts of global warming in every corner of American society in a dire warning at odds with the Trump administrations pro fossil fuels agenda.	Trump and several members of his cabinet have also repeatedly cast doubt on the science of climate change arguing the causes and impacts are not yet settled.	Severe weather and other impacts also increase the risk of disease transmission decrease air quality and can increase mental health problems among other effects.	The entire report can be viewed at	False
For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Methane makes up 10 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for global warming.	Republican lawmakers worried the Obama era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more.	False
Thats despite the fact that the 38 page document projects more frequent and more expensive disasters.	Now it looks like were condemned to repeat it.	But it wasnt so coy in its previous 2014 2018 strategic plan which noted that the agency will also ensure that future risks including those influenced by climate change are effectively integrated into the Agencys risk assessment resources and processes.	This is a glaring omission from an agency that deals with anticipating and responding to weather extremes driven in part by a changing climate.	Its not just rhetoric.	False
Global warming was blamed for intensifying natural disasters that killed dozens and cost billions of dollars across the country in 2018.	One of the most notable achievements they toutwas passage of a tax credit to encourage the capture and storage of carbon emissions into the ground before they become airborne and contribute to global warming.	When we talk about what's at stake here we're talking about unimaginable suffering by the American people unless we solve the problem over the next 12 years he said recently.	The shift from 'future problem'to 'now crisis'is being fueled by blockbuster scientific reports and blockbuster real world catastrophes.	And Rooney said the intransigence most of his fellow Republicans including President Trumpdisplay on the issue is harmful to the GOP brand and could come back to haunt them in 2020.	False
ETC has focused its activism on the Paris climate agreement which President Obama signed onto without Senate approval.	The chief avenue the group advocates to cut global warming is to force governments around the world to place an ever growing tax on carbon emissions as a means to force change in energy policy.	The group is made up of energy company executives activists investment bankers Al Gore and others who would financially benefit from the immense influx of funds the Daily Caller reports.	Trumps Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt has urged the president to exit the agreement and at least one climate scientist Dr. Duane Thresher has warned Trump not to cave in to his daughters climate change madness.	The group also calls for direct investment in green energy.	False
I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice.	I believe I am the only person here who will say unequivocally this is my number one priority Steyer continued.	I know that we have to deal with this crisis.	Steyer also called on Mayor Pete Buttigieg another Democrat presidential hopeful to put more emphasis on climate change saying the people in his generation understand that this is a crisis that we have to go on right now and reinvent America.	Steyer then claimed he had previously taken on oil companies and beaten them on environmental laws and pushed clean energy across this country.	False
Its not just the future of the planet thats at stake here.	But whats largely been lost in the conversation is how much the attempt to repeal the regulation on carbon dioxide emissions will impact peoples health.	The public health community should be there too.	Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt is expected to sign a proposed rule on Tuesday that would roll back a key piece of President Obamas climate legacy.	According to the Global Burden of Disease project more than 5 million people die worldwide each year because of air pollution and emissions from coal fired plants are a major risk factor here.	False
In June three human rights groups accused BNP Paribas of complicity in the 1994 Rwandan genocide that killed more than 800000 people.	In 2015 the company was ordered to pay 8.9 billion to the U.S. for violating sanctions against Sudan Cuba and Iran.	Last month JPMorgan Chase became the target of a new campaign urging it to end financing for companies that drill tar sands a particularly dirty source of oil that forms the backbone of Canadas industry.	Were a long standing partner to the energy sector and were determined to support the transition to a more sustainable world BNP Paribas CEO Jean Laurent Bonnaf said in a statement.As an international bank our role is to help drive the energy transition and contribute to the decarbonization of the economy.	In July the Federal Reserve fined the firm 246 million for its unsafe and unsound practices in foreign currency trading division failing to crack down on employees who violated rules on sharing information with competitors.	False
California Gov.	As president I have one obligation and that obligation is to the Americanpeople Trump said during a speech in theRose Garden announcingthe decision.	Withdrawal from the agreement marks a critical step in unraveling former President Obamas destructive legacy Needham said.	California for example has stood out with its toughest in the nation vehicle emissions laws that often effectively establish auto industrystandards nationwide.	Not only did Obama make this agreement without approval from Congress but in doing so he handed more control of Americas energy to foreign officials.	False
No one doubts that there was real liability in the case but Dark Waters is a conspiracy horror movie that ignores facts to shake up its audience.	If conservatives wind up losing elections and thereby ceding public policy to the Left they will have only themselves to blame for ignoring the war over popular culture that has been steering younger voters to think in more radical terms.	They can then be made a juicy target for both trial lawyers and government regulators.	When they are not being greedy or trying to dominate the world they are responsible for polluting the planet.	Narratives like the ones above dont get turned into stories by accident.	False
Last month the EPA circulated talking points instructing its staffers to say clear gaps exist in understanding whether human activity contributes to climate change.	The decision was praised by industry officials who had called on Pruitt to revisit the rules but environmental groups said he was caving to special interests in the coal industry.	Put together Pruitt's moves some of which have been challenged in court represent an attempt to fundamentally restructure the EPA's role in Washington and are a sharp rebuke of the environmental legacy of former President Barack Obama.	The weakening of automobile standards which is a win for car manufacturers and a blow to environmentalists also sets up a fight between the Trump administration and the state of California which says it plans to stick with the stricter rules.	Pushing to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord Pruitt pushed the White House to leave the Paris climate deal stood beside the President in the Rose Garden when he announced the decision and after the President spoke offered his own remarks.	False
Mr. ORourke was less clear about whether he believes people in his home state of Texas should be prevented from living in vulnerable flood areas.	Asylum laws Mr. ORourke said should include those who have been impacted by climate change.	I reject any notion that we have to radically or fundamentally change how we eat or what we eat I think we just have to be more responsible in the way that we do it and the best way to do that is to allow the market to respond by setting a price on carbon he said.	He said the government should help people move but avoided answering a question from the moderator Don Lemon about whether some areas were simply too risky for human habitation.	The former Texas congressman was also one of the few candidates who explicitly tied Hurricane Dorian to newly proposed policies.	False
Jobs matter!'	Our work is not done.'	This point was reiterated later in a somewhat defensive tweet.	By comparison last year President Obama's message in 2016 took on an urgent tone and said 'Human activity is disrupting the climate and the challenge of combating climate change is one that will define the contours of our time.'	He said in the second paragraph 'economic growth enhances environmental protection.'	False
for failing to properly control methane pollution a greenhouse gas.	Mr. Schneidermans big accomplishment in going after Wall Street were the billions of dollars in penalties that he helped secure from big banks that had sold flawed mortgage backed bonds during the run up to the financial crisis.	His legal team was one of the first in the nation to target banks for sponsoring nontransparent trading platforms called dark pools which allowed high speed trading firms to take advantage of investors.	In 2016 Mr. Schneiderman and the Securities and Exchange Commission announced a 154 million settlement with Barclays and Credit Suisse to resolve allegations that the banks had permitted traders to misuse their dark pool platforms.	Three years ago he opened an investigation with the Massachusetts attorney general into whether Exxon Mobil deliberately misled the public and investors about the impact of climate change.	False
We need to connect the dots Castro said Wednesday.	Ive connected the dots of actually preserving more of our lands both for the benefit of wildlife and for our benefit to combat climate change.	Sen. Elizabeth Warren D Mass.	But nearly all have policy proposals that drive home the need for the nation to be a better environmental steward.	The next president must be ready to lead the climate response we need to see on our shared lands and waters Huntley said.	False
Former New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman led a coalition of more than a dozen states in investigating ExxonMobil over allegations it misled the public about climate change.	Fossil fuel executives should be criminally prosecuted for the destruction they have knowingly caused Sanders tweeted.	Sen. Bernie Sanders I Vt. upped the ante in his progressive agenda on Thursday when he signaled support forcriminal charges against executives at oil companies.	Pitting important environmental goals against working families who rely on affordable American energy is a false choice the organization said.	That turned into a federal lawsuit alleging the oil giant defrauded its shareholders with its messaging on climate change.Schneiderman resigned in 2018 amid allegations of physical abuse but legal battles continued to swirl around the company.	False
Dr. Matt Amesbury also of the University of Exeter said there were two main findings to take from their new study scale and temperature sensitivity Before now studies have been from single sites but using a transect of sites weve been able to show that this significant response to climate change is pervasive across the whole of the Antarctic Peninsula.	another clear sign that the biology of the planet is changing as a result of warming temperatures said Professor Dan Charman of the University of Exeter who led the research project.	Or so it has been for thousands of years.	A Green Island moss bank with icebergs.Credit Matt Amesbury Antarctica is a cold white continent at the bottom of the world.	The second important point is our finding which suggests that moss growth has been highly sensitive to temperature change since the 1950sunder future warming scenarios this means we are likely to see a greening of the Antarctic Peninsula both in terms of further increases in growth rates and also expansion of mosses and other plant life.	False
But only those deniers get accused of not believing in science.	The point is that opponents dont like this science because of the political and social consequences of it.	Anyway what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning.	READ MORE How to Recognize Science Denial Progressives Claim to Love Science But What They Truly Love Is Power Climate Change Activists Are the Real Science Deniers Jonah Goldberg is a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior editor at National Review.	Who says?	False
'Importantly as a result of the Paris agreement both developed and developing countries are now working together to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions' he said then 'while recognizing differing national responsibilities capacities and circumstances.'	'Any time that people were taking money out of your pocket and you make them put it back in they're not going to be happy.	'It's important that the U.S. maintains its seat at the table about how to address the threat of climate change which does require a global response' Tillerson said then.	And that's what's happening here' he said.	Addressing these risks requires broad based practical solutions around the world.'	False
Wheeler said he believes climate change is a problem but that it had been overblown by former President Barack Obamas administration at the expense of other bigger issues like water quality.	Youre right there could very well be a new generation coming up saying thats the only environmental issue and its not he said.	I think what is effective regulation is one that follows the law and one that will be held up in court he said.	He said while he encouraged EPA scientists to carry out and publish research he stressed the recent paper did not reflect EPA policy.	Asked whether the replacement the Affordable Clean Energy rule which gives states responsibility for regulating emissions is stringent enough Wheeler said it adheres to the parameters of federal law.	False
We sure appreciate the help from the NRCC in calling out politicians who take dirty fossil fuel money and then obstruct progress on climate change and are looking forward to similar NRCC ads attacking every single one of their own candidates said RL Miller Climate Hawks Votes political director in a statement.	The ad was released on Oct. 30 and immediatelynational environmental groups that generally align with Democrats called foul underscoring their support of Curbelos Democratic challenger Debbie Mucarsel Powell.	In one of South Floridascongressional districts the party machine swept in to prop up a two term incumbent by painting his opponent as a puppet of fossil fuel interests and dirty coal money.	If Curbelo had been half the climate champion he claims he is he wouldnt be desperately seeking an ad littered with lies such as this said Sierra Club PAC Director Sarah Burton in a statement.	1 donorhas been NextEra Energy the Florida electric utility which is one of the largest purveyors of solar and wind energy projects in the country.	False
However there appears to be little consensus among scientific researchers.	READ MORE 4 dead as Hurricane Irma rocks Florida leaving 3.5mn without power PHOTOS VIDEOS Most of the major hurricanes that have impacted the US originated in Cape Verde a nation on a volcanic archipelago off the northwest coast of Africa according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA.	Hurricane Sandy and Hurricane Andrew began life as tropical waves off the coast of west Africa.	However expects it to result in more intense tropical cyclones globally with substantially higher rainfall rates by the end of the 21st century.	Atlantic hurricane season has reached its peak and as Florida deals with devastation wrought by Irma RT takes a look at where the phenomena come from and if they are really becoming more frequent?	False
After all these findings are based on how we are doing things now he says.	Specifically O'Neill and his fellow researchers ran statistical tests to determine for each environmental measure how much damage it takes to produce a corresponding improvement on each of the social well being indicators.	What does this all mean for humanity?	A much better approach argues O'Neill would be to focus on redistributing the wealth we already have more equitably.	Instead says O'Neill generally the countries that do well on the social indicators do so by consuming resources at a level that could not be extended to all people on the planet.	False
The CO2 Coalition a right wing think tank that Happer co founded and that argues Earth benefits from humans pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere confirmedhis upcoming resignation in a Tuesday post to its website and praised him for his efforts.	He has long argued that the planet and humans benefit from increased carbon dioxide emissions.	The CO2 Coalition is one of several think tanks that peddle misinformation about climate change and receive funding from the Mercer familythe billionaire megadonors whogave more than 15 million to Trumps 2016 campaign.	Earlier this year TrumptappedHapper to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting adversarial scientific peer review of climate science part of the administrations relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis.	He has called climate science a cult claimed Earth is in the midst of a CO2 famine and said the demonization of carbon dioxide isjust like the demonization of the poor Jewsunder Hitler.	False
But most of the responsibility lies with industry not individuals she said adding this is exactly what the fossil fuel industry wants us to talk about.	He claimed the supporter is not a corporate executive.	Their answers and reactions to them foreshadowed the fight ahead with conservatives and industry regardless of who becomes the next president.	We should be organizing the world demanding change we need a diplomat in chief Biden said.	Nothing.	False
And both FEMA administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering when asked Tuesday whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of the storms.	That same report however found that human activity may have already caused changes and that global warming will likely cause tropical cyclones globally to be more intense on average and lead to an increase in the occurrence of very intense tropical cyclones.	Top Trump administration officials have repeatedly dodged questions about how climate change affected the damage done by hurricanes Harvey and Irma saying the issue should be discussed at a later date.	EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt said last week it was insensitive to address global warming at this time.	The storm and subsequent damage could end up being the costliest natural disaster in US history.	False
Recently a policy briefing from the world leading Woods Hole Research Center has moved our understanding of this risk further through a clearly written summary.	It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self reinforcing cycle takes over.	A policy briefing from the Woods Hole Research Center concludes that the IPCC doesnt adequately account for a methane warming feedback While most attention has been given to carbon dioxide it isnt the only greenhouse gas that scientists are worried about.	Consequently an initial warming leads to more emission leading to more warming and more emission.	Even as some scientists are still looking at what happened during the second half of the 20th century at a scale of change over decades others are beginning to address the significant acceleration of changes observed year by year.	False
Published with permission of The American Independent.	Who loses out?	We stand for spreading the word about the science we do especially when it has a potential impact on millions and millions of people.	Now farmers may also feel the brunt of the pain from not receiving information about how to cope with the changing environment.	The people who are already suffering the impacts of sea level rise and unprecedented super storms droughts wildfires and heat waves.	False
It is after all the measure of ones moral fitness to value some things say forgiveness over others vengeance.	We all hold a hierarchy of values.	To commit the soul of the decedent to his final reward?	We make decisions every day accordingly.	Or an opportunity to extolyour passion for environmental justice?	False
Putting a price on carbon can help change the behavior of polluters.	For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	Much like the new bipartisan bill Curbelos was doomed to fail from the beginning and he endured attack ads from the right for even introducing it.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	While the bill has little chance of passing it is intended to spark a debate over carbon pricing as the Democratic Party prepares to take over the lower chamber of Congress.	False
NRDC has filed its fair share of lawsuits against Trump as well.	The Natural Resources Defense Council NRDC for example played a pivotal role in crafting the Clean Power Plan which became Obamas signature global warming policy.	Trump can expect more lawsuits as he continues to rollback Obama era policies.	Earthjustice and CBD joined LCVs suit against Trumps EPA.	CBD also sued for Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitts emails and schedule.	False
Lets take a closer look at this.	To Janet this is a moral issue.	But its quite another thing when you live your entire Congressional career as one big liea lie that causes long term harm not only to the folks living in your district but the country as a whole.	These were matters that we have historically agreed on if for no other reason than the sake of our children and grandchildrens future.	And heres why Jordan will live on in villainy.	False
The text of the rule change lays out the committees jurisdiction and required areas of action.	Early on under Jurisdiction the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national industrial economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality.	Editors Note This post has been updated with grammatical fixes.	More Ocasio Cortez sees this plan is being a vehicle through which social equality might finally realized through theuse of reparations to right historicalinjustices.	Under Scope of the Plan a section on labor states the committees final plan shall Require strong enforcement of labor workplace safety and wage standards that recognize the rights of workers to organize and unionize free of coercion intimidation and harassment and creation of meaningful quality career employment.	False
Its a challenging issue.	Its also an inclusive scoping because it includes people in the industry that have jobs communities that are impacted from an environmental justice prism but also from an economic justice prism.	I get the idea of taking a lead on this issue and I think many companies agree with this she said.	But at what cost is this being done especially when nobody else is doing anything.	Newsomunderstands the importance of an industry to the 40 million people who will be driving 26 million combustible engines tomorrow.	False
But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes the BBC reports.	Wildfires are common in the dry season but are also deliberately set by farmers illegally deforesting land for cattle ranching.	I used to be called Captain Chainsaw.	Over the past decade previous governments had managed to reduce deforestation with action by federal agencies and a system of fines.	Last monththe far right president accused Inpes director of lying about the scale of deforestationin the Amazon and trying to undermine the government.	False
The Washington Posts editorial board in an article titled Yes you can blame President Trump for Hurricane Florence even went so far as to say Trump was complicit for the storm.	The reason the Washington Post and others are consistently alleging despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary that Republicans are somehow to blame for natural disasters such as Hurricane Florence is either because they know absolutely nothing about the topic or because they believe it will help Democrats win elections.	In article after article pundits have claimed Republicans especially President Donald Trump are in some way responsible for Hurricane Florence.	As Roy Spencer Ph.D. an acclaimed climate scientist who previously worked for NASA recently stated The fact that there has been no long term change in global hurricane activity and even a 50 percent decrease in U.S. landfalling major hurricanes over the last 80 years means no one is complicit in these storms.	And if all that werent enough its absolutely absurd to say Trump is any way responsible for global warming because even if it is true humans are the primary cause of warming carbon dioxide emissions actually dropped in Trumps first two years in office.	False
They only end up making an ass out of u and mption'.	Okay so as you probably know animal agriculture is to blame for the majority of climate change and is the leading cause of deforestation water and air pollution and biodiversity loss.	So we will certainly youre right weve got to look at agriculture weve got to look at every cause of the crisis that we face.	You may be completely shocked to learn that Bernie Sanders responded by affirming that indeed America needs to be more like the nation that brought us Hitler the Holocaust and the VW Bug only one of those things is good by the way.	Because as the great Samuel L. Jackson once uttered on film Never make assumptions.	False
