30	nationalreview	right_bias	2019-04-24	What do they want?	Fifth, to end oppression and bring about the redistribution of power.	Fourth, to secure healthy food and a livable climate for everyone.	When do they want it?	Perhaps this frustration explains why Adam Boulton, a presenter on Sky News, told an Extinction Rebellion organizer, Robin Boardman, on live TV that the protesters come across as "incompetent middle-class, self-indulgent people" trying to "tell us how to live our lives."	Third, to invest and update industry and infrastructure. <sep> (1) For Britain to declare a "climate and ecological emergency," (2) for Britain to commit to net zero carbon dioxide emissions by 2025, and (3) for a special climate-change "citizens' assembly" to decide future environmental policies. <sep> Instead of explaining why this perception is wrong, Boardman insisted, with his hand on his heart, that he cared "deeply," before storming off the set. <sep> Now, if Ms. Thunberg — who is 16 years old — had been addressing Chinese, American, or Indian protesters, I might have had some sympathy. <sep> 	The U.K.'s Version of the Green New Deal Has No Idea What It's Doing The 'Extinction Rebellion' protesters aren't helping their cause.'THIS IS AN EMERGENCY," warns the website of the Extinction Rebellion, a group of climate-change activists whose civil disobedience has included gluing themselves to a train and to Jeremy Corbyn's fence, nailing a pink boat to the ground in Oxford Circus, pouring fake blood outside Downing Street, holding a "die in" at London's Natural History Museum, and camping beneath the city's Marble Arch. What do they want? (1) For Britain to declare a "climate and ecological emergency," (2) for Britain to commit to net zero carbon dioxide emissions by 2025, and (3) for a special climate-change "citizens' assembly" to decide future environmental policies. When do they want it? Now." e are now facing an existential crisis, the climate crisis and ecological crisis which have never been treated as crises before, they have been ignored for decades," said Greta Thunberg, a Swedish activist, addressing London demonstrators. "And for way too long the politicians and the people in power have gotten away with not doing anything." Now, if Ms. Thunberg — who is 16 years old — had been addressing Chinese, American, or Indian protesters, I might have had some sympathy. But to suggest that Britain has "ignored [climate change] for decades" is simply untrue. Since 1990, the country has achieved a 38 percent decrease in carbon dioxide emissions and has reduced its annual emissions by more than 43 percent (this, despite considerable economic growth). While the Paris Agreement sets the aim for net zero carbon dioxide emissions by the year 2050 and net zero greenhouse gases by 2070, Parliament in 2008 introduced the Climate Change Act, which commits the United Kingdom to reducing its annual emissions by at least 80 percent by 2050. The U.K. has also removed coal as a major electricity source.I am sympathetic to the first of their aims: making the environment a political priority and declaring climate change to be a global emergency. (Scientists may not be infallible, but I've seen no credible argument for why they are all wrong in the same way.)However, much like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's Green New Deal, the demands of the Extinction Rebellion are risibly overreaching and counterproductive. In fact, their demands could be realized only through an immediate economic overhaul by people who have yet to prove their competence. Recall the five goals set out in the Green New Deal as part of a ten-year plan. First, to achieve net zero greenhouse-gas emissions while providing quality jobs for all. Second, to guarantee millions of good, high-wage jobs and economic security. Third, to invest and update industry and infrastructure. Fourth, to secure healthy food and a livable climate for everyone. Fifth, to end oppression and bring about the redistribution of power. Recall, also, the much-criticized supporting FAQ materials produced by Ocasio-Cortez's office. Embarrassing clauses about "farting cows," airplanes, and those "unwilling to work" aside, this document was illuminating because it showed that those who devised the Green New Deal have, in practical terms, no clue what they are doing. The same is true of the Extinction Rebellion. The entire spectacle has been highly disruptive for businesses and law enforcement alone." 'm extremely concerned about the impact that the protests are having on our ability to tackle issues like violent crime if they continue any longer," said Sadiq Khan, London's mayor, who has estimated that around 9,000 police officers have been dispatched to deal with the protesters. The police have made over 1,000 arrests. Perhaps this frustration explains why Adam Boulton, a presenter on Sky News, told an Extinction Rebellion organizer, Robin Boardman, on live TV that the protesters come across as "incompetent middle-class, self-indulgent people" trying to "tell us how to live our lives." Instead of explaining why this perception is wrong, Boardman insisted, with his hand on his heart, that he cared "deeply," before storming off the set. Yes, Boulton was aggressive and accusatory, but so are the tactics of the Extinction Rebellion.	True
559	rt	questionable_source	2018-03-21	Like this story?	Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale, arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers.	The oil industry welcomed the lease sale, with Randall Luthi of the trade group National Oceanic Industry Association noting that the sale on Wednesday "may draw more interest from industry than we have seen in recent years."	eople need jobs, the Gulf Coast states need revenue, and Americans do not want to be dependent on foreign oil."	Share it with a friend!		'Next Deepwater Horizon disaster a matter of time': Critics slam record offshore oil lease sale The Trump administration has held the biggest lease sale of oil and gas in US history. Environmentalists fear the auction will massively expand fossil fuel production and could lead to the next Deepwater disaster. President Donald Trump on Wednesday sold more than 77 million acres of federal waters in the Gulf of Mexico for offshore oil drilling, an area twice the size of Florida. The lease sale forms part of the Trump administration's plans to increase domestic energy production by opening up new areas for oil drilling. Oil drilling in the Gulf of Mexico became increasingly controversial after the BP Deepwater Horizon disaster in 2010, which killed 11 workers and released millions of barrels of crude oil into the Gulf of Mexico. The catastrophe caused  $17.2 billion-worth of damage to natural resources, according to a study in 2017 commissioned by the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Critics of the sale fear the expansion in offshore drilling could devastate marine life and lead to roll-backs in environmental protections. "Trump is selling off our oceans and selling out coastal communities and marine life to the oil industry," said Kristen Monsell, oceans program legal director at the Center for Biological Diversity." ore drilling and less regulation will make the next Deepwater Horizon disaster only a matter of time. Whales, dolphins and Gulf seafood are already marinating in oil spills and industry wastewater," she added. The Interior Department said the sell-off is necessary if America is to maintain energy independence. "American energy production can be competitive," said Vincent DeVito, an energy policy advisor at the Interior Department." eople need jobs, the Gulf Coast states need revenue, and Americans do not want to be dependent on foreign oil." he said. The Gulf of Mexico provides the US with around 1.5 million barrels of oil per day, or roughly 17 percent of its national production total, according to the Energy Information Administration. US  crude oil output has grown by more than 20 percent since mid-2016. The oil industry welcomed the lease sale, with Randall Luthi of the trade group National Oceanic Industry Association noting that the sale on Wednesday "may draw more interest from industry than we have seen in recent years." Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale, arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers. The Project on Government Oversight warned in February that the 'uncompetitive' lease system used by the government to auction sites allows energy companies to "secure offshore leases for a pittance." It cautioned that the sale in the Gulf of Mexico means "more publicly owned resources could be turned over to industry at bargain-basement prices." The Center for American Progress, a left-leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement, saying in a statement that "offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources." Like this story? Share it with a friend!	False
115	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-01-08	We're addressing the issue."	Contributing to the overall increase were the growing U.S. economy, a cold start to the year that required additional energy for heating, and the "limited progress made in developing decarbonization strategies," the analysis found."	We have our own plan.	The analysis comes on the heels of two gut-wrenching climate reports, one by the United Nations and another authored by scientists from more than a dozen federal agencies in the U.S., that warn the world is running out of time to stave off catastrophic, and potentially irreversible, climate change.	The Interior Department, one of the main agencies affected by the shutdown.		U.S. Emissions Spike Undercuts Trump Administration Push For Fossil Fuel Use The Trump administration has repeatedly pointed to declines in U.S. carbon emissions to justify its fossil fuel-focused "energy dominance" agenda. But a new analysis has delivered a blow to that defense, concluding that the nation's greenhouse gas emissions rose sharply in 2018. Emissions in the country jumped 3.4 percent last year, the second largest annual increase in more than two decades, according to a preliminary estimate by the economic research company Rhodium Group. The analysis comes on the heels of two gut-wrenching climate reports, one by the United Nations and another authored by scientists from more than a dozen federal agencies in the U.S., that warn the world is running out of time to stave off catastrophic, and potentially irreversible, climate change. The Trump administration continues to dismiss and downplay the crisis. "I don't believe it," President Donald Trump, who has a long history of climate change denial, said of his own administration's report. He added that "we're the cleanest we've ever been." Between 2005 and 2017, CO2 emissions in the U.S. fell by about 14 percent. Administration officials have touted these declines to explain their push to boost fossil fuels, as well as to defend the president's decision last year to withdraw the U.S. from the historic Paris accord on combating climate change." e are moving forward, but we are not moving forward in a detrimental impact to our economy as what the Paris climate accord would have called for," Wheeler said. "We are reducing our CO2 emissions faster than most other developed countries. We have our own plan. We're moving forward. We're addressing the issue." Former Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, who resigned Jan. 2 under a cloud of ethics scandals, told the National Petroleum Council last month that the administration's "regulatory philosophy" is to partner with the fossil fuel sector, which he said was at "the leading edge of technology." The U.S. has "lead the charge" in cutting emissions of CO2 and methane, a potent greenhouse gas, he added." veryone else is up," he said, referring to other countries' overall emissions. "We're going down while we have our record-breaking oil and gas production." But as Rhodium Group's new analysis makes clear, that was not the case in 2018. The emissions uptick ― the largest since the economic bounce back from the recession that ended in mid-2009 ― comes despite a record number of coal-fired power plants going offline, replaced largely by the use of natural gas. Along with an 1.9 percent spike in power sector emissions, increases occurred in the transportation, industry and buildings sectors, according to Rhodium. Contributing to the overall increase were the growing U.S. economy, a cold start to the year that required additional energy for heating, and the "limited progress made in developing decarbonization strategies," the analysis found." ith a new Congress in session, we demand they heed these warnings (about climate change) and step up to act at the scale of the crisis," she said in a statement. The administration has aggressively rolled back environmental and climate regulations, including President Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan, a policy limiting greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. At Interior, Zinke overturned an Obama-era moratorium on new coal leases on federal land, scrapped a hydraulic fracturing rule meant to better protect public health and curtailed a rule limiting the amount of methane that can be released from oil and gas operations on federal and Native American lands. Even amid the current partial government shutdown, the administration has prioritized fossil fuels. The Interior Department, one of the main agencies affected by the shutdown. is still issuing permits for oil companies, according to Bloomberg. And the agency is continuing its push to open Alaska's fragile Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling, holding public meetings as part of its ongoing environmental review process, Alaska Public Media reported.	False
162	thenewyorktimes	left_center_bias	2019-08-22	Mr. Sanders unveiled his proposal one day after Gov.	It declares climate change a national emergency; envisions building new solar, wind and geothermal power sources across the country; and commits $200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal, an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality.	Mr. Inslee's absence could create an opening for another presidential aspirant to seize the mantle of "climate candidate."	He is bestowing that same name upon his new plan, which calls for the United States to eliminate fossil fuel use by 2050.		Bernie Sanders's 'Green New Deal': A $16 Trillion Climate Plan WASHINGTON — Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a $16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change, the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet-warming greenhouse gases. Mr. Sanders unveiled his proposal one day after Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington, who made climate change the central focus of his campaign, announced he was dropping out of the 2020 race. Mr. Inslee's absence could create an opening for another presidential aspirant to seize the mantle of "climate candidate." Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal, an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality. He is bestowing that same name upon his new plan, which calls for the United States to eliminate fossil fuel use by 2050. It declares climate change a national emergency; envisions building new solar, wind and geothermal power sources across the country; and commits $200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	False
813	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-07-18	This is for you, and it's real."	But other climate activists declared themselves pleased with the outcome, pointing out that it showed that action to reduce emissions is bipartisan and popular."	California's pioneering attitude to climate change action was underlined by separate court action launched on Monday, aimed at holding fossil fuel companies accountable for global warming.	"Republicans and Democrats set aside their differences, came together and took courageous action.	"This isn't for me, I'm going to be dead.		California lawmakers extend program to cut emissions in bipartisan vote California legislators have voted to extend a centerpiece program to cut greenhouse gas emissions, burnishing the state's reputation as a bulwark against Donald Trump's demolition of climate change measures. In a rare show of bipartisan agreement on climate change, eight Republicans joined with Democrats in California's two legislative houses to extend the cap-and-trade emissions system a further 10 years until 2030. The emissions-lowering scheme, the second-largest of its kind in the world, aims to help the state reach its target of cutting planet-warming gases 40% by 2030, compared to 1990 levels." onight, California stood tall and once again, boldly confronted the existential threat of our time," said Jerry Brown, California's governor. "Republicans and Democrats set aside their differences, came together and took courageous action. That's what good government looks like." The cap-and-trade program, established in 2006 under then governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, sets a limit on emissions and requires polluters to either reduce their output or purchase permits from those who have. As the limit steadily becomes stricter, it nudges businesses to take the more financially attractive option of cutting their pollution. California, the sixth-largest economy in the world, is in stark opposition to Trump's administration. The president has said he will withdraw the US from the Paris climate agreement and has set about dismantling federal policies that lower emissions. Brown has positioned himself as a countervailing force to Trump, visiting China to talk to its leaders about climate change and promising to build and launch weather-monitoring satellites should federal budget cuts endanger programs handled by Nasa and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOOA)."  lot of you people are going to be alive, and you're going to be alive in a horrible situation," Brown told Californian lawmakers at a committee hearing shortly before the vote. "This isn't for me, I'm going to be dead. This is for you, and it's real." Many Californian Republicans remain opposed to the cap-and-trade system, warning it will pose a "crushing" blow to small businesses. But the bill ended up gaining an unusual level of Republican support, with the extension also supported by key conservative constituencies, including the California Chamber of Commerce and associations representing manufacturers and agriculture interests. Concessions to get some Republican support, such as the limiting of separate regulations on refineries, risked alienating more liberal Democrats. Some environmental groups, including the Sierra Club, attacked the bill for allowing polluters to continue emitting greenhouse gases if they offset them with green projects, including those outside California. But other climate activists declared themselves pleased with the outcome, pointing out that it showed that action to reduce emissions is bipartisan and popular." alifornia is once again showing Washington DC and the rest of the world that fighting climate and air pollution is the right thing for our health, economy and future," said Fred Krupp, president of the Environmental Defense Fund. California's pioneering attitude to climate change action was underlined by separate court action launched on Monday, aimed at holding fossil fuel companies accountable for global warming. Marin and San Mateo counties, along with the City of Imperial Beach, filed a lawsuit in the California superior court to complain that 37 oil, gas and coal companies knew burning their products would increase carbon pollution and cause sea levels rise." efendants have known for nearly 50 years that greenhouse gas pollution from their fossil fuel products has a significant impact on the Earth's climate and sea levels," the complaint states. The municipalities are claiming damages from the fossil fuel firms, echoing a strategy used against the tobacco industry in the 1990s that resulted in multibillion dollar payouts. The companies targeted in the lawsuit include Shell, Exxon Mobile, Chevron and BP. According to the municipalities, these businesses have caused around 20% of all industrial carbon dioxide and methane pollution since the 1960s.	False
733	Vox	left_bias	2017-06-01	The Associated Press's Jill Colvin and Julie Pace, though, report that "Trump's decision may not be entirely clear-cut" and that aides continued to deliberate on "caveats in the language."	For years now it's been clear that blocking environmental regulations and obstructing action on climate change are top Republican Party priorities.	The major Republican presidential candidates harshly criticized the Paris deal in particular, and Trump promised to withdraw from it during the campaign.	A live stream of the announcement is embedded above.	The actual Paris deal — agreed to by 195 countries in December 2015 — is aspirational rather than binding, calling on countries to set goals for emissions reduction.		Video: President Trump pulls US out of Paris climate deal President Donald Trump announced his decision to pull the United States out of the Paris climate accord at 3 pm Eastern in the White House Rose Garden. A live stream of the announcement is embedded above. Multiple reports indicate that Trump is likely to announce a withdrawal from the agreement — though many of these reports have expressed at least some uncertainty, including about precisely what language Trump would use. Jonathan Swan of Axios reported that, per "two sources with direct knowledge of the decision," Trump has decided to pull out of the agreement. The Daily Beast's Lachlan Markay reports that the White House is telling congressional staff that Trump will pull out. The Associated Press's Jill Colvin and Julie Pace, though, report that "Trump's decision may not be entirely clear-cut" and that aides continued to deliberate on "caveats in the language." The actual Paris deal — agreed to by 195 countries in December 2015 — is aspirational rather than binding, calling on countries to set goals for emissions reduction. Still, the withdrawal of the US would send an unmistakable signal to the rest of the world that the country with the second-highest carbon emissions is no longer interested in even pretending to care about reducing them. For years now it's been clear that blocking environmental regulations and obstructing action on climate change are top Republican Party priorities. The GOP's leading politicians and media outlets have tended to praise fossil fuel companies and ignore or cast doubt on climate science. The major Republican presidential candidates harshly criticized the Paris deal in particular, and Trump promised to withdraw from it during the campaign. Still, withdrawing from such a recent agreement that the vast majority of countries across the world have signed on to has serious consequences for America's role as a global leader. So the question of whether the US should actually pull out of the agreement has reportedly been the subject of intense debate within the Trump administration. According to Politico's Andrew Restuccia and Josh Dawsey, White House chief strategist Steve Bannon and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt have been the leading voices urging Trump to withdraw, while Ivanka Trump and the so-called "New York" or "globalist" White House camp have been advocating for staying in. Silicon Valley business leaders like Apple CEO Tim Cook and Tesla CEO Elon Musk have also been arguing that the US should stick to the agreement.	False
177	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-05-30	Technology could help here, too.	Eco-tourism is a growing trend that resorts are seeking to exploit around the world, as people seek to make more responsible choices in the face of climate change.	It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market, but The Brando proves it is possible," says Prof Graham Miller, who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey.	Other data, about animals, plants, topography, and so on, will be incorporated, to create a model that could be used to predict how the island might react in different scenarios, from flooding to the introduction of new species."	It's a bit like putting the island through a scanner."		The sea-cooled eco-resort that's nearly mosquito-free The Brando is one of the most luxurious eco-resorts on the planet, nestling on an atoll in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. It's the last place you might think to find pioneering technology. But you'd be surprised. The Brando resort on Tetiaroa - a stunning atoll north of Tahiti - is the epitome of luxurious exclusivity. Two-room bungalows start from €3,700 (£3,200) a night. Formerly owned by Hollywood legend Marlon Brando, who was keen that it should become an ecological haven, it has now developed in to a hideaway for the rich and famous seeking conscience-soothing holidays that do less harm to the planet. While some have dismissed the resort as an "island for liberal elites" - Beyoncé and Barack Obama were recent guests - current owner Richard Bailey claims it is close to becoming "carbon neutral and self-sustainable". Electricity at the complex, for example, is generated from solar panels and coconut oil biofuel, while waste water is used for sustainable irrigation. And the resort's cooling system uses a "closed loop heat exchanger" that takes very cold sea water from 900m (2,950ft) below the surface of the Pacific Ocean to cool the fresh water and air circulating round the complex. As the cooling system is powered largely by water pressure, it uses very little energy." It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market, but The Brando proves it is possible," says Prof Graham Miller, who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey. But, of course, visitors to The Brando have to fly to Tahiti first then take another "20-minute flight to paradise", so their carbon footprint is still significant. The well-heeled guests are unlikely to be bitten by mosquitoes either, due to a sterilisation programme that has slashed Tetiaroa's mosquito population by at least 95%. Led by Dr Hervé Bossin of the Institut Louis Malardé, the programme breeds and releases non-biting male mosquitoes infected with a Wolbachia virus that makes wild females - who do bite - sterile. Similar initiatives, aimed at stamping out diseases such as Dengue and Zika, are underway in countries such as Australia, Colombia and China. But few countries have enjoyed the same level of success as Tetiaroa, where mosquito levels are now so low "the team is simply not catching any wild females anymore", according to Frank Murphy, executive director of the Tetiaroa Society, the non-governmental organisation (NGO) overseeing the sterilisation programme." The success of the project recently convinced the local government to fund a much larger breeding facility that could see the programme expand to other Pacific islands," he says. Mosquitoes are not the only pests the Tetiaroa Society is working to eradicate. Rats are a big problem for the ecosystem of the atoll." Rats eat everything from baby turtles to sea birds, and that is bad news for the coral reef too," Mr Murphy says. Technology could help here, too. The team wants to use 2.2m-diameter drones to drop poisonous bait designed to attract rats but not other species. The operation, only the second ever, will be led by Island Conservation, a US NGO that protects endangered species by removing invasive ones." Rats can cause the collapse of the entire terrestrial ecosystem," says Island Conservation's Sally Esposito." In the past, we have used helicopters to spread bait, but we recently used drones for the first time on Seymour Norte in the Galapagos Islands." Tetiaroa is a more difficult environment, so it's a great opportunity to test the drones further, and should help us to create a haven for endangered native species, such as the Polynesian Ground-dove and the Tuamotu Sandpiper." Perhaps the most futuristic project on Tetiaroa is the Island Digital Ecosystem Avatar, which uses light detection and ranging (Lidar) surveys to create a 3D model. Other data, about animals, plants, topography, and so on, will be incorporated, to create a model that could be used to predict how the island might react in different scenarios, from flooding to the introduction of new species." The Lidar surveys give us a 3D representation of the physical contours of the island, including the soils," says Tetiaroa Society scientific director Neil Davies - a senior fellow at the Berkeley Institute for Data Science." It's a bit like putting the island through a scanner." The team's eventual aim is to capture the atoll's whole ecosystem - "from molecule upwards" - so it can help local governments and communities evaluate future risks and make better decisions. Eco-tourism is a growing trend that resorts are seeking to exploit around the world, as people seek to make more responsible choices in the face of climate change. For example, the Parkside Hotel & Spa in Canada, along with The Brando, is one of just a handful of resorts to attain the US Green Building Council's Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design platinum certification. It has a 290 sq m (3,000 sq ft) vegetated roof, and uses ponds and storm water storage tanks as a heat sink for its air conditioning system. And actor Leonardo DiCaprio, a high-profile environmental campaigner and The Brando regular - is set to open his Blackadore Caye eco-island resort off Belize in 2020. But with tourism contributing around 8% to global greenhouse gas emissions, according to one recent paper published in the scientific journal Nature Climate Change, all resorts will need to become carbon neutral, not just those targeting the world's rich.	False
174	cnbc	left_center_bias	2019-01-02	"We need to know what kind of impact this corporate favoritism is having on average Americans' health and quality of life."	Some of the biggest items on its agenda include withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement, expanding drilling on federal lands, and watering down rules ranging from limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants to fuel efficiency in cars and trucks.	The Trump administration has targeted dozens of rules.	Within the first few months of the year, incoming committee chairs intend to hold a series of hearings to pick apart Trump's energy and environmental policies and what role industry insiders played in crafting them.	Over the next two years, those actions will face intense scrutiny on Capitol Hill.		Trump's war on energy and environmental regulation is about to face the 'Spanish Inquisition' President Donald Trump set in motion a vast rollback of energy, climate and environmental regulations during his first two years in office. Over the next two years, those actions will face intense scrutiny on Capitol Hill. On Thursday, Democrats will take control of the House of Representatives and the committees that conduct government oversight. Within the first few months of the year, incoming committee chairs intend to hold a series of hearings to pick apart Trump's energy and environmental policies and what role industry insiders played in crafting them. The Trump administration has targeted dozens of rules. Some of the biggest items on its agenda include withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement, expanding drilling on federal lands, and watering down rules ranging from limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants to fuel efficiency in cars and trucks. Rep. Raul Grijalva, the Arizona Democrat tipped to chair the House Natural Resources Committee, says Americans can expect the committee to probe the financial costs and public health risks associated with Interior Department policies under Trump. Those include rolling back methane emissions rules from oil and gas operations and making virtually all federally administered offshore waters available to drillers." The Trump administration has spent two years giving away the store to fossil fuel companies, and Republicans in Congress cheered every step of the way," says Grijalva. "We need to know what kind of impact this corporate favoritism is having on average Americans' health and quality of life."	False
240	dailymail	questionable_source	2019-10-02	Being different is not an illness and the current, best available science is not opinions - it's facts.	You say you "hear" us and that you understand the urgency.	The tone of Greta's images have changed significantly since she addressed the United Nations Climate Summit on September 23rd, where she came close to tears in a emotional speech to international delegates.	The world is waking up.	People are suffering.	'Last week, Thunberg addressed on social media the negativity she's received for speaking out on climate change, saying: 'Here we go again... As you may have noticed, the haters are as active as ever - going after me, my looks, my clothes, my behaviour and my differences. <sep> A photo of Greta scowling when she spotted Donald Trump went viral. <sep> 	'You look happier since leaving the US!' Greta Thunberg reassures fans with smiling snap from Quebec Fans of Greta Thunberg have expressed relief after the 16-year-old posted a string of smiling photographs on Instagram. The environmental activist's recent images, taken while touring Canada's east coast in Montreal and Quebec, are in sharp contrast to images of the 16-year-old speaking in an emotionally charged appearance last month at the Climate Action Summit 2019 in New York. A photo of Greta scowling when she spotted Donald Trump went viral. The teenage campaigner, who has 7.2million followers on Instagram, looks decidedly happier since she crossed the border from the US, something which her followers haven't failed to notice. Writing on Instagram, Greta said: 'So happy to say that the following weeks I'll travel slowly through the North American continent, moving southwest and then eventually through South America towards Santiago. I will stop on the way and visit as many places as I can, and of course protest every Friday no matter where I am.'Yesterday the teenager posted an image of herself at the Marine Mammal Interpretation Centre in Tadoussac, Québec, after spending a morning watching whales. The tone of Greta's images have changed significantly since she addressed the United Nations Climate Summit on September 23rd, where she came close to tears in a emotional speech to international delegates. She told them: 'I shouldn't be up here. I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean. Yet you all come to us for hope. How dare you. You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words,'During the same appearance, Greta was seen at the UN headquarters with an enraged expression on her face as US President Donald Trump upstaged her entrance by walking in flanked by news reporters, an image that promptly went viral. Among the comments posted by the environmentalist's followers, many remarked how much happier the teenager had looked in recent days. On Instagram, Jesuissuzette wrote: 'Greta, you look so much happier now that you're out of America. Enjoy your travels. And thank you for your intrepid Climate Crisis campaign.'Last week, Thunberg addressed on social media the negativity she's received for speaking out on climate change, saying: 'Here we go again... As you may have noticed, the haters are as active as ever - going after me, my looks, my clothes, my behaviour and my differences. They come up with every thinkable lie and conspiracy theory. It seems they will cross every possible line to avert the focus, since they are so desperate not to talk about the climate and ecological crisis. Being different is not an illness and the current, best available science is not opinions - it's facts.'Greta, who is taking a sabbatical year from school, arrived in North America in August, taking a two-week crossing on carbon neutral yacht Malizia II to address the United Nations. Greta Thunberg's fiery speech at the UN Climate Action Summit in New York   This is all wrong. I shouldn't be standing here. I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean. Yet you all come to me for hope? How dare you! You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words. And yet I'm one of the lucky ones. People are suffering. People are dying. Entire ecosystems are collapsing. We are in the beginning of a mass extinction. And all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth. How dare you! For more than 30 years the science has been crystal clear. How dare you continue to look away, and come here saying that you are doing enough, when the politics and solutions needed are still nowhere in sight. You say you "hear" us and that you understand the urgency. But no matter how sad and angry I am, I don't want to believe that. Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act, then you would be evil. And I refuse to believe that. The popular idea of cutting our emissions in half in 10 years only gives us a 50% chance of staying below 1.5C degrees, and the risk of setting off irreversible chain reactions beyond human control. Maybe 50% is acceptable to you. But those numbers don't include tipping points, most feedback loops, additional warming hidden by toxic air pollution or the aspects of justice and equity. They also rely on my and my children's generation sucking hundreds of billions of tonnes of your CO2 out of the air with technologies that barely exist. So a 50% risk is simply not acceptable to us – we who have to live with the consequences. To have a 67% chance of staying below a 1.5C global temperature rise – the best odds given by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – the world had 420 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide left to emit back on 1 January 2018. Today that figure is already down to less than 350 gigatonnes. How dare you pretend that this can be solved with business-as-usual and some technical solutions. With today's emissions levels, that remaining CO2 budget will be entirely gone in less than eight and a half years. There will not be any solutions or plans presented in line with these figures today. Because these numbers are too uncomfortable. And you are still not mature enough to tell it like it is. You are failing us. But the young people are starting to understand your betrayal. The eyes of all future generations are upon you. And if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you. We will not let you get away with this. Right here, right now is where we draw the line. The world is waking up. And change is coming, whether you like it or not.	True
743	BBC	left_center_bias	2017-09-19	The authors themselves are anxious that their research is not misunderstood.	These are among the conclusions that some might reach from this latest work.	But unlike those figures, which relied on one line of evidence, the new study uses multiple approaches to examine the question and comes up with a rather different result.	But the ambition of Paris caught a lot of people by surprise."	To be honest, it wasn't thought to be the policy priority at the time."		Paris climate aim 'still achievable' The 2015 Paris agreement's ambitious goal of limiting global warming to 1.5C remains within reach, a study suggests. The study is one of several to address the "carbon budget", which - among other things - determines how much CO2 the planet can emit and still reach a given limit for global warming. It indicates the 2015 target, perceived by some as tough, could be met with very stringent emissions cuts. It used computer models that project climate behaviour into the future. The aim of the Paris deal was "holding the increase in global average temperature to well below 2C above pre-industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit temperature increase to 1.5C." But scientists admit they were taken by surprise by the ambition of the 1.5C figure. The results of the work with computer models have been published in Nature Geoscience. This type of work necessarily contains uncertainties regarding the way the Earth's climate will respond in future and how quickly societies can move away from fossil fuel use. But the study authors say: "Pursuing 'efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C' is not chasing a geophysical impossibility". Co-author Michael Grubb, from University College London, said: "This paper shows that the Paris goals are within reach, but clarifies what the commitment to 'pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C' really implies." Those commitments would require strengthening the nationally determined contributions (NDCs) - the pledges to cut emissions contained in the Paris agreement. Previous estimates of the remaining 1.5C carbon budget based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's (IPCC) Fifth Assessment of the climate were around four times lower. But unlike those figures, which relied on one line of evidence, the new study uses multiple approaches to examine the question and comes up with a rather different result. Co-author Prof Pierre Friedlingstein, from the University of Exeter, said: "This is very good news for the achievability of the Paris targets." Prof Myles Allen, another author from the University of Oxford, told BBC News: "In the main body of the IPCC assessment, what it would take to meet a 1.5C goal wasn't assessed in any detail. To be honest, it wasn't thought to be the policy priority at the time." Perhaps it should have been, but that was the view of the academic community then. But the ambition of Paris caught a lot of people by surprise." The climate models are exaggerating. The predictions are too alarmist. The Tuvaluans and other islanders are safer than we thought. These are among the conclusions that some might reach from this latest work. In reality, nothing is quite that straightforward. The models are simulated approximations of possible futures. Inevitably they are going to be at least slightly adrift of reality, either in the amount of warming or its timing. They come with caveats and margins of error. In many ways, it's remarkable that these computer constructs are even roughly on track. And models designed to come up with very broad potential outcomes for the end of the century may not be fine-tuned enough to give more detailed forecasts year-by-year. The authors themselves are anxious that their research is not misunderstood. The need for urgent action to reduce emissions is unchanged, they say. It's just that the most ambitious of the Paris Agreement targets is not as unachievable as many once thought, that there is time to act, though the task remains a monumental one. Myles Allen added: "For a two in three chance of keeping temperatures within 1.5C, we'd have to reduce emissions in a straight line to zero from where we are now over the next 40 years." It's possible, but extremely challenging. So if people are saying: can we now relax? That's not the right message to take at all." Scientists agree urgent action will be needed to tackle the effects of rapid temperature increase over the next century. But a study earlier this year suggested the allowable carbon budget had probably been overestimated. It said the "pre-industrial baseline" used to benchmark present day warming was probably older than the IPCC had assumed. Therefore, the degree of warming since that baseline was probably greater than had been believed. On Twitter, one of the authors of that report, Prof Michael Mann, said the latest research in Nature Geoscience, "doesn't account for [the] pre-industrial baseline issue we examined". He added: "There is some debate about [the] precise amount of committed warming if we cease emitting carbon immediately. We're probably very close to 1.5C." Meanwhile, another study in Nature Geoscience, by Gunnar Myhre, from the Center for International Climate and Environmental Research, in Oslo, and colleagues, suggests the greenhouse effect caused by human-induced CO2 emissions is now half-way to doubling compared with pre-industrial conditions. Although the concentrations themselves have not yet reached the halfway mark, this is being described as an iconic watermark.	False
520	cbsnews	left_center_bias	2018-05-02	This is a fact.	The lawsuit was filed in the U.S.	Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.	The world is not flat, pollution is not free, and the health and safety of our children is not for sale," said Democratic state Attorney General Xavier Becerra, standing alongside the governor.	Pruitt, who has sought to block or delay an array of environmental regulations, has argued that assumptions about gas prices and vehicle technology used by the Obama administration to set the standards were too optimistic.		California, 16 other states sue EPA over auto emissions rollbacks California and 16 other states sued the Trump administration Tuesday over its plan to scrap Obama-era auto-emissions standards that would require vehicles to get significantly higher gas mileage by 2025. At issue is a move by Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt to roll back 2012 rules aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions. Under those rules, vehicles would have to get 36 miles of real-world driving per gallon, about 10 miles over the existing standard." Pollutants coming out of vehicles, out of the tailpipe, does permanent lung damage to children living near well-traveled roads and freeways. This is a fact. The only way we're going to overcome that is by reducing emissions," Gov. Jerry Brown said in announcing the lawsuit along with other top California Democrats. The rules were set six years ago when California and the Obama administration agreed to a single nationwide fuel economy standard. Pruitt, who has sought to block or delay an array of environmental regulations, has argued that assumptions about gas prices and vehicle technology used by the Obama administration to set the standards were too optimistic. And he said the standards would hurt automakers and consumers who can't afford or don't want to buy more fuel-efficient vehicles. Automakers have likewise argued that the Obama-era rules would cost the industry billions of dollars and raise vehicle prices because of the cost of developing the necessary technology. EPA representatives did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment on the lawsuit. California officials say the standards are achievable and the EPA's effort to repeal them is not based on any new research. They argue the plan violates the federal Clean Air Act and didn't follow the agency's own regulations. California has a unique waiver that allows it to set its own tailpipe emissions standards for vehicles, which it has used to combat smog and, more recently, global warming. Thirteen other states and the District of Columbia have adopted the California standards as their own. California has now sued the Trump administration more than 30 times on topics including immigration and health care policy." The world is not flat, pollution is not free, and the health and safety of our children is not for sale," said Democratic state Attorney General Xavier Becerra, standing alongside the governor. Brown, who has made fighting climate change a core of his policy and political platform, said the state's battles with Washington over climate are the most essential." If we follow the Pruitt-Trump path, we follow our way off the cliff to disaster," he said. The lawsuit was filed in the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Joining California were Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, Washington, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Virginia and the District of Columbia. All have Democratic attorneys general.	False
640	Fox News	right_bias	2017-06-02	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	Bill Ford, chairman of the Ford Motor Co., also weighed in, saying: "We believe climate change is real, and remain deeply committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in our vehicles and our facilities."	Canete also predicted that the EU would seek new alliances from the world's largest economies to the most vulnerable island states, as well as U.S. businesses and individuals supportive of the accord.U.N.	Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris climate agreement "a major disappointment" and said it was "crucial that the United States remains a leader on environmental issues," according to his spokesman.	Spokesman Dmitry Peskov added that its implementation will not be as effective "without the key signatories."		Paris agreement on climate change: World reaction to US pullout World leaders reacted with dismay Thursday to President Trump's announcement that he was pulling out of the Paris climate accord, while three prominent European heads of state rejected his suggestion that the deal could be renegotiated. French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and  and Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni said in a joint statement that they regretted the United States' decision to withdraw from the accord, but affirmed "our strongest commitment" to implement its measures and encouraged "all our partners to speed up their action to combat climate change." While Trump said the United States would be willing to rejoin the accord if it could obtain more favorable terms, the three European leaders said the agreement cannot be renegotiated, "since it is a vital instrument for our planet, societies and economics." Macron repeated that belief in an English-language speech from the Elysee presidential palace, unprecedented from a French president in an address at home. He said, "I do respect this decision but I do think it is an actual mistake both for the U.S. and for our planet." Wherever we live, whoever we are, we all share the same responsibility: make our planet great again," Macron added. The European Union's top climate change official, Miguel Arias Canente, said in a statement that Trump's decision to leave the Paris accord made it "a sad day for the global community," adding that the bloc "deeply regrets the unilateral decision." Canete also predicted that the EU would seek new alliances from the world's largest economies to the most vulnerable island states, as well as U.S. businesses and individuals supportive of the accord.U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris climate agreement "a major disappointment" and said it was "crucial that the United States remains a leader on environmental issues," according to his spokesman. Norway's largest pension fund with 53 billion euro ($59.5 billion) in assets under its management said it would continue to invest in renewable energy despite the American president's decision, saying in a statement that "Donald Trump is jumping off a train that has already left the station." Chief executive Odd Arild Grefstad cited the growth of renewable energy in U.S. states such as Texas, New York and California as signs that "the world has started the transition from fossil to a renewable economy." In Mexico, former President Vicente Fox criticized Trump's move, saying on Twitter: "He's declaring war on the planet itself." Fox, who has clashed with Trump since last year's presidential campaign, said the U.S. leader's decision "condemns this generation and those to come" and would leave "a dark legacy just to satisfy your greediness." Bill Ford, chairman of the Ford Motor Co., also weighed in, saying: "We believe climate change is real, and remain deeply committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in our vehicles and our facilities." Before Trump announced his decision Thursday afternoon, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang told reporters during a visit to Berlin that fighting global warming was a "global consensus" and an "international responsibility." Without mentioning the U.S. specifically, Li said that "China in recent years has stayed true to its commitment" and pointed out that his was one of the first countries to ratify the 2015 Paris Agreement. While traveling abroad last week, Trump was repeatedly pressed to stay in the deal by European leaders and Pope Francis. Withdrawing would leave the United States as one of just three countries outside the agreement. The other two are Syria and Nicaragua. Russia joined the chorus speaking out for the climate accord. Speaking to reporters on Thursday before Trump's decision was announced, a spokesman for President Vladimir Putin said Russia "thinks highly" of the accords and sees no alternative to it. Spokesman Dmitry Peskov added that its implementation will not be as effective "without the key signatories." Scientists say Earth is likely to reach more dangerous levels of warming sooner if the U.S. retreats from its pledge because America contributes so much to rising temperatures. Calculations suggest withdrawal could release up to 3 billion additional tons of carbon dioxide a year -- enough to melt ice sheets faster, raise seas higher and trigger more extreme weather. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False
685	Politicus USA	left_bias	2017-04-22	And my interpretation of the expression 'useful arts' is engineering.	It is inherently political like everything else … It's in the U.S. Constitution, Article 1, Section 8, to promote the progress of science and useful arts.	This is all in the U.S. Constitution … That's what enables innovation, and if our country stops innovating, it will not be able to compete worldwide.	In those days, it would be architecture, city planning, designing of the drainage systems, sewage systems, and communications systems.	Nye had a reminder for the Trump administration:I just want to remind the administration that science is political.		Bill Nye Brilliantly Quotes The Constitution To Prove That Trump Must Act On Climate Change As thousands of activists and scientists around the world gather to March for Science, Bill Nye has a U.S. Constitution lesson for Donald Trump that proves he must advance scientific causes. In an interview on MSNBC's AM Joy, Nye said that it explicitly states in the Constitution that the U.S. government must "promote the progress of science and useful arts," something the Trump administration isn't even close to upholding. Nye had a reminder for the Trump administration:I just want to remind the administration that science is political. It is inherently political like everything else … It's in the U.S. Constitution, Article 1, Section 8, to promote the progress of science and useful arts. And my interpretation of the expression 'useful arts' is engineering. In those days, it would be architecture, city planning, designing of the drainage systems, sewage systems, and communications systems. This is all in the U.S. Constitution … That's what enables innovation, and if our country stops innovating, it will not be able to compete worldwide. Nye said that solutions to battling climate change are realistic and doable if the United States simply puts resources toward the effort and decides to act." e could get to 80 percent renewables in the next 15 years, we could 100 percent renewable in the next 30 years and we wouldn't have to have a military on the other side of the world protecting oil fields so that we could get our fossil fuels here in North America," he said. Once again, the biggest hurdle in battling climate change isn't the existence of feasible solutions – those already exist. The problem, at least in the United States, is Republicans in Congress and now the White House – especially Trump, who believes climates change is a hoax – who continue to deny that the climate crisis is happening in the first place, despite the overwhelming evidence. Donald Trump isn't just shirking his constitutional responsibility to advance scientific innovation, but he's putting at risk the only planet we have.	False
630	NewsBusters	right_bias	2017-09-13	Thus, our analysts ignored soundbites which merely showcased the traditional party line (Republicans supporting Trump, Democrats criticizing him), and instead tallied evaluative statements which imparted a clear positive or negative tone to the story, such as statements from experts presented as non-partisan, voters, or opinionated statements from the networks' own reporters.	Methodology: Our measure of spin was designed to isolate the networks' own slant, not the back-and-forth of partisan politics.	The most consistent factor in all of this coverage was the criticism.	Instead, it covers specifically the coverage of President Trump's environmental agenda on ABC World News Tonight, CBS Evening News and NBC Nightly News.	Climate change, he [Bast] says, is a naturally occurring cyclical phenomenon caused mostly by the sun, not an approaching disaster accelerated by carbon dioxide emissions caused by humans."		86 Percent Negative: Media Scold Trump on Climate, Cite 'World of Opposition' The twin disasters of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma showcased once again the media's reflex to use such tragedies to push for liberal climate change policies.  In their pursuit of this agenda, the broadcast networks' have heavily criticized the Trump administration's policies on the environment. From January 20 through August 31, MRC analysts tallied 75 stories discussing the President and climate change, totaling 73 minutes, 43 seconds of network airtime.  The commentary in these stories was as one-sided as the rest of Trump's coverage has been, with 88 percent of evaluative statements criticizing the President, vs. a mere 12 percent that praised him. Methodology: Our measure of spin was designed to isolate the networks' own slant, not the back-and-forth of partisan politics. Thus, our analysts ignored soundbites which merely showcased the traditional party line (Republicans supporting Trump, Democrats criticizing him), and instead tallied evaluative statements which imparted a clear positive or negative tone to the story, such as statements from experts presented as non-partisan, voters, or opinionated statements from the networks' own reporters. Using these criteria, MRC analysts tallied 121 evaluative statements about the Trump administration's approach to the environment from January 20 to August 31, 2017, of which 106 (88%) were negative vs. a mere 15 (12%) which were positive. This study does not look at all climate change-related stories during this time frame. Instead, it covers specifically the coverage of President Trump's environmental agenda on ABC World News Tonight, CBS Evening News and NBC Nightly News. The most consistent factor in all of this coverage was the criticism. NBC Nightly News correspondent Matt Bradley's July 30 quip that "President Donald Trump shifts American climate commitments into reverse" was typical of the media attitude towards the president's environmental policies. On June 2, Nightly News correspondent Kristen Welker promoted an anti-Trump protest over this decision, hyping "the backlash is only heating up." The same night, CBS Evening News's anchor Anthony Mason spoke of the "world of opposition to withdraw from the Paris climate accord." Correspondent Chip Reid echoed by referencing "worldwide condemnation." NBC Nightly News, anchor Savannah Guthrie on June 1 criticized the move to withdraw from the climate treaty: "detractors say it is a stunning abandonment of the U.S.'s leadership in the world, and a grave threat to the planet itself." To their credit, CBS stood alone in interviewing a conservative to hear the other side of the climate change debate. On April 22, CBS Evening News, correspondent Dean Reynolds noted that Joe Bast, CEO of The Heartland Institute, "looks with approval on Mr. Trump's decision to roll back regulations limiting greenhouse gases, and to his appointments of fellow skeptics in the administration. Climate change, he [Bast] says, is a naturally occurring cyclical phenomenon caused mostly by the sun, not an approaching disaster accelerated by carbon dioxide emissions caused by humans." However, before stating this position, Reynolds noted that "most climate scientists, the United Nations, as well as NASA, dismiss these arguments as propaganda for fossil fuels. On March 28 NBC Nightly News profiled "celebrations in coal country" over Trump's environmental proposals, mentioning a barber shop in West Virginia where "they cheered the move, hoping it will bring back jobs." Afterwards, correspondent Kristen Welker noted that "federal data shows mines have been losing jobs for decades under both parties. Right now, there are less than seventy-five thousand coal jobs, compared to more than six hundred and fifty thousand in renewable energy, which can be less expensive to produce."	False
10	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-07-25	Jennifer Marlon, a research scientist at the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication, said the divergence in the way American perceive the weather is being driven by factors including the news they consume and their social circles.	Scientists and researchers at the University of Michigan, the University of Exeter and others came to a similar conclusion in a 2018 study which found that political bias and partisan news reporting can affect whether people indicate experiencing certain extreme weather events.	The Reuters/Ipsos poll was conducted online in English between June 11 and 14 and gathered responses from 3,281 people.	Last year, the Yale program - which carries out scientific research on public knowledge about climate change - set out to map the partisan divide on how people perceive the effects of global warming across the United States.	For more conservative Americans, the link between weather and climate change is "not a typical conversation," Marlon said.	Their different takes underscore a broader truth about the way Americans perceive extreme weather: Democrats are far more likely to believe droughts, floods, wildfires, hurricanes and tropical storms have become more frequent or intense where they live in the last decade, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll. <sep> 	POLL: Dems, Republicans can't even agree on weather! NEW YORK (Reuters) - Only 200 miles separate Michael Tilden and Miranda Garcia in rain-soaked Iowa. But they are worlds apart when it comes to their opinion of the weather. Garcia, a 38-year-old former journalist and Democrat from Des Moines, thinks flooding has been getting worse in the state, which just came out of its wettest 12-months on record. Tilden, a 44-year-old math teacher and Republican from Sioux City, thinks otherwise: "I've noticed essentially the same weather pattern every single year," he said. Their different takes underscore a broader truth about the way Americans perceive extreme weather: Democrats are far more likely to believe droughts, floods, wildfires, hurricanes and tropical storms have become more frequent or intense where they live in the last decade, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll. The divergence shows how years of political squabbling over global warming - including disputes over its existence - have grown deep roots, distorting the way Americans view the world around them. The divide will play into the 2020 election as Democratic hopefuls seek to sell aggressive proposals to reduce or even end fossil fuel consumption by drawing links between climate change and recent floods, storms and wildfires. Nearly two-thirds of Democrats believe severe thunderstorms and floods have become more frequent, compared to 42% and 50% of Republicans, respectively, according to the poll. About half of Democrats, meanwhile, think droughts, hurricanes and tropical storms are more common in their region, versus less than a third of Republicans, according to the poll. Similarly, nearly seven in 10 Democrats said in the poll that severe weather events such as thunderstorms have become more intense, compared to 4 of 10 Republicans. And nearly half of Republicans said there has been no change in the intensity of severe weather over the past decade, versus a fifth of Democrats. The Reuters/Ipsos poll was conducted online in English between June 11 and 14 and gathered responses from 3,281 people. It has a credibility interval, a measure of precision, of 2 percentage points up or down.U.S. government researchers have concluded that tropical cyclone activity, rainfall, and the frequency of intense single-day storms have been on the rise, according to data compiled by the Environmental Protection Agency. For example, six of the 10 most active years for tropical cyclones in the Atlantic basin since 1950 have occurred since the mid-1990s, and nine of the top 10 years for extreme one-day precipitation events nationwide have occurred since 1990, according to the data." e do expect to see more intense storms," said David Easterling, a spokesman for the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration's National Centers for Environmental Information. An overwhelming majority of scientists believe human consumption of fossil fuels is driving sweeping changes in the global climate by ramping up the concentration of heat-trapping gases in the atmosphere. But it is impossible to draw a direct link between the changes in U.S. weather in the recent past to the larger trend of warming. President Donald Trump has cast doubt on the science of climate change, saying he believes that research into its severity, causes and effects is not yet settled. Two years ago he announced the United States would withdraw from a global pact to reduce carbon emissions, the Paris Climate Agreement, a deal Trump said could damage the U.S. economy. Still, a majority of Republicans believe the United States should take "aggressive action" to combat global warming, Reuters polling shows. Some Republican lawmakers have offered proposals for "market-based" approaches to fend off climate change, such as cap-and-trade systems that would force companies to cut carbon emissions or buy credits from those that do. Democrats are pushing more aggressive ideas. Nearly all of the party's presidential hopefuls, who seek to unseat Trump in next year's election, have put forward proposals to end U.S. fossil fuels consumption within a few decades to make the country carbon neutral. Trump has slammed the idea, saying it would "kill millions of jobs" and "crush the dreams of the poorest Americans." Jennifer Marlon, a research scientist at the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication, said the divergence in the way American perceive the weather is being driven by factors including the news they consume and their social circles. Liberals are more likely to expose themselves to news outlets and people who believe climate change is an urgent threat that affects current weather patterns. For more conservative Americans, the link between weather and climate change is "not a typical conversation," Marlon said. Last year, the Yale program - which carries out scientific research on public knowledge about climate change - set out to map the partisan divide on how people perceive the effects of global warming across the United States. It found that 22% of Republicans reported personally experiencing climate change, compared to 60% of Democrats. Scientists and researchers at the University of Michigan, the University of Exeter and others came to a similar conclusion in a 2018 study which found that political bias and partisan news reporting can affect whether people indicate experiencing certain extreme weather events.	False
317	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-08-31	)Pielke's motivation in releasing an updated version of his book, initially published in 2014, was he saw the issue of extreme weather become "politicized."	"While this is often extremely frustrating, I remain committed to doing the best job I can analyzing data on climate and disasters in ways that are transparent and grounded in evidence."	Pielke gives many examples of this, including The New York Times' hyping of the National Climate Assessment (NCA) special report released in 2017.	very time there is a disaster, politicians, journalists, and scientists unfailingly spring to life to tell us that the disaster and the costs and suffering that accompanied it were associated with, linked to, or even caused by climate change," Pielke wrote in his newly updated book."	Her call even got a reaction from NPR, which defended its reporting but was sympathetic to her message.	While no skeptic of man-made warming, Pielke painstakingly goes through peer-reviewed scientific assessments, separating the science from the media spin when it comes to natural disasters. <sep> 	'Almost Always False': Book Debunks Activist Spin On Natural Disasters And Global Warming Statements from activists and politicians linking natural disasters to man-made global warming "are almost always false," according to a book debunking misinformation about climate science. The newest version of the book "The Rightful Place of Science: Disasters & Climate Change," by University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr., takes on the often false claims peddled in the media about global warming and disasters, from hurricanes to floods to droughts." very time there is a disaster, politicians, journalists, and scientists unfailingly spring to life to tell us that the disaster and the costs and suffering that accompanied it were associated with, linked to, or even caused by climate change," Pielke wrote in his newly updated book." uch statements, as I'll show in this book, are almost always false," he wrote. While no skeptic of man-made warming, Pielke painstakingly goes through peer-reviewed scientific assessments, separating the science from the media spin when it comes to natural disasters. (RELATED: Dan Rather Claims That Global Warming 'Rarely Tops The Headlines.' Is That True?)Pielke's motivation in releasing an updated version of his book, initially published in 2014, was he saw the issue of extreme weather become "politicized." Now, journalists and politicians are tying every weather event to man-made warming, despite the lack of scientific evidence. For example, The New Republic's Emily Atkin recently called for journalists to put every weather event in the context of global warming. Her call even got a reaction from NPR, which defended its reporting but was sympathetic to her message. Popular figures, like Bill Nye the "Science Guy" and former Vice President Al Gore, routinely link natural disasters to global warming. California Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown blamed the intense wildfires in his state on a "new normal" from a warming climate. But the most thorough scientific assessments show no increasing trends in global frequency or intensity for many types of disasters, including hurricanes, floods, droughts and wildfires." hile political spin doctors often find ways to parse language and statistics to say things that are plausibly defensible but which are ultimately misleading or just wrong, for me such misrepresentations have gone too far in an area where I have some considerable expertise," Pielke wrote." he willingness of some in the media and the scientific community to offer false or misleading claims does not offer a route to scientific integrity," Pielke wrote. Pielke gives many examples of this, including The New York Times' hyping of the National Climate Assessment (NCA) special report released in 2017. The Times claimed the NCA showed how "every part of the country has been touched by warming, from droughts in the Southeast to flooding in the Midwest to a worrying rise in air and ground temperatures in Alaska, and conditions will continue to worsen." The article went on to quote Penn State University's Michael Mann to bolster its claim. But Pielke was quick to point how the NCA did not support The Times' sweeping claims about warming. Anyone "claiming that new US climate report supports attributing trends in extremes to human causes is just wrong," Pielke said at the time. However, Pielke has paid a price for pointing out inconvenient truths about extreme weather and global warming. Pielke's career been targeted by Democratic lawmakers and activist journalists to impress a billionaire donor." his stance has ultimately led me to being systematically attacked any time I make a public statement about climate change, in effect railroading me out of the climate debate as an unwelcome voice," Pielke wrote. "While this is often extremely frustrating, I remain committed to doing the best job I can analyzing data on climate and disasters in ways that are transparent and grounded in evidence."	False
719	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-06-28	In an attempt to defuse the tense moment, Perry described the protester as "one of the more interesting EIA employees," prompting laughter from the audience.	While man is "having an effect" on climate, he said, "most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in."	However, there are also very solid conclusions that are based on decades of research and multiple lines of evidence.	Skepticism that fails to account for evidence is no virtue."	she pressed.		'You Are A Climate Denier': Protesters Interrupt Rick Perry's Speech At Energy Conference Energy Secretary Rick Perry offered little explanation when protesters pressed him to explain his position on climate change at an energy conference on Tuesday. Instead, he opted to tell one "young lady" to "sit down," and said it's "OK … [to] be skeptical about information." You are a climate denier," said the first demonstrator, as members of the audience booed and called for her to "sit down" and to "get her out of here." In an attempt to defuse the tense moment, Perry described the protester as "one of the more interesting EIA employees," prompting laughter from the audience. Undeterred, the protester kept shouting questions at Perry, who then told her: "If you'll sit down, young lady … I'll finish my remarks." Answer my question, why will you not say that climate change is caused by carbon dioxide?" she pressed. Perry was referring to remarks he made during an interview last week with CNBC "Squawk Box." Perry told host Joe Kernan that carbon dioxide was not "the primary control knob" for climate change. While man is "having an effect" on climate, he said, "most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in." His response is in stark contrast to overwhelming scientific consensus based on facts, which says human activity, specifically greenhouse gas emissions, is the primary driver of global warming. The American Meteorological Society skewered Perry for his comments, saying in a letter last week that he lacked a "fundamental understanding of the science" behind climate change. During his EIA conference speech on Tuesday, Perry was interrupted a second time by a protester, who also called him a "climate denier." I think it's OK for us to ask questions and be skeptical about information," Perry said in response, according to a E&E News report of the event.″[S]kepticism and debate are always welcome and are critically important to the advancement of science," the letter said. "In climate science unresolved questions remain ― issues that currently lack conclusive evidence. However, there are also very solid conclusions that are based on decades of research and multiple lines of evidence. Skepticism that fails to account for evidence is no virtue." Later on Tuesday, Perry was quizzed about climate change again during a White House press briefing, arranged as part of the Trump administration's "Energy Week." When asked if President Donald Trump believes in climate change, Perry responded "I have not had that conversation with him" ― joining a growing list of officials who have refused to comment on the commander in chief's position on this critical issue.	False
557	dailymail	questionable_source	2018-02-11	Trump said that he was biased because of his 'Mexican Heritage' and Trump's stance on the border.	The suit seeks a ruling that a border wall with Mexico must go through normal environmental reviews, which could block construction or at least cause major delays.	On Friday he heard two-and-a-half hours of arguments and said that he was leaning toward deciding he has jurisdiction in a lawsuit that alleges the Trump administration overreached in waiving laws that require environmental and other reviews.	The law and the Constitution are firmly on our side, and we think the judge will agree.	Curiel came to national attention in 2016 when he was presiding over one of the cases against Trump University.		Lawsuit says Trump's wall threatens endangered species A tiny endangered butterfly could stop President Donald Trump from building his beloved border wall.A lawsuit has been filed by the Center for Biological Diversity, environmental groups and the State of California against the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. It outlines that the Quino checkerspot butterfly, Riverside fairy shrimp and the Pacific pocket mouse will be threatened if the border wall is built. The butterfly, which is native to southern California and Northern Mexico, is already on the endangered species list. The lawsuit contends that the Department of Homeland Security does not have the ability to waive environmental laws requiring review before building the wall. The suit seeks a ruling that a border wall with Mexico must go through normal environmental reviews, which could block construction or at least cause major delays. The challengers contend that authority to waive the environmental reviews falls under a 2005 law which has expired.'The Trump administration can't use an expired waiver to bypass crucial environmental protections to build these destructive projects,' Brian Segee, a senior attorney at CBD,told San Diego TV station KGTV.'It's time to stop Trump's hateful bombast and his executive overreach here in San Diego before it goes any further. The law and the Constitution are firmly on our side, and we think the judge will agree.'The DHS is arguing that it is within its right to issue the waivers, citing a 1996 immigration law. The case was set to be heard on Friday in San Diego by US District Judge Gonzalo Curiel. Curiel came to national attention in 2016 when he was presiding over one of the cases against Trump University. Trump said that he was biased because of his 'Mexican Heritage' and Trump's stance on the border. At the time, he told CNN: 'We are building a wall. He's a Mexican. We're building a wall between here and Mexico.'Now Curiel will be hearing a case about the wall. On Friday he heard two-and-a-half hours of arguments and said that he was leaning toward deciding he has jurisdiction in a lawsuit that alleges the Trump administration overreached in waiving laws that require environmental and other reviews. The administration argues he doesn't have jurisdiction. Curiel asked the administration and wall opponents to file additional briefings by the end of Tuesday.	False
324	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-12-12	I am hopeful that the exposure of such intolerance will lead to an improved working environment in my department and among others in my discipline," Mass said via email Wednesday.	org.	-1631 will be a trough of billions of dollars of cash for left-leaning social action and 'progressive' groups, and dealing with climate change will be a secondary priority," Mass wrote in a blog post with a picture of pigs feeding at a trough.	cience can only flourish when there is tolerance for a diversity of viewpoints and ideas," Mass told The Daily Caller News Foundation.	"Name calling and politicization of science are toxic to the scientific enterprise, and undermines our credibility in the general community."		Exclusive: Scientist Bullied By University Of Washington Faculty, Students For Climate Change Heresies Speaks Out Climate scientist Cliff Mass is speaking out against "academic political bullying" from University of Washington faculty and students, stemming from Mass's rejection of a carbon tax initiative favored by activists." cience can only flourish when there is tolerance for a diversity of viewpoints and ideas," Mass told The Daily Caller News Foundation. "Name calling and politicization of science are toxic to the scientific enterprise, and undermines our credibility in the general community." I am hopeful that the exposure of such intolerance will lead to an improved working environment in my department and among others in my discipline," Mass said via email Wednesday. Climate scientist Judith Curry detailed in a blog post Wednesday the actions UW and student activists have taken against Mass in recent months. Curry said Mass was a "victim of academic political bullying." There are clearly UW faculty "that don't like Cliff Mass," including, his department chair, and "most fundamentally, they seem to dislike that his blog is getting in the way of their own political advocacy," Curry wrote. Mass joined UW's Atmospheric Sciences Department in 1982 where he specializes in numerical weather modeling and weather patterns in the Pacific Northwest. Mass also publishes a science blog and has a popular weekly radio show. (RELATED: TheDCNF Asked Paris Climate Accord Backers If They'd Support Banning Private Jets. Most Didn't Respond)Mass is no global warming "denier" as many critics try to label him. Mass has repeatedly called global warming a serious threat and supported policies, including carbon taxes, to cut carbon dioxide emissions. Despite his agreement with the climate consensus, Mass has increasingly come under fire from activists for not toeing the alarmist line when it comes to blaming extreme weather events on global warming. What seems to have driven Mass's critics over the edge this time was the atmospheric scientist's public opposition to a Washington state carbon tax ballot initiative, called I-1631. In particular, critics went after a blog post Mass wrote in mid-October detailing why he opposed I-1631. Voters overwhelmingly rejected the carbon tax measure in November, despite support from Gov. Jay Inslee and other Democrats." -1631 will be a trough of billions of dollars of cash for left-leaning social action and 'progressive' groups, and dealing with climate change will be a secondary priority," Mass wrote in a blog post with a picture of pigs feeding at a trough. The picture has since been removed. The imagery of pigs feeding at a trough has long been used to describe special interest groups trying to syphon off government spending. State spending seen as wasteful or geared toward a special interest is often called "pork" or "pork barrel" spending. However, UW students and climate activists claimed it was "racist."I-1631 campaigner Izzy Goodman tweeted in October that "this alone proves that he is a blatant racist (which is probably why his climate policies are too!)." She later added, "[UW] you going to stand for this?"When Mass tried to reason with her, UW philosophy Ph.D. candidate Alex Lenferna tweeted, "Calling you racist for saying racist things is not name calling, it's an accurate description." The post showed Mass's "small [government], racist, anti-working class view," tweeted Lenferna, who also campaigned for I-1631. Student activists didn't stop at Twitter insults. Curry, who spoke at length with Mass about the events, wrote, "The attacks ramped up when a group of students complained to the Assistant Dean for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion." Curry said the students accused Mass of "deception, being on the payroll of oil companies, purposely obfuscating with multiple twitter accounts, racism, misogyny, tokenism, Trumpism." Rather than meet with Cliff Mass to discuss, the Assistant Dean sent a mass email to the faculty of the Atmospheric Sciences Department" echoing student complaints," Curry wrote. The assistant dean's email claimed the blog had "imagery and text that was racially insensitive and caused offense to a significant number of members in the departmental community." The assistant dean made no attempt to contact Mass or try to "understand that there was no racism evident or intended, and that the image in question was quickly removed from the blog post," Curry wrote. The matter didn't end there, however, and Atmospheric Sciences Department Chair Dale Durran "sent a mass email to the Department faculty including the link to Lenferna's post, and voicing concern about Mass' behavior and 'racism,'" Curry noted. Durran held a faculty-wide meeting on Dec. 4. Durran reportedly took control of the meeting and even prevented Mass from finishing his opening remarks. (RELATED: Washington Governor Warns 'There Is Not Survival' From Climate Change. That Is, Unless His Policies Are Adopted)Durran "hectored Mass throughout the meeting," Curry wrote. "The activist students were true to form, hurling all kinds of insulting, personal and inappropriate remarks" as Mass sat through the inquisition. Duran was an ardent supporter of I-1631. Durran got 21 of his colleagues to sign a public letter, published in The Seattle Times in late October, endorsing the carbon tax ballot measure." ow is the time to take a big step to kick our carbon habit," Durran and his colleagues wrote. However, Curry reported that "several faculty members felt uncomfortable signing this," including one who told her they actually voted against the measure. Durran did not respond to TheDCNF's request for comment. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	True
221	cbsnews	left_center_bias	2019-03-31	He said it is meant to be flexible and sensible and not intended to bind one president with decisions made by another when determining offshore stewardship as needs and realities change over time.	Acting Assistant U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Wood said during a hearing before Gleason in November that environmental groups were misinterpreting the intent of the law written in 1953.	Erik Grafe, an attorney with Earthjustice, welcomed the ruling, saying it "shows that the president cannot just trample on the Constitution to do the bidding of his cronies in the fossil fuel industry at the expense of our oceans, wildlife and climate."	U.S. District Court Judge Sharon Gleason in a decision late Friday threw out Mr. Trump's executive order that overturned the bans that comprised a key part of Obama's environmental legacy.	At issue in the case was the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act.		Judge strikes down Trump's offshore drilling decision President Trump exceeded his authority when he reversed bans on offshore drilling in vast parts of the Arctic Ocean and dozens of canyons in the Atlantic Ocean, a U.S. judge said in a ruling that restored the Obama-era restrictions. U.S. District Court Judge Sharon Gleason in a decision late Friday threw out Mr. Trump's executive order that overturned the bans that comprised a key part of Obama's environmental legacy. Presidents have the power under a federal law to remove certain lands from development but cannot revoke those removals, Gleason said." The wording of President Obama's 2015 and 2016 withdrawals indicates that he intended them to extend indefinitely, and therefore be revocable only by an act of Congress," said Gleason, who was nominated to the bench by Obama. The American Petroleum Institute, a defendant in the case, disagreed with the ruling." In addition to bringing supplies of affordable energy to consumers for decades to come, developing our abundant offshore resources can provide billions in government revenue, create thousands of jobs and will also strengthen our national security," it said in a statement. Erik Grafe, an attorney with Earthjustice, welcomed the ruling, saying it "shows that the president cannot just trample on the Constitution to do the bidding of his cronies in the fossil fuel industry at the expense of our oceans, wildlife and climate." Earthjustice represented numerous environmental groups that sued the Trump administration over the April 2017 executive order reversing the drilling bans. At issue in the case was the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. Acting Assistant U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Wood said during a hearing before Gleason in November that environmental groups were misinterpreting the intent of the law written in 1953. He said it is meant to be flexible and sensible and not intended to bind one president with decisions made by another when determining offshore stewardship as needs and realities change over time. In 2015, Mr. Obama halted exploration in coastal areas of the Beaufort and Chukchi seas and the Hanna Shoal, an important area for walrus. In late 2016, he withdrew most other potential Arctic Ocean lease areas - about 98 percent of the Arctic outer continental shelf. The bans were intended to protect polar bears, walruses, ice seals and Alaska Native villages that depend on the animals. In the Atlantic, Mr. Obama banned exploration in 5,937 square miles of underwater canyon complexes, citing their importance for marine mammals, deep-water corals, valuable fish populations and migratory whales.	False
602	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-04-07	Several wealthy philanthropic groups such as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund (RBF), Rockefeller Family Fund (RFF), and the Open Society Foundations bankrolled large portions of the LA Times' report.	Wasserman wrote an op-ed in January for the California paper, fleshing out specifics about the probes into Exxon's climate research.	Columbia Journalism School's Energy and Environment Reporting Project, the group that conducted the paper's report, was also involved in an investigation last November targeting Exxon's climate change research.	Thursday's report dovetails with the group's previous investigations showing the oil company hid knowledge about climate change from the public for years."	The only way to target Exxon for hiding climate change research was to request the New York AGs office to open an investigation into the company, David Kaiser and Lee Wasserman, directors of RFF, wrote in an editorial for New York Books.		Enviro-Funded Report Ties Exxon Crusade To Largest Oil Spill In History Global warming is partially responsible for a decades-old oil spill that happened after an Exxon Mobil tanker hit a barrier reef, according to a Los Angeles Times report funded in part by liberal billionaire George Soros. The LA Times published a wide-ranging piece Thursday suggesting climate change laid the groundwork for the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill, a disaster that eventually dumped more than 10 million gallons of crude off the coast of Alaska. Higher than normal water temperatures near Prince William Sound caused ice bergs to chip off the Columbia Glacier and force the ship into uncharted territory. Floating chunks of ice forced the tanker out of its primary shipping lane, the paper noted. It veered off and crashed into the Bligh Reef, causing Exxon more than $3.4 billion through 2008 in cleanup costs and court settlements. Columbia Journalism School's Energy and Environment Reporting Project, the group that conducted the paper's report, was also involved in an investigation last November targeting Exxon's climate change research. Thursday's report dovetails with the group's previous investigations showing the oil company hid knowledge about climate change from the public for years." or the two decades following the Exxon Valdez disaster, the company worked quietly to safeguard its operations and infrastructure against steadily rising sea levels and thawing permafrost," The LA Times wrote. "Yet in public, it vociferously fought regulations and policies that would have limited fossil fuel emissions while publicly questioning the science behind climate change." Some climate scientists believe the LA Times is taking a leap of faith. Roy Spencer, a climate scientist at the University of Alabama in Huntsville, for one, told The Daily Caller News Foundation that "ice always calves off glaciers, because snow falls on the mountains, and the ice flows downhill — no global warming needed." There is a perfectly reasonable explanation for why ice bergs were cleaving off glaciers at the time of the Valdez disaster, he said, and it doesn't really have anything to do with man-made global warming." f the Columbia Glacier was calving more in the 1980s, it's most likely because the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) flipped in the late 1970s, which caused it to suddenly warm in Alaska," Spencer added, referencing an El Nino-like weather pattern that commonly affects the area the oil spill. What happened to the Valdez is no different than what happened to the Titanic, he said, referring to the passenger ship that hit an iceberg in 1912, which killed thousands of people heading to New York from England. Several wealthy philanthropic groups such as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund (RBF), Rockefeller Family Fund (RFF), and the Open Society Foundations bankrolled large portions of the LA Times' report. Soros is the director and founder of Open Society and has financed climate crusades in the past. RFF has single-handedly financially propped up the anti-Exxon campaign. It also pressured various attorneys general into investigating Exxon, namely for the purposes of bringing the company up on racketeering charges. The only way to target Exxon for hiding climate change research was to request the New York AGs office to open an investigation into the company, David Kaiser and Lee Wasserman, directors of RFF, wrote in an editorial for New York Books. The LA Times, for its part, has failed in the past to disclose its ties with RFF. Wasserman wrote an op-ed in January for the California paper, fleshing out specifics about the probes into Exxon's climate research. The paper disclosed the Wasserman's financial contributions to the investigation, but falsely suggested RFF had nothing to do with the investigations." he Fund has made grants to the Columbia Journalism School's Energy and Environment Reporting Project and InsideClimate News, but has no involvement in articles they produce," the paper's disclosure notes. The disclosure implies RFF did not actively participate in the investigations, which were first reported by environmental media group, InsideClimate News and the LA Times last November. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	False
86	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-02-06	We have young people that bring a lot of great qualities, but maybe they don't bring a lot of life experience," he said.	The proposals electrified a static debate that too often ranged from outright denialism of climate change by some to dubious market fixes offered by others.	"I guess I can understand if someone has not had a lot of life experience and they're proposing something that's extremely unrealistic ― well, impossible.	Despite years of partisan bickering over the realities of climate change, the idea proved popular.	What I don't understand is adults and grownups, who are older and more mature, who are also advocating something that's impossible," he added, referring to several of the 2020 Democratic presidential hopefuls.		The Republican Assault On The Green New Deal Begins Glamour Rep. John Shimkus (R-Ill.), long a climate change denier who in the past has relied on Bible verses to make his case, argued against the Green New Deal at a House hearing on Wednesday. Moments after he started speaking Wednesday morning before the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Rep. John Shimkus (R-Ill.) urged Democrats to "accept that proposing top-down government requirements to rapidly decarbonize the U.S. and global economies may not be the most realistic way to address the climate change problem." We should be open to the fact that wealth transfer schemes suggested in the radical policies like the Green New Deal may not be the best path," said Shimkus, who less than a decade ago deployed Bible verses to dismiss the realities of climate science. Two congressional hearings on Wednesday morning ― the first science-based discussions in the House focused on climate change in years ― did little to move the needle on a long-stagnant policy debate on how to keep global warming from reaching temperatures with catastrophic consequences. But GOP opposition to a Green New Deal, the grassroots effort to dramatically cut greenhouse gas emissions that has energized activists for months, was on full display. Once a vague term for clean-energy stimulus, the Green New Deal re-emerged in the political discourse in mid-2018. A cadre of left-wing Democratic candidates began using it to describe plans to spend trillions of dollars on a national industrial strategy to zero out fossil fuel emissions and power the country with 100 percent renewables in a decade. The proposals electrified a static debate that too often ranged from outright denialism of climate change by some to dubious market fixes offered by others. Scientists quickly praised the idea of a Green New Deal as the first policy on the scale of the climate crisis. In November, newly elected Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) positioned herself as the champion of the Green New Deal movement. After failing to persuade House Democratic leaders to establish a select committee on a Green New Deal, she began work on a sweeping new resolution outlining a transformative policy to guarantee high-wage clean energy jobs to millions of Americans and upgrade the nation's crumbling infrastructure to withstand already-unavoidable extreme weather and sea level rise. Despite years of partisan bickering over the realities of climate change, the idea proved popular. Eighty-one percent of registered voters said they supported the main goals of the Green New Deal in a poll released in December. That included 64 percent of Republicans and 57 percent of self-described conservative Republicans. Last month, another poll found a narrow majority of voters said they supported a Green New Deal even if it required raising taxes to fund it. Rich Powell, the executive director of the conservative clean energy advocacy group ClearPath, complained that the emissions projected to come from new coal-fired plants in other countries, particularly India and China, would "completely offset" the climate benefits of the U.S. completely decarbonizing. As HuffPost reported on Tuesday, the Green New Deal resolution Ocasio-Cortez and Sen. Ed Markey (D-Mass.) are expected to unveil this week does just that, calling on the nation to "promote the international exchange of technology, expertise, products, funding and services with the aim to reclaim U.S. leadership on climate change to help other countries achieve a Green New Deal." You only have to be 25 years old to be a member of Congress. We have young people that bring a lot of great qualities, but maybe they don't bring a lot of life experience," he said. "I guess I can understand if someone has not had a lot of life experience and they're proposing something that's extremely unrealistic ― well, impossible. Impossible." What I don't understand is adults and grownups, who are older and more mature, who are also advocating something that's impossible," he added, referring to several of the 2020 Democratic presidential hopefuls. Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) resorted to misrepresenting the Green New Del proposal in arguing against it. He said he and other Republicans "have real concerns" about shuttering military bases around the globe and cutting military spending by 50 percent ― proposals floated not by any congressional Democrats in the climate change debate but by Green Party presidential nominee Jill Stein in 2016. Gohmert told panel witness Rev. Lennox Yearwood, president of the national, nonprofit Hip Hop Caucus, that he found it "interesting" at the activist would support a Green New Deal, given Yearwood's previous service as an officer in the U.S. Air Force Reserve Chaplain Corps.	False
139	politicususa	left_bias	2019-08-28	he wants to distinguish herself from other candidates that have already laid out climate plans with her own approach that plays to her strengths, focusing on environmental justice and enforcement," said one of the sources.	At the same time it is intended to assuage environmental activists worried that she has downplayed climate change on the campaign trail.	Bahram Fazeli, director of research and policy for Communities for a Better Environment, a California-focused environmental justice group, said Harris' record on the environment was "decent."	While activist groups say they are generally happy with Harris' environmental credentials, she has drawn their criticism since launching her presidential bid.	The campaign is expected to release the plan ahead of a climate change-focused town hall with the candidates on Sept. 4, they said.A spokeswoman for Harris' campaign, Kate Waters, declined to comment on the details but said Harris would be releasing something "soon."		Kamala Harris' climate plan to draw on her experience suing polluters (Reuters) – U.S. presidential hopeful Kamala Harris' campaign is finalizing a plan to tackle climate change that will center on cracking down on fossil fuel companies and protecting poor neighborhoods from the worst impacts of global warming, according to two sources familiar with the matter. The plan is meant to set the U.S. senator from California apart in a crowded field of Democratic presidential candidates by drawing on her experience prosecuting polluters as a California attorney general and district attorney. At the same time it is intended to assuage environmental activists worried that she has downplayed climate change on the campaign trail. All of the other top-tier presidential candidates have already detailed aggressive plans to eliminate U.S. greenhouse gas emissions within 10 to 30 years, tapping into what has become a crucial issue for Democratic voters." he wants to distinguish herself from other candidates that have already laid out climate plans with her own approach that plays to her strengths, focusing on environmental justice and enforcement," said one of the sources. Like the other candidates, Harris' plan will also likely target a swift end to fossil fuels use, though the details are still being drafted, the sources said. The campaign is expected to release the plan ahead of a climate change-focused town hall with the candidates on Sept. 4, they said.A spokeswoman for Harris' campaign, Kate Waters, declined to comment on the details but said Harris would be releasing something "soon." While activist groups say they are generally happy with Harris' environmental credentials, she has drawn their criticism since launching her presidential bid. Last week, for example, she came under fire from the Sunrise Movement and other climate change activists when she initially declined to participate in the televised Sept. 4 climate change town hall to attend a fundraiser. Her campaign later announced she had changed her plans and would attend. During campaign speeches, she tends to include a brief mention of climate change, calling it a real crisis and adding that she would re-engage the United States in global efforts to fight it if elected. Republican President Donald Trump has rolled back U.S. climate change rules he views as damaging to the economy, and announced plans to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement, an international accord to limit global warming. Bahram Fazeli, director of research and policy for Communities for a Better Environment, a California-focused environmental justice group, said Harris' record on the environment was "decent." As a senator, Harris was among the original co-sponsors of the Green New Deal – a nonbinding congressional resolution to zero out U.S. emissions by 2030 – and introduced bills to denounce Trump's efforts to roll back California's vehicle emissions standards and drill for oil and natural gas in federal waters. She has also co-sponsored an environmental justice bill with Green New Deal author congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio Cortez, which includes the creation of a federal office for environmental justice. Previously, as California's attorney general, Harris was charged with protecting the state's progressive environmental laws in the courts. Her biggest environmental victory, according to green groups, came in 2016 when a grand jury indicted Plains All-American Pipeline on criminal charges related to a 2015 oil spill off the coast of Santa Barbara. She also reportedly launched an investigation in 2016 into whether Exxon Mobil lied to the public and shareholders about the risks of climate change, though her office never confirmed the probe. Since then both New York and Massachusetts have pursued cases against the oil company. Earlier, as district attorney for San Francisco, Harris also created the city's first environmental crimes unit.	False
187	theguardian	left_center_bias	2019-03-20	The petition is being circulated for signature by ) of the CompetitiveEnterprise Institute, a lobby group for "free market" fanatics which hasbecome infamous for ).	makes many inaccurate and misleadingassertions, such as: "Readily available data from both governmental and non-governmental sources confirms that extreme weather events in recent years havenot happened more often or with greater intensity."	Media reports suggest that Professor Happer and his fellow propagandists willtarget the ),which was prepared by leading researchers in the United States, and concludedlast November: "The impacts of climate change are already being felt incommunities across the country."	Americans should not be conned by the Trump administration's climatelysenkoism and should instead place their trust in the ) who place the public interest ahead of political ideology.	The creation of the new panel of climate change deniers, and the recruitmentof supporters to provide it with a veneer of legitimacy, echoes )to discredit the work of geneticists who disagreed with the) pseudo-scientific theories of TrofimLysenko.		Donald Trump is using Stalinist techniques against climate science | Michael Mann and Bob Ward Americans should not be fooled by the Stalinist tactics being used by theWhite House to try to discredit the findings of mainstream climate science. The Trump administration has already ) about climate change from governmentwebsites, )and attempted to ). Now a group of hardcore climate change deniers and contrarians linked to theadministration is ) in support of ) being set up by the NationalSecurity Council to promote an alternative official explanation for climatechange. The panel will consist of scientists who do not accept the overwhelmingscientific evidence that rising levels of carbon dioxide and other greenhousegases in the atmosphere are behind climate change and its impacts. The petition is being circulated for signature by ) of the CompetitiveEnterprise Institute, a lobby group for "free market" fanatics which hasbecome infamous for ). It does not disclose its sources of funding, but is known to have receivedmoney ) such as the Koch brothers. Mr Ebell, who has no expertise whatsoever in climate science – or any kind ofscience for that matter – was ) and diverted the focus of theEnvironmental Protection Agency towards weakening and removing policies thatlimit pollution by companies, including President Obama's Clean Power Plan. The creation of the new panel of climate change deniers, and the recruitmentof supporters to provide it with a veneer of legitimacy, echoes )to discredit the work of geneticists who disagreed with the) pseudo-scientific theories of TrofimLysenko. Lysenko wrongly believed that acquired traits could be passed on by parents totheir offspring. Stalin embraced lysenkoism as the basis for Sovietagricultural policy, while also denouncing and persecuting Lysenko'sscientific critics. The Trump administration's "climate lysenkoism" is being led by WilliamHapper, a retired professor from Princeton University ) inSeptember 2018 as deputy assistant to the president and senior director foremerging technologies. Media reports suggest that Professor Happer and his fellow propagandists willtarget the ),which was prepared by leading researchers in the United States, and concludedlast November: "The impacts of climate change are already being felt incommunities across the country." Although the report was subjected to )at the National Academy of Sciences, it was rejected by President Trump, )Professor Happer, who has not published any research on climate change in areputable science journal, has been celebrated for many years by climatechange contrarians and deniers around the world. He was formerly a trustee of the George C Marshall Institute, which receivedfunding from ExxonMobil and other companies to spread doubt inside and)about the role of fossil fuels in climate change. It disappeared in 2015 andwas replaced by the CO2 Coalition, which was co-founded by Professor Happer.) makes many inaccurate and misleadingassertions, such as: "Readily available data from both governmental and non-governmental sources confirms that extreme weather events in recent years havenot happened more often or with greater intensity." In fact, the Fifth Assessment Report by the Intergovernmental Panel on ClimateChange, published in 2013,):"Changes in many extreme weather and climate events have been observed sinceabout 1950."A recent leak of ) showedthat its largest donors are conservative groups, such as the Mercer FamilyFoundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation, which have a long track record offunding climate change denial. Professor Happer has also collaborated with climate change deniers in othercountries, such as the United Kingdom. In 2010, he joined the "AcademicAdvisory Committee" of the Global Warming Policy Foundation, which was set upby Lord Lawson to campaign against polices to reduce greenhouse gas emissionsfrom the consumption of fossil fuels. He stepped down from the committee whenhe was hired by the White House. The foundation published ) in August 2011 which disputed thescientific evidence that greenhouse gases are causing climate change. In July 2014, Professor Happer caused controversy during ) in the United States when he claimed that"the demonisation of carbon dioxide is just like the demonisation of the poorJews under Hitler. Carbon dioxide is actually a benefit to the world, and sowere the Jews." He was also forced to defend himself after Greenpeace revealed ) during which Professor Happer discussedwriting reports to promote climate change denial in exchange for a secret feepaid to the CO2 Coalition. Americans should not be conned by the Trump administration's climatelysenkoism and should instead place their trust in the ) who place the public interest ahead of political ideology.	False
510	usatoday	left_center_bias	2018-02-09	Comments can be submitted online through March 9.	Several demonstrators chanted in opposition at the open-house style meeting, where bureau scientists talked one-on-one with visitors and collected written comments."	The state agencies weighed in ahead of a public meeting Thursday in Sacramento, the only opportunity for people to register their opinions in person to the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management.	Jerry Brown and others to request a similar exemption.	t's critical to keep the dollars at home, create the jobs locally instead of sending the money overseas and creating jobs in foreign places," he said.		California officials, protesters unite to fight offshore drill plans SACRAMENTO, Calif. — Commissions that oversee coastal lands and water pushed the Trump administration to leave California out of plans to expand offshore drilling, saying the state will throw up any barriers possible to prevent pumping and transportation of oil. The warning came weeks after Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke said he wants to open nearly all U.S. coastlines to offshore oil and gas drilling. Since then, the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management has proposed six sales of drilling rights off the California coast and a seventh off Oregon and Washington between 2020 and 2023." iven how unpopular oil development in coastal waters is in California, it is certain that the state would not approve new pipelines or allow the use of existing pipelines to transport oil from new leases onshore," the State Lands Commission wrote in a letter Wednesday to federal officials. The commission controls up to 3 miles offshore, at which point federal jurisdiction kicks in. It has not allowed drilling in the state-controlled waters since a 1969 oil spill near Santa Barbara. State and local governments could also block the construction of helipads and other infrastructure on land needed to support offshore operations. In the 1980s, many coastal cities passed ordinances to block such infrastructure when President Ronald Reagan looked to expand offshore drilling. Many of those laws remain in place. Drillers could find ways around state and local restrictions — such as pumping oil directly onto ships for transport — but the process is expensive and may not be profitable if oil prices remain relatively low.A separate letter from the California Coastal Commission warned that an oil spill would devastate the state's tourism economy and coastal beauty. The letter pointed to the Santa Barbara spill, which caused severe environmental damage, hurt the fishing industry and dissuaded tourists from visiting. The commission has authority to review activities in federally controlled waters. It can't block drilling but could file a lawsuit contending the move doesn't meet ocean management plans approved jointly by the state and federal governments in the 1970s." e've fought similar efforts before, and we will fight them again," Coastal Commission Chair Dayna Bochco said. The state agencies weighed in ahead of a public meeting Thursday in Sacramento, the only opportunity for people to register their opinions in person to the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management. Fishermen, environmentalists, surfers and other critics demonstrated outside the state Capitol before marching to the meeting at a nearby library. Several demonstrators chanted in opposition at the open-house style meeting, where bureau scientists talked one-on-one with visitors and collected written comments." hy do we want to let someone start drilling for more oil when we need to be putting money into resources for green economy and green fuel," said Jim Wilson, a 71-year-old retired mail carrier from Placerville, outside Sacramento. Earlier in the day, the California Assembly voted overwhelmingly to oppose renewed drilling." e are California and we will fight back to protect our beautiful coast," said Assemblyman Al Muratsuchi of Torrance. Republicans Randy Voepel of Santee and Travis Allen of Huntington Beach said California can safely harvest oil and gas. Allen, a GOP candidate for governor, said that could help lower gasoline prices. Most of California's outer continental shelf – the area that would be opened to drilling – is in shallow water, where operations are not complicated, said Tim Charters, senior director of government and political affairs for the National Ocean Industries Association, a trade group for the offshore energy industry." t's critical to keep the dollars at home, create the jobs locally instead of sending the money overseas and creating jobs in foreign places," he said. Zinke angered critics when he said drilling off Florida's coast would remain off limits, prompting California Gov. Jerry Brown and others to request a similar exemption. Regulators later said no final decision had been made about Florida. On Tuesday, more than 100 demonstrators gathered outside Oregon's state Capitol in Salem to denounce the proposal. A day later in New Jersey, more than a dozen groups held a rally in the driving rain on the Asbury Park boardwalk to demonstrate their opposition. Twenty-three meetings are planned nationwide in coastal states. Comments can be submitted online through March 9.	False
737	Politicus USA	left_bias	2017-10-05	While the previous administration let science and data drive its climate agenda, the Trump administration has had one goal in mind: destroying former President Obama's environmental legacy.	U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte of the Northern District of California said Interior had failed to give a "reasoned explanation" for the changes and had not offered details why an earlier analysis by the Obama administration was faulty.	On Wednesday, one federal judge reminded Donald Trump that hating Barack Obama is not a good enough reason to ignore key environmental protections.	As the U.S. Magistrate Judge Laporte noted in her ruling, the reason she called for the Obama-era rule to be reinstated right away is that the Trump administration cannot give a "reasoned explanation" as to why it's flawed.	In a way, that cuts to the heart of everything this administration has done so far when it comes to environmental policy.		Federal Judge Smacks Down Trump Effort To Dismantle Obama-Era Environmental Protection A federal judge smacked down a new effort by the Trump administration to roll back an Obama-era rule "aimed at restricting harmful methane emissions from oil and gas production on federal lands," according to a new report on Wednesday. The news comes as Donald Trump's Interior Department was in the process of delaying the regulation until 2019, calling it "too burdensome to the industry." More from the report via The Washington Post:The order by a judge in San Francisco came as the Interior Department moved to delay the rule until 2019, saying it was too burdensome to industry. The action followed an earlier effort by Interior to postpone part of the rule set to take effect next year. U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte of the Northern District of California said Interior had failed to give a "reasoned explanation" for the changes and had not offered details why an earlier analysis by the Obama administration was faulty. She ordered the entire rule reinstated immediately. As the U.S. Magistrate Judge Laporte noted in her ruling, the reason she called for the Obama-era rule to be reinstated right away is that the Trump administration cannot give a "reasoned explanation" as to why it's flawed. In a way, that cuts to the heart of everything this administration has done so far when it comes to environmental policy. After all, there is no reasonable explanation for anything this president has done when it comes to the environment, whether it's allowing toxic sludge to be dumped in our waterways or pulling out of the historic Paris climate accord. While the previous administration let science and data drive its climate agenda, the Trump administration has had one goal in mind: destroying former President Obama's environmental legacy. On Wednesday, one federal judge reminded Donald Trump that hating Barack Obama is not a good enough reason to ignore key environmental protections.	False
378	foxnews	right_bias	2018-11-25	Report director David Reidmiller said questions about the timing were "relevant," but said what was in the report was more important.	"We're in an era of backlash against elites, so Gore, a guy who bought a 6,500-square-foot seafront home in California for $8.8 million, and who hangs around with other celebrities who talk big on climate but who live lavish lifestyles, is the perfect target at this point in time."	e is a flawed character," Stephen Lacey, editor-in-chief of the magazine GreenTechMedia, said on his podcast "The Energy Gang" last year.	The day, known as Black Friday, has become the traditional start of the holiday shopping season and one that most Americans have off from work."	It was written long before the deadly fires in California this month and before Hurricanes Florence and Michael raked the East Coast and Florida."		Al Gore blasts Trump for 'burying' climate report by releasing it on Black Friday Former Vice President Al Gore accused the Trump administration of trying to "bury' a damning government report that linked global warming to the worsening of natural disasters by quietly releasing the study on the Friday after Thanksgiving. Gore, who since his time as vice president has become an outspoken advocate for the need to counteract the effects of global warming, said in a statement that the White House was trying to "bury this critical U.S. assessment of the climate crisis" by releasing it the day after Thanksgiving. The day, known as Black Friday, has become the traditional start of the holiday shopping season and one that most Americans have off from work." nbelievably deadly and tragic wildfires rage in the West, hurricanes batter our coasts — and the Trump administration chooses the Friday after Thanksgiving to try and bury this critical U.S. assessment of the climate crisis," Gore said in a statement that he posted on Twitter Friday. "The president may try to hide the truth, but his own scientists and experts have made it as stark and clear as possible." The National Climate Assessment, which is mandated by law every few years and is based on more than 1,000 previous research studies, details how global warming -- from the burning of coal, oil and gas -- is hurting each region of the United States and how it impacts different sectors of the economy, including energy and agriculture. It was written long before the deadly fires in California this month and before Hurricanes Florence and Michael raked the East Coast and Florida." Climate change is transforming where and how we live and presents growing challenges to human health and quality of life, the economy, and the natural systems that support us," the report says. This includes worsening air pollution causing heart and lung problems, more diseases from insects, the potential for a jump in deaths during heat waves, and nastier allergies, according to the report." nnual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century — more than the current gross domestic product (GDP) of many U.S. states," the report says. It'll be especially costly on the nation's coasts because of rising seas and severe storm surges, which will lower property values. And in some areas, such as parts of Alaska and Louisiana, coastal flooding will likely force people to relocate." While Gore has become one of the most prominent advocates for reducing carbon emissions and fighting to reduce the effect of climate change, the former vice president has not been immune from claims that his work is not as altruistic as it appears. Gore left the vice president's residence with a relatively modest net worth of $1.7 million -- mostly from family farm assets -- but since the release of his 2006 documentary "An Inconvenient Truth" and his continuing global tour to preach his message, he has amassed a fortune valued at upward of $200 million. From the fossil fuels he burns jetting around the globe, to his socializing with Hollywood heavy hitters, to his 6,500-square-foot seafront home in California that cost $8.8 million, some climate activists have questioned whether Gore is helping or hurting the climate fight." e is a flawed character," Stephen Lacey, editor-in-chief of the magazine GreenTechMedia, said on his podcast "The Energy Gang" last year. "We're in an era of backlash against elites, so Gore, a guy who bought a 6,500-square-foot seafront home in California for $8.8 million, and who hangs around with other celebrities who talk big on climate but who live lavish lifestyles, is the perfect target at this point in time." Gore's lifestyle aside, his statement comes amid what appears to be a continuing denial from Trump and members of his administration about the dangers climate change poses to the environment and to the world's economy. Earlier in the week, Trump tweeted about the brutal cold spell that hit the East Coast over the Thanksgiving holiday and questioned "Whatever happened to Global Warming?"Friday's report seemed to anticipate such comments, saying: "Over shorter timescales and smaller geographic regions, the influence of natural variability can be larger than the influence of human activity ... Over climate timescales of multiple decades, however, global temperature continues to steadily increase." The Lower 48 states have warmed 1.8 degrees (1 degree Celsius) since 1900 with 1.2 degrees in the last few decades, according to the report. By the end of the century, the U.S. will be 3 to 12 degrees (1.6 to 6.6 degrees Celsius) hotter depending on how much greenhouse gases are released into the atmosphere, the report warns. Releasing the report on Black Friday "is a transparent attempt by the Trump administration to bury this report and continue the campaign of not only denying, but suppressing the best of climate science," said study co-author Andrew Light, an international policy expert at the World Resources Institute. During a press conference Friday, officials behind the report repeatedly declined to answer questions about the timing of its release and why it contradicts public statements from Trump. Report director David Reidmiller said questions about the timing were "relevant," but said what was in the report was more important. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False
476	theguardian	left_center_bias	2018-11-18	So there is an atmospheric element which is part of the natural cycle and then there is an increasing effect of climate change."	He has described it as "raw data" and said "there is the likely possibility that the list contains duplicate names" and some evacuees who have not reported themselves safe.	I have a strong opinion.	We're going to have that."	Butte county sheriff Kory Honea has stressed that the roster has been built up from missing person reports from calls, reports and emails since the fire began on 8 November.		California fires: death toll rises to 79 as winds threaten efforts to control blaze Strong winds on Sunday were expected to hamper progress for crews battling California wildfires which have now claimed at least 79 lives. Gusts of up to 50mph were threatening efforts to control the Camp blaze, which is still only 55% contained 10 days after it brought devastation to northern California. The fire which destroyed nearly 10,000 homes and has spread across 233sq miles is already the deadliest American wildfire in a century. And there are fears that the eventual death toll will rise much higher, with almost 1,300 people still unaccounted for. However, it seems likely that number of missing persons may be an over-estimate amid confusion over the way the list has been compiled. Butte county sheriff Kory Honea has stressed that the roster has been built up from missing person reports from calls, reports and emails since the fire began on 8 November. He has described it as "raw data" and said "there is the likely possibility that the list contains duplicate names" and some evacuees who have not reported themselves safe. California's outgoing Democratic governor Jerry Brown visited the scene of devastation at the town of Paradise with Donald Trump on Saturday. He told CBS's Face the Nation that Trump has "got our back" and has committed emergency support. Trump initially blamed state officials for poor forest management in making the fires in northern and southern California worse and even threatened to cut off federal funding. At the scene on Saturday, Trump recounted a conversation he had in Paris on 11 November with Finland's president Sauli Niinisto, who talked about monitoring forest resources with a good surveillance system. Trump said wildfires weren't a problem in Finland because the Finns "spend a lot of time on raking" leaves and "cleaning and doing things". But Sauli Niinistö, president of Finland, told one of the country's leading newspapers, Ilta-Sanomat, on Sunday that he never discussed raking with Trump."  mentioned [to] him that Finland is a land covered by forests and we also have a good monitoring system and network," Niinistö said, but had no recollection of mentioning raking of leaves or forest undergrowth, which the president appears to have seized on as a key point in wildfire prevention, while dismissing the issue of global warming. Asked on Saturday whether he thought climate change had a role in the fires, he said "you have a lot of factors". And asked if seeing the devastation changed his mind on climate change, Trump said: "No. No. I have a strong opinion. I want great climate. We're going to have that." Jerry Brown, in the interview aired on Sunday, said: "Changing climate and the increasing drought and the lower humidity and water vapor" were important factors. He said: "Managing the forest is part of it. They're a lot denser than they were 200 years ago. But on top of that, we have this five year drought. We have reduced rainfall. We have the dryness that turns vegetation and bushes and houses and trees into – literally into timber. So it's ready to explode. So there is an atmospheric element which is part of the natural cycle and then there is an increasing effect of climate change." But asked if he had made that case to Trump, he said: "I certainly raised it but I didn't feel that that was where we needed to go," then added that science would be the guide for analysing the fires "and the president in no way negated that".	False
294	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-10-09	s I've traveled this country, I've heard the human stories from frontline communities.	Families where many people have cancer.	For instance, Warren says her housing plan will provide an assistance program, aimed to get impoverished families out of poor, pollution-ridden neighborhoods and into the "neighborhood of their choice."	In this instance, it is the "Superfund Waste Tax."	Warren argues that "justice" plays a massive role in properly addressing the climate change "crisis," citing studies that suggest that black and Hispanic families are disproportionately affected by air pollution caused by white people:Warren calls this phenomenon "environmental racism" and concludes that "environmental injustice is the result of decades of discrimination and environmental racism compounding in communities that have been overlooked for too long."		Elizabeth Warren Touts Plan to Address 'Environmental Racism' Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) on Wednesday unveiled her plan to address "environmental injustice" and "environmental racism," which includes a $1 trillion investment into minority communities affected by "industrial pollution." Warren argues that "justice" plays a massive role in properly addressing the climate change "crisis," citing studies that suggest that black and Hispanic families are disproportionately affected by air pollution caused by white people:Warren calls this phenomenon "environmental racism" and concludes that "environmental injustice is the result of decades of discrimination and environmental racism compounding in communities that have been overlooked for too long." She previewed her plan in a video clip featuring far-left "Squad" member Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-MI)." e need a government that's on the side of families—not giant corporations polluting our communities. @RashidaTlaib and I walked through 48217, the most polluted zip code in Michigan, and talked with the families living every day with the effects of pollution," Warren tweeted alongside the clip:Like Warren's other proposals, her environmental injustice plan weaves in aspects of her other campaign promises. For instance, Warren says her housing plan will provide an assistance program, aimed to get impoverished families out of poor, pollution-ridden neighborhoods and into the "neighborhood of their choice." She also pledges to invest one-third – or $1 trillion – of her climate change investment "into the most vulnerable communities," although she does not specify what the $1 trillion will be spent on, specifically. Like most of Warren's plans, her environmental injustice proposal involves the implementation of another tax. In this instance, it is the "Superfund Waste Tax." There are over 1300 remaining Superfund sites across the country, many located in or adjacent to frontline communities. So-called "orphan" toxic waste clean-ups were originally funded by a series of excise taxes on the petroleum and chemical industries. But thanks to Big Oil and other industry lobbyists, when that tax authority expired in 1995 it was not renewed. Polluters must pay for the consequences of their actions – not leave them for the communities to clean up. I'll work with Congress to reinstate and then triple the Superfund tax, generating needed revenue to clean up the mess. The presidential hopeful even weaves in Medicare for All as part of her broader proposal, arguing such a system will "make it easier for the federal government to quickly tailor health care responses to specific environmental disasters in affected communities when they occur." Warren also reiterates her pledge to "ensure that employers and our government honor the promises they made to workers in fossil fuel industries." I've fought for years to protect pensions and health benefits for retired coal workers, and I'll continue fighting to maintain the solvency of multi-employer pension plans," she said. "As president, I'll protect those benefits that fossil fuel workers have earned." However, Warren's role in crafting a petition to the Supreme Court on behalf of LTV Steel – which helped the company's "fight against a congressional requirement that it pay millions of dollars into a fund for its retired coal miners' health care" – calls her promise into question." s I've traveled this country, I've heard the human stories from frontline communities. Families where many people have cancer. Coastal communities facing the threat of rising sea levels. Ruined land and poisoned water," Warren tweeted." hese communities need justice—and I will stand with them," she added:	False
386	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-12-18	org.	Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on "climate change and the migrant caravan," claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence, "climate change is also playing a part" based on an interview with a farmer-turned-migrant who's crop failed.	The video, published on Dec. 13, largely reflects arguments made by some media outlets in the past few months that migrant caravans to the U.S. are a "preview of climate migrations" — meaning people driven from their homes due to global warming.	Many experts who have seriously examined claims linking climate to violent conflict and mass migrations have found little evidence to support such claims, but the media still applied the narrative by linking global warming to Central American migrations."	The Guardian also noted that federal data showed "a surge in outward migration from western Honduras, a prime coffee-producing area."		Al Gore: Migrant Caravan Is A 'Startling Example' Of Global Warming Former Vice President Al Gore said the Central American migrant caravan seeking asylum in the U.S. is a "recent, startling example" of global warming forcing people from their homes." eople from all over the world are being forced to migrate because the climate crisis is affecting their livelihood. The migrant caravan from Central America is a recent, startling example," Gore tweeted Monday. The migrant caravan, made up of thousands of mostly young males from Honduras and other Central American countries, arrived at the U.S.-Mexico border in November seeking asylum. Migrants are fleeing violent, corrupt countries with poor economies, but some environmentalists and journalists claim global warming is also to blame. Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on "climate change and the migrant caravan," claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence, "climate change is also playing a part" based on an interview with a farmer-turned-migrant who's crop failed. The video, published on Dec. 13, largely reflects arguments made by some media outlets in the past few months that migrant caravans to the U.S. are a "preview of climate migrations" — meaning people driven from their homes due to global warming. Many experts who have seriously examined claims linking climate to violent conflict and mass migrations have found little evidence to support such claims, but the media still applied the narrative by linking global warming to Central American migrations." xperts say that … climate change in the region is exacerbating – and sometimes causing – a miasma of other problems including crop failures and poverty," The Guardian reported in October." nd they warn that in the coming decades, it is likely to push millions more people north towards the US," the paper reported. Central American officials also claim global warming is part of the reason why their citizens are fleeing en mass. Governments say droughts have been made more frequent and intense by global warming. However, the latest United Nations climate report in 2014 found "low confidence in a global-scale observed trend in drought or dryness (lack of rainfall) since the middle of the 20th century." The Guardian also noted that federal data showed "a surge in outward migration from western Honduras, a prime coffee-producing area." The collapse in coffee bean prices has made growing it less profitable, forcing migrants to hit the road. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
239	usatoday	left_center_bias	2019-02-26	Asked about the formation of the panel, a National Security Council representative said the administration wants to ensure that "decisions are fully informed and based on the most accurate and relevant information available."	But the public relations war over how to address it is heating up as both sides navigate an issue expected to be a top issue in the 2020 election.	During Tuesday's hearing, NASA Earth Science Division Director Michael Freilich was asked about the scientific integrity of the administration's most recent climate assessment, released in November, which White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders described as "not based on facts."	This unaccountable working group appears set to deliberately cherry-pick data and science with the sole purpose of pushing back against the widely accepted science around climate change," he said at a hearing Tuesday that featured government scientists testifying on the crisis.	"We have made measurements of many climate indicators and many of the Earth's systems and it is clear that the climate is changing."		Climate change: Democratic lawmaker rips Donald Trump&apos;s panel on climate science as &apos;dangerous&apos; WASHINGTON – The Democratic chairman of a key congressional panel Tuesday characterized the Trump administration's latest efforts to challenge the science behind climate change as "dangerous." The comments by Rep. José Serrano, D-N.Y., chairman of a House Appropriations subcommittee overseeing federal climate funding, came amid news reports that White House officials are putting together a national security advisory panel aimed at countering the science behind human-caused global warming. The panel's findings could give President Donald Trump, who has challenged his own government's conclusions about the causes of and threats from climate change, more ammunition to ignore it. Serrano, who chairs the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies, said that would be perilous." This unaccountable working group appears set to deliberately cherry-pick data and science with the sole purpose of pushing back against the widely accepted science around climate change," he said at a hearing Tuesday that featured government scientists testifying on the crisis. "This only serves to diminish the magnitude of this crisis, and it is dangerous." Shortly after Serrano spoke, Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., announced Senate Democrats are drafting legislation that would block the White House from creating the panel." This is maybe the most conspicuous symptom of a disease of climate denial that has infected the Republican Party and the hard right," Schumer said at a Capitol Hill news conference. The science is largely settled on climate change and the threats it poses the panel. But the public relations war over how to address it is heating up as both sides navigate an issue expected to be a top issue in the 2020 election. Democrats who retook the House following the 2018 midterm election have been holding numerous hearings on the crisis. Republicans, in turn, have accused Democrats of trying to use climate change to impose a leftist agenda that would ruin the economy. In early February, progressive Democrats unveiled their Green New Deal to remake the American economy into a social justice model focused on clean energy. But moderate Democrats have distanced themselves from the broadly worded plan that also calls for free housing, health care and higher education for all Americans, preferring only to endorse the portions that directly address climate change. Related: 250 dead, $91 billion in damages: 2018 was a catastrophic year for U.S. weather; 4th-warmest for globeRelated: Green New Deal: Why the GOP secretly likes Democrats' climate change planRelated: Climate combat: Democrats say Pentagon puts troops at risk by downplaying global warmingTrump has touted environmental deregulation and his abandonment of Obama-era steps to confront climate change as pillars of his "America First" economic agenda that has helped spur growth and lift the financial markets. But moderate Republicans are urging their party to stop challenging the science and starts confronting the problem of higher temperatures, worsening natural disasters and rising sea levels." This is like a call to arms. Let's have conservatives have a discussion instead of being in denial that this is a problem," former Ohio GOP Gov. John Kasich, who ran against Trump in 2016, is expected to say at a speech Tuesday at the University of British Columbia. "You can't just be a science denier." The White House would not confirm reports on the panel. Asked about the formation of the panel, a National Security Council representative said the administration wants to ensure that "decisions are fully informed and based on the most accurate and relevant information available." John Kerry, who served as President Barack Obama's secretary of State, wrote in a Washington Post column Tuesday that Trump should abandon the effort to discredit the science." As we careen toward irreversible environmental tipping points, we have no time to waste debating alternative facts only to invest years more reestablishing trust in the real ones," Kerry wrote. "No panel 10 years from now can put the ice sheets back together or hold back rising tides." During Tuesday's hearing, NASA Earth Science Division Director Michael Freilich was asked about the scientific integrity of the administration's most recent climate assessment, released in November, which White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders described as "not based on facts." The report "is a comprehensive, scientifically rigorously analysis and assessment if the available information primarily from the U.S. government," Freilich said. "We have made measurements of many climate indicators and many of the Earth's systems and it is clear that the climate is changing." David Doniger, a climate change expert with the Natural Resources Defense Council, said he was not worried about the administration's efforts to discredit the science given the preponderance of evidence." It just seems so late in the day," he said. "It's no longer a future hypothetical, it's real. And to think that you're going to be able to stave off public concerns and public demand for action by ... writing a denial report seems too late."	False
802	PBS	left_center_bias	2017-10-09	The rule dictated specific emission targets for states based on power-plant emissions and gave officials broad latitude to decide how to achieve reductions.	Even so, the plan helped drive a recent wave of retirements of coal-fired plants, which also are being squeezed by lower costs for natural gas and renewable power, as well as state mandates promoting energy conservation.	The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change, including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal-burning power plants.	Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker contributed to this report from Washington.	Closely tied to the oil and gas industry in his home state, Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man-man emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change.		EPA chief says White House to roll back Obama-era clean power plan HAZARD, Ky. — The head of the Environmental Protection Agency said Monday that he will sign a new rule overriding the Clean Power Plan, an Obama-era effort to limit carbon emissions from coal-fired power plants." he war on coal is over," EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt declared in the coal mining state of Kentucky. For Pruitt, getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma. Pruitt was among about two-dozen attorney generals who sued to stop President Barack Obama's push to limit carbon emissions. Closely tied to the oil and gas industry in his home state, Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man-man emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change. President Donald Trump, who appointed Pruitt and shares his skepticism of established climate science, promised to kill the Clean Power Plan during the 2016 campaign as part of his broader pledge to revive the nation's struggling coal mines. In his order Tuesday, Pruitt is expected to declare that the Obama-era rule exceeded federal law by setting emissions standards that power plants could not reasonably meet. Appearing at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Pruitt said, "The EPA and no federal agency should ever use its authority to say to you we are going to declare war on any sector of our economy." Obama's plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. The rule dictated specific emission targets for states based on power-plant emissions and gave officials broad latitude to decide how to achieve reductions. The Supreme Court put the plan on hold last year following legal challenges by industry and coal-friendly states. Even so, the plan helped drive a recent wave of retirements of coal-fired plants, which also are being squeezed by lower costs for natural gas and renewable power, as well as state mandates promoting energy conservation. The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change, including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal-burning power plants. The president announced earlier this year that he will pull the United States out of the landmark Paris climate agreement. Nearly 200 countries have committed to combat global warming by reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming. Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker contributed to this report from Washington.	False
429	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-04-23	here needs to be some adjustments made in the perception of how important this bill is to bring it into the executive chamber, ready for the governor's signature," Englebright said Friday.	It requires 40 percent of state energy funding to go to the low-income neighborhoods and communities of color most vulnerable to sea level rise and extreme weather, and includes wage standards backed by labor unions for all state-funded green energy projects.	That support cuts across demographics, including 75 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 67 percent of people 65 years and older; 73 percent of urban dwellers and 67 percent of rural New Yorkers; and 74 percent of black people and 69 percent of whites.	The support breaks down similarly across the state, with 73 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 61 percent of people 65 and older; 71 percent of urbanites and 60 percent of rural people; and 75 percent of black people and 64 percent of whites.	As Nixon gains in the polls and lands magazine covers, Cuomo is scrambling to act on long-neglected progressive demands.		Andrew Cuomo Faces A Big Test On Climate Change. He's Already Failed Twice. And on Monday, 19 buses carrying more than 1,500 activists from across the state converged on the state capital to protest Cuomo's failure to do more about climate change in his eight years in office, and make demands that looked identical to Nixon's platform. It was the largest environmental protest against Cuomo since anti-fracking activists staged demonstrations in 2014. To some, Cuomo's status as a climate pariah may be surprising. In 2014, he put a moratorium on hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, for natural gas in the state. In 2015, Al Gore joined the governor as he announced plans to cut the state's greenhouse gases emissions 40 percent by 2030. Last June, Cuomo loudly rejected President Donald Trump's move to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate accord, ramping up New York's pledge to produce half its electricity from renewables by 2030 and forging a new alliance with the governors of Washington and California to stick to the goals agreed to by former President Barack Obama. "Climate change is a reality, and not to address it is gross negligence by government," said Cuomo, according to a new page on the state website with the banner: "Environment Leadership." But Cuomo's policies still fail to meet even the baseline targets scientists say are needed to make a difference on global warming. His reduction targets focus exclusively on power plants, ignoring the majority of the state's emissions that come from buildings and vehicles. He has no plan to get the state to 100 percent renewable electricity, and has offered little to protect low-income communities and neighborhoods of color that suffer most from the impacts of climate change. The state's pension funds remain invested in fossil fuels, and polluters face no penalties in the form of fines on climate-linked damage or taxes on emissions. As Nixon gains in the polls and lands magazine covers, Cuomo is scrambling to act on long-neglected progressive demands. Three weeks ago, over coffee and cookies at a Manhattan steakhouse, the governor made a deal to disband the Independent Democratic Conference, known as the IDC. The group of eight breakaway Democrats in the state Senate caucused with Republicans, guaranteeing a conservative majority in the chamber ― now only one holdout, Brooklyn Democrat Simcha Felder, has left Republicans with a flimsy one-vote majority. Cuomo also signed an executive order last week restoring voting rights to felons on parole and voiced support for legalizing recreational marijuana, a policy Nixon made a platform issue in her campaign. On Friday, almost simultaneous to the release of Nixon's climate platform, Cuomo denied a water quality permit to a new natural gas pipeline environmentalists have protested for months, and announced a new energy efficiency initiative that would account for one-third of the emissions cuts required to meet his 2030 target. But Cuomo's next big test on climate change is one he has already failed twice. For the third time in as many years, the state assembly is slated to vote this week on the latest version of the New York State Climate and Community Protection Act, known as the CCPA. The bill is widely considered the most ambitious and egalitarian climate legislation introduced anywhere in the nation. Heather McGhee, president of the left-leaning think tank Demos, and the economist Robert Reich called it "the most progressive climate-equity policy we've seen." The legislation, first introduced in 2016, calls for 100 percent renewable energy statewide by 2050 and orders state agencies to draft plans to cut greenhouse gas emissions from power plants, buildings and vehicles. It requires 40 percent of state energy funding to go to the low-income neighborhoods and communities of color most vulnerable to sea level rise and extreme weather, and includes wage standards backed by labor unions for all state-funded green energy projects. If enacted, the bill's proponents say it would create more than 100,000 jobs. For Assemblyman Steve Englebright, the Long Island Democrat who first introduced the CCPA, the bill is 20 years overdue. The 71-year-old lawmaker from Setauket, a coastal hamlet on Long Island Sound, started warning about the threat of runaway global warming two decades ago. He has since sponsored several bills to support solar and wind production, at least three of which became laws. In 2016, he became chairman of the Assembly Committee on Environmental Conservation and moved swiftly to draft and introduce the CCPA." here needs to be some adjustments made in the perception of how important this bill is to bring it into the executive chamber, ready for the governor's signature," Englebright said Friday. "If we can get it onto his desk, he'll have no choice but to sign it." New Yorkers overwhelmingly support environmental regulations even at an economic cost. Seventy-one percent of New Yorkers support expanding renewable energy generation even if it raises electricity prices, compared to 61 percent nationwide, according to Cooperative Congressional Election Study's 2016 survey results analyzed for HuffPost by Data for Progress, a left-leaning think tank. That support cuts across demographics, including 75 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 67 percent of people 65 years and older; 73 percent of urban dwellers and 67 percent of rural New Yorkers; and 74 percent of black people and 69 percent of whites. Sixty-seven percent of New Yorkers support strengthening enforcement of clean air and water regulations even if it costs U.S. jobs, compared to 58 percent nationwide. The support breaks down similarly across the state, with 73 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 61 percent of people 65 and older; 71 percent of urbanites and 60 percent of rural people; and 75 percent of black people and 64 percent of whites.	False
512	theguardian	left_center_bias	2018-12-14	For 2020 and beyond, climate justice will have to become the most animatingissue for Democrats – not because it's a "winning" argument, though it is, butbecause the future of the planet depends on it.	The protection ofour water, they figure, shouldn't interfere with business.	It'snot just clean drinking water the Trump White House has disregarded.	The rest are fair game.	There will be much handwringing about the shattering of democratic norms, butthe real work will be in doing whatever we can, in the little time we have, toavert a true climate catastrophe.		Clean water: the latest casualty in Trump's attack on the environment |  Ross Barkan The cruelty and the idiocy of Donald Trump's presidency does not chiefly liein his tweets or even his words. Trump the performer is ridiculous, but that'sthe clown show that keeps many of us either terrified or entertained – thereal harm is elsewhere, away from the blaring headlines. Trump has been most destructive in his willingness to carry out an unabashedlyrightwing policy agenda. Most Republicans competing for the nomination in 2016embraced their party's total capitulation to the fossil fuel industry, denyingthe existence of climate change and promising to shred EnvironmentalProtection Agency (EPA) regulations. This is a central threat to America'sfuture: a major, powerful political party rejecting science itself. This week, the Trump administration said it would ) designed to protect millions of acres ofwetlands and thousands of miles of streams from pesticide runoff and otherpollutants. This proposal would not just undo Obama-era regulations but chipaway at protections instituted under the late George HW Bush, perhaps the lastmajor Republican to pay even lip service to the environment. The Obama era rule was designed to limit pollution in about 60% of thenation's bodies of water, protecting sources of drinking water for about athird of the United States. Federal authority was extended to limit pollutionin large bodies of waters and smaller bodies that drain into them, likestreams and wetlands. Rural landowners complained about the governmentregulating how much pollution from chemical fertilizers and pesticides couldseep into water on their property. Real estate developers and owners of golf courses attacked the waterregulations too, and cheered the news that Trump, a fan of both real estatedevelopment and golf, was delivering on a campaign promise. The protection ofour water, they figure, shouldn't interfere with business. Not only will it soon be easier for pollution to seep into our waterways, if adeveloper finds a wetland is in the way of a money-making opportunity, thehabitat can be paved over altogether. Wetlands adjacent to a major body ofwater will warrant federal protection. The rest are fair game. Environmentalists are rightfully horrified and fearful of what's to come. It'snot just clean drinking water the Trump White House has disregarded. Proposalshave circulated to weaken regulations on planet-warming emissions from powerplants, oil rigs, and cars. Trump is trying to speed new drilling at theArctic national wildlife refuge. As climate change accelerates and the planethurdles ever closer to an existential crisis, Trump went to a United Nationsconference to ) of fossil fuels. The current administrator of the EPA, Andrew Wheeler, used to spend his timelobbying against environmental regulations on behalf of coal magnate Robert EMurray. He was chief counsel to Senator James Inhofe of Oklahoma, a prouddenier of climate change. Democrats hoping Trump is impeached, indicted or somehow toppled before 2020should understand even such farfetched scenarios won't change the status quo. Trump has surrounded himself with people who care far more about the sanctityof fossil fuel profits than the safety of the American people. They worship atthe altar of nihilistic capitalism. Mike Pence won't save you. For 2020 and beyond, climate justice will have to become the most animatingissue for Democrats – not because it's a "winning" argument, though it is, butbecause the future of the planet depends on it. This is why Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez ) Nancy Pelosi's office to force supportfor a "Green New Deal". We are left with no other alternatives. The job of the next president will be to undo the damage Trump has wrought. There will be much handwringing about the shattering of democratic norms, butthe real work will be in doing whatever we can, in the little time we have, toavert a true climate catastrophe.	True
469	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-08-06	Be the solution, not the problem.	Im working alongside my addministration to formulate a plan of action to swiftly dayliver aids and support to all the suffered comuntitties."	(Right!)	But most readers were stumped — or derisive.	All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer.		Trump Accuses California Of Causing Wildfires By 'Diverting' Water To Pacific As California wildfires claimed their seventh victim, Donald Trump finally weighed in on the tragedy with one of his most confounding tweets ever, blaming California for the blazes because it "diverts" water to the Pacific Ocean. He also blamed the state's "bad environmental laws" — the most protective in the nation — and trees. He called for a "tree clear to stop fire spreading." He failed to express condolences to the families of the victims, thank firefighters, or offer comfort to Californians afraid for their lives, homes and communities. California wildfires are being magnified & made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized. It is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire spreading! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 5, 2018The tweet came just days after the Trump administration moved to scrap tough vehicle emissions standards — initially established by California. The move would clear the way for vehicles to pump an additional 600 million metric tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere by 2030. That's the equivalent of the entire annual emissions of Canada. It's unclear what the president meant by water "diverted" into the Pacific. California allocates water among residents, agricultural and industrial use, and for wetlands and wildlife, including water mandated to protect endangered species. But state waters eventually drain into the ocean. As one tweeter responded: "Water running into the Pacific Ocean is called a river." And firefighters haven't complained of a lack of water for battling the blazes. The tweet could be a muddled indication of support for a GOP battle in Washington for a larger water allocation to farmers, many of them Republican voters, in the drought-stricken state's central valley.  But it's unclear how that would help staunch California fires. The scientific consensus is that fires are becoming more common because of climate change, which Trump once called a Chinese "hoax." Twitter users were stunned the president failed to express concern about people suffering in the fires. But most readers were stumped — or derisive. One responded: "Thanks, genius. Problem solved." As a professor who specializes in wildfire management, there are a lot of things that are broken about how we prepare for & fight wildfires... but it's near impossible to overstate how ridiculous this comment is.  — Eric Kennedy (@ericbkennedy) August 5, 2018I had to come look if this was a real tweet. Ummmmm.... gee..... You seem to know next to nothing about California. Fires are more often fought with flame retardant. Mowing down a forest to keep the forest from burning is on the crazy side. — bree brinkenstein👻❄ (@eebrinkenstein) August 6, 2018Thank you for your heartfelt words of concern and support for the families who have lost everything. — Primrose Lane (@ridiculoustimes) August 6, 2018No you #StableGenius, scientists have been seeing the fingerprints of #climatechange all over these fires and it's making them far worse. Why don't you offer your condolences and then maybe read something aside from the McDonalds menu:  — Miroslava Korenha (@M_Korenha) August 6, 2018By "tree clear", I'm sure you're talking about logging. You're not interested in fire safety. All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer. — Audrey (@AudreyK27) August 6, 2018How about a shout out to the 15,000+ Firefighters who areputting their lives on the line backed with a commitment of support? That is what a real President would do. #Californiafires#California #Calfires — ⚑🌹 Big Ass Mustache🍭 (@XX7xluckydem0n) August 6, 2018JUST IN: The President of the United States blames environmental protection laws for California wildfires, and believes that useful fresh water is being diverted to the Pacific Ocean. It remains unclear if he also believes that the Earth is flat, and the sun revolves around it. — Trump Thoughts (@TrumpDotDotDot) August 5, 2018So... you want to stop trees from catching on fire... by removing the trees...?But I thought you believed so strongly in the environment. You said so! — Andrew (@AndrewSnarks) August 6, 2018I fixed your tweet, boo. Don't worry. I always got your back. "My hart goes out to all those infected by the kalifornia wildfires. Im working alongside my addministration to formulate a plan of action to swiftly dayliver aids and support to all the suffered comuntitties." — Joe Bereta of The Valleyfolk (@joebereta) August 5, 2018So how do you explain the fires in Wyoming, Idaho, Nevada, Arizona, Texas and Montana?Those states aren't exactly models of environmental regulation and yet they are burning also. — Eric Foltz (@EricFoltz) August 6, 2018What are you going to do with the "massive amount of water" that doesn't exist in California? Your destructive environmental policy is what causes climate change. Stop rolling back fuel & auto standards. Fix the EPA, don't dismantle it. Be the solution, not the problem. (Right!) — Zardoz commands that Trump should be impeached! (@mr3film) August 6, 2018	False
431	shareblue	left_bias	2018-10-14	Published with permission of The American Independent.	No matter what, the answer is "most or all of it."	o you believe [climate change] is, at least in part, man-made?"	Rubio said that while scientists agree that human behavior is "contributing" to climate change, "I can't tell you what percentage of that is due to human activity."	He also claimed that "many scientists" would "debate the percentage of what is attributable to man, versus normal fluctuations."		Marco Rubio lies about climate science while Florida drowns After Florida was hit by the devastating Hurricane Michael this week, Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL) made it clear he would rather lie about climate change, which makes these storms worse, than commit to doing anything to stop it. On Sunday morning's edition of CNN's "State of the Union," host Jake Tapper pressed Rubio about the recent United Nations report on climate change, which predicts global catastrophe if carbon emissions are not cut dramatically in the next 12 years." o you believe [climate change] is, at least in part, man-made?" Tapper asked. Rubio said that while scientists agree that human behavior is "contributing" to climate change, "I can't tell you what percentage of that is due to human activity." He also claimed that "many scientists" would "debate the percentage of what is attributable to man, versus normal fluctuations." No matter what we do with laws — let's say we went to all solar panels and did all that stuff, which is not realistic — this trend [of sea-level rise] would still continue," Rubio said. Instead of clean energy or reducing emissions, Rubio said he is focused on "strategies to mitigate those factors that are going be in place no matter what happens with our energy policy." But, he added, "I'm also not going to destroy our economy." Almost every word out of Rubio's mouth was either a lie or a shameful dodge. There is overwhelming scientific consensus, including from the United States government, that human activity is the main driver of climate change. There is no "debate" among scientists about this. Human society is overwhelmingly responsible for our warming planet. That's why it makes no sense to quibble, as Rubio does, about exactly what "percentage" of climate change is caused by humans. No matter what, the answer is "most or all of it." And contrary to Rubio's assertions, the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report says that drastic reductions in carbon emissions could, in fact, prevent the most catastrophic effects of climate change. The report says that in order to avoid irreversible global warming, "Global net human-caused emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) would need to fall by about 45 percent from 2010 levels by 2030, reaching 'net zero' around 2050." Reducing our carbon emissions will also reduce the effects of climate change. It's as simple as that. But Rubio apparently wants to throw up his hands and claim that since rising seas will drown Florida no matter what, all we can really do is strengthen levies or lift up roads and buildings. Rubio also seems to think that reducing carbon emissions would do more to "destroy our economy" than, say, allowing 1 million Florida homes to flood by the end of this century. Unfortunately, Republicans like Rubio have joined Trump in ignoring science, and doing everything they can to keep pumping as much carbon into the atmosphere as they can get away with. Americans deserve leaders who will do everything they can to prevent the catastrophic effects of climate change, instead of waffling and lying about it like Rubio. Published with permission of The American Independent.	True
466	vox	left_bias	2018-11-08	"In fact, as governor, I would like to get us on the road to 100 percent," Sisolak said in a campaign ad.	This is a ballot measure that commits Nevada to getting 50 percent of its energy from renewable sources by 2030.	Governors could drive the next wave of climate change action Environmentalists lamenting that a green wave didn't wash over Congress can find a glimmer of hope in the results of several key governor races.	These wins are critical because governors have executive authority that allows them to dictate some state energy priorities.	What that means is that the bulk of climate change and energy advances we're going to see in the United States over the next two years will come up through state legislatures and governors' offices.		Governors could drive the next wave of climate change action Environmentalists lamenting that a green wave didn't wash over Congress can find a glimmer of hope in the results of several key governor races. As of Wednesday, it looks like Democrats committed to fighting climate change gained several key governorships that could accelerate local and national progress in clean energy. Democrat Stephen Sisolak won in Nevada, Democrat Janet Mills won in Maine, and Democrat Michelle Lujan Grisham won in New Mexico. In the past two years, these states all passed renewable energy bills through their legislatures that were vetoed by Republican governors. But with these Democrats now heading into the governors' mansions, it's very likely that these states will take another run at clean energy legislation. Sisolak, for example, campaigned on his support Question 6, one of the few state clean energy ballot initiatives that passed on Tuesday. This is a ballot measure that commits Nevada to getting 50 percent of its energy from renewable sources by 2030. "In fact, as governor, I would like to get us on the road to 100 percent," Sisolak said in a campaign ad. Meanwhile Mills's platform included cutting Maine's greenhouse gas emissions 80 percent by 2030. And Grisham advocated new rules to regulate methane, a potent greenhouse gas, and has a long voting record in the House as a representative of New Mexico in favor of bills to address climate change. Democrats flipped executive offices in other states as well. Democrat Tony Evers, Wisconsin's governor-elect, defeated incumbent Scott Walker on a platform that included a pledge to join 17 other governors committed to the goals of the Paris climate agreement. These wins are critical because governors have executive authority that allows them to dictate some state energy priorities. They also play a huge role in how federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act are enforced. We saw this play out in North Carolina after the last election. The state passed a law in 2012 preventing the government from even considering the latest climate change science in its planning. Then Democrat Roy Cooper was elected and pulled an aggressive U-turn, going as far as to sign an executive order committing the state to cutting its greenhouse gas emissions 40 percent below 2005 levels by 2025. In 38 states, governors also appoint utility commissioners, who shape investment in energy infrastructure and can help decide whether to keep an aging coal plant online or to rapidly deploy renewables. That gives states like Nevada another lever to drive climate policies. Legislatures in several states — Maine, Colorado, New Hampshire, Connecticut, New York, Minnesota — also saw at least one chamber flip in favor of Democrats. In 13 states, Democrats now control the governorship along with upper and lower legislative chambers. This would allow them to pass aggressive renewable portfolio standards and greenhouse gas targets. But other governors races did not go as well — one high-profile candidate who made climate change a key part of his platforms, Democratic Florida gubernatorial contender Andrew Gillum, lost. As for national-level candidates, several House members who deny climate change like California Republican Devin Nunes held on to their seats. And Carlos Curbelo, a House Republican who proposed a carbon tax, was outflanked by his Democratic opponent Debbie Mucarsel-Powell. Curbelo also chaired the House Climate Solutions Caucus. The 90-member group counted 45 Republicans as members, but just 24 of them will return in January. (Since the caucus hadn't come up with many concrete solutions yet, it's unclear what it will do going forward.)Several state clean energy and environmental ballot initiatives were also thwarted at the polls. Measures like Colorado's anti-fracking Proposition 112 and Washington state's Initiative 1631 to price carbon emissions were defeated in part due to a firehose of money being unleashed by fossil fuel interests. What that means is that the bulk of climate change and energy advances we're going to see in the United States over the next two years will come up through state legislatures and governors' offices. But don't expect too much from a divided Congress and a president who is lackadaisical about whether climate change is even a problem.	False
739	PBS	left_center_bias	2017-09-21	The following excerpt of their interview has been edited for length and clarity.	There are some aspects that are really a sure thing.	But there are a lot of other factors that impact vulnerability as well.	RH: The types of mitigation efforts you're talking about are critical.	PS: Has flood insurance basically induced people to take risks that they shouldn't be taking?RH: Quite possibly.	And that has to be a key component of all strategies. <sep> But right now, during this era that we're living in, human activities and the burning of fossil fuels is, by far, the most powerful influence. <sep> Another concern is that, since that home was built, there may have been changes in development in surrounding areas. <sep> Don't they override, or mightn't they override, the kinds of things we as human beings are doing in the short term?RH: There are many things that can impact the climate, for sure. <sep> When people were assessing the risk originally and defining the flood zones, they [made estimates] based on 10, 20 years of rainfall data. <sep> 	How will climate change impact future floods and flood insurance? Editor's note: Radley Horton is a professor at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, where he studies climate extremes, impacts and adaptation. He spoke with NewsHour economics correspondent Paul Solman for Thursday's Making Sen$e segment on flood insurance. The following excerpt of their interview has been edited for length and clarity. Paul Solman: How certain are we, or can we be, that these storms and the flooding associated with them is a function of climate change?Radley Horton: There are many components to these storms. And, depending on what part we're talking about, the certainty differs. There are some aspects that are really a sure thing. For example, we know that sea levels are rising. We know that's going to continue. And even if storms don't change at all, just by virtue of raising that baseline, raising that floor, we're going to see more frequent and more severe coastal flooding. But, when we look at some of the really fundamental aspects of a storm itself, there's more uncertainty. The balance of evidence suggests that the strongest storms will become stronger, with stronger winds, more storm surge, as the planet warms, and as the upper oceans warm. But we can't say it's a sure thing. PS: What about the larger cycles of the planet? Don't they override, or mightn't they override, the kinds of things we as human beings are doing in the short term?RH: There are many things that can impact the climate, for sure. But right now, during this era that we're living in, human activities and the burning of fossil fuels is, by far, the most powerful influence. Just since the start of the industrial revolution, we've increased the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by about 40 percent. It's already caused sea levels to rise, close to a foot in many places along the U.S. coast. So that's increasing the risk of these types of storms. WATCH: Less than half of Florida homeowners have flood insurancePS: Can't we mitigate the effects of flooding? I mean, that's what they're doing, raising houses all over the coastline in the United States, and [countries like] Holland. RH: The types of mitigation efforts you're talking about are critical. This is what we often hear referred to as 'resilience' or 'adapting' to a changing climate. And that has to be a key component of all strategies. We absolutely do need to strengthen that infrastructure, whether it's elevating buildings, green infrastructure that can capture some of these excess water. We need those strategies. But you start to wonder, at what point have things changed too much for us to be able to adapt to? For example, if you look at parts of South Florida, as sea levels rise, as the water table rises, no matter how much money you put into trying to build sea walls, that water is just going to make its way up, like Swiss cheese through some of that limestone. You can't hold the water back. PS: So what would you advise somebody who lives in a floodplain? Should they just get out? [Because] many can't, economically, right? Or do they jack up their houses? Is that the best approach?RH: If you live in a flood zone, certainly you should be thinking about climate change. That's one of the dimensions. But there are a lot of other factors that impact vulnerability as well. When people were assessing the risk originally and defining the flood zones, they [made estimates] based on 10, 20 years of rainfall data. [That's] an insufficiently long sample to really estimate the true one-in-a-hundred-year risk. Another concern is that, since that home was built, there may have been changes in development in surrounding areas. If you look at what happened in Houston recently, so much of the natural area had been covered up with pavement. That changes the flood risk. [But when it comes to] the climate change piece, and if we're talking about homes that are in coastal zones, sea level rise is a game changer. PS: When the federal government redraws a map in a place like Pequannock, New Jersey, and includes more and more houses, hundreds more houses, in the floodplain, is the government potentially overreacting?RH: The government is trying to update using the latest available information. More years of weather data are now available, and there've been changes in the land use in some of these regions as well, that impact the path that that water takes. PS: Has flood insurance basically induced people to take risks that they shouldn't be taking?RH: Quite possibly. That's why we need a much deeper discussion, both about those properties that currently are insured, and about uninsured properties, and about properties that, as the climate changes, are going to be moving into newly defined flood zones. [In the future], we could see property values fall, not because water touches or doesn't touch some of these homes, but because of systemic risk, the inability of insurance to cover all these assets, or investors finally realizing that a lot of critical infrastructure isn't going to be fundable.	False
414	talkingpointsmemo	left_bias	2018-04-18	In Parrish, the mayor hopes the material in the train cars is removed before the weather warms up."	"It smells like rotting corpses, or carcasses.	It smells like death."	Rural parts of Alabama are "prime targets" for landfills that accept out-of-state waste, it argued, meaning "that Alabama was becoming a dumping ground for the rest of the nation."	It also caused the community to become "infested with flies," the complaint states.		Reeking 'Poop Train' Of NYC Human Waste Wreaks Havoc On Alabama Town PARRISH, Ala. (AP) — A stinking trainload of human waste from New York City is stranded in a tiny Alabama town, spreading a stench like a giant backed-up toilet — and the "poop train" is just the latest example of the South being used as a dumping ground for other states' waste. In Parrish, Alabama, population 982, the sludge-hauling train cars have sat idle near the little league ball fields for more than two months, Mayor Heather Hall said. The smell is unbearable, especially around dusk after the atmosphere has become heated, she said." h my goodness, it's just a nightmare here," she said. "It smells like rotting corpses, or carcasses. It smells like death." All kinds of waste have been dumped in Georgia, Alabama and other Southern states in recent years, including toxic coal ash from power plants around the nation. In South Carolina, a plan to store radioactive nuclear waste in a rural area prompted complaints that the state was being turned into a nuclear dump. In Parrish, townspeople are considering rescheduling children's softball games, or playing at fields in other communities to escape the stink. Sherleen Pike, who lives about a half-mile from the railroad track, said she sometimes dabs peppermint oil under her nose because the smell is so bad." ould New York City like for us to send all our poop up there forever?" she said. "They don't want to dump it in their rivers, but I think each state should take care of their own waste." Alabama's inexpensive land and permissive zoning laws and a federal ban on dumping New Yorkers' excrement in the ocean got the poop train chugging, experts say. Nelson Brooke of the environmental group Black Warrior Riverkeeper, describes Alabama as "kind of an open-door, rubber-stamp permitting place" for landfill operators." t's easy for them to zip into a rural or poor community and set up shop and start making a ton of cash," he said. The poop train's cargo is bound for the Big Sky landfill, about 20 miles (30 kilometers) east of Parrish. The landfill has been accepting the New York sewage sludge since early 2017. Previously, it was transferred from trains to trucks in nearby West Jefferson, but officials there obtained an injunction to keep the sludge out of their town. The sludge "smells of dead rotting animals as well as human waste," West Jefferson's attorney said in a lawsuit against Big Sky Environmental LLC. It also caused the community to become "infested with flies," the complaint states. After West Jefferson went to court, the train stopped in late January in Parrish, which lacks the zoning regulations to block the train cars. It's sat there ever since." e're probably going to look at creating some simple zoning laws for the town of Parrish so we can be sure something like this does not happen again," the Parrish mayor said. Hall said she's optimistic the sludge will all be trucked to the landfill soon. New York City has discontinued shipping it to Alabama for the time being, said Eric Timbers, a city spokesman. Its waste, recovered from the sewage treatment process and often called "biosolids," has been sent out of state partly because the federal government in the late 1980s banned disposal in the Atlantic Ocean. In an earlier trash saga, a barge laden with 3,186 tons (2,890 metric tons) of non-toxic paper and commercial garbage from Long Island and New York City wandered the ocean for months in 1987, seeking a place to dump it after plans by a private developer to turn it into methane gas in North Carolina fell through. It was turned away by North Carolina, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, Florida, Mexico, Belize and the Bahamas. Brooke's Black Warrior Riverkeeper group last year opposed continued permits for the Big Sky landfill. Rural parts of Alabama are "prime targets" for landfills that accept out-of-state waste, it argued, meaning "that Alabama was becoming a dumping ground for the rest of the nation." Big Sky officials did not return multiple email and phone messages from The Associated Press seeking comment. Nationally, the waste and recycling industry generates more than $93 billion in gross revenue annually, said Brandon Wright, a spokesman for the National Waste & Recycling Association. Wright said there are many reasons waste is sometimes transported out of state. There might not be enough landfill space nearby "and the waste has to go somewhere, so it gets transported out of state," he said. Alabama and other Southern states have a long history accepting waste from around the U.S.A former state attorney general once described a giant west Alabama landfill as "America's Pay Toilet." It was among the nation's largest hazardous waste dumps when it opened in 1977. At its peak, the landfill took in nearly 800,000 tons (72,570 metric tons) of hazardous waste annually. Plans to dump coal ash in Southern states have been particularly contentious. Each year, U.S. coal plants produce about 100 million tons (90 metric tons) of coal ash and other waste; more than 4 million tons of it wound up in an Alabama landfill following a 2008 spill in Tennessee. In Parrish, the mayor hopes the material in the train cars is removed before the weather warms up." e're moving into the summer, and the summer in the South is not forgiving when it comes to stuff like this," she said.	True
428	dailykos	left_bias	2018-04-26	As each day goes by and we find out more about Pruitt's conflicts of interests and revelations about his failed judgement , however, it's important to remember that his failures have real world impacts on the health of the people he is supposed to be protecting.	As I told EPA in my testimony, "Families are looking to EPA to solve the coal ash problem — not abandon them.	Everyone deserves clean water free from toxic coal ash, and the profits of utility executives should never be held in higher regard than the health of local communities.. After nearly a year in his position, Pruitt has seemed more concerned with pushing the agenda of wealthy coal executives rather than doing his job to protect the environment and the health of the people who are suffering from the pollution created by coal plants.	One small town Alabama mayor summed up the thoughts of everyone in the room when he faced EPA representatives a simply said, "What are you doing?	Just two days earlier, people from across the US came to Washington to testify at EPA's lone public hearing on Pruitt's proposed rollbacks of protections from toxic coal ash.		Scott Pruitt Continues His Favors for Big Polluters and Puts Our Families at Risk Some of the regular Americans who are paying the price for Scott Pruitt's leadership were in Washington, DC this week, and I had the honor of spending the day with them and hearing their stories. As we all know, Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt headed to Capitol Hill Thursday, where he was grilled by members of Congress on his many ethical scandals that have been making headlines for weeks. Just two days earlier, people from across the US came to Washington to testify at EPA's lone public hearing on Pruitt's proposed rollbacks of protections from toxic coal ash. Their stories of coal ash contamination were heartbreaking - a North Carolina town where neighbors keep getting sick, a community on the Navajo Nation where people drive 15 miles to haul water for livestock. The EPA had finally put very modest coal ash safeguards in place for these communities in 2015, and now Scott Pruitt is trying to take them away. As I told EPA in my testimony, "Families are looking to EPA to solve the coal ash problem — not abandon them. If you don't defend these standards, the Sierra Club and our allies will." One small town Alabama mayor summed up the thoughts of everyone in the room when he faced EPA representatives a simply said, "What are you doing? Have you lost your mind?"Pruitt's maneuver to weaken coal ash standards has sparked grassroots outrage from red states and blue states. He is handing out yet another favor to the corporate polluters who've been and marching orders since he took over the EPA. Pruitt is weakening the protections so that millionaire utility executives don't have to pay for affordable, common-sense fixes to America's mounting coal ash problem. As I heard from scientists and the many families affected who spoke at the hearing earlier this week, coal ash is the primary solid waste product of coal-fired power plants and it contains some of the most dangerous toxic chemicals on earth, like arsenic, lead, mercury, and chromium. The toxins raise the risk for cancer, heart disease, and stroke, and can inflict permanent brain damage on children. It's estimated that 1.5 million children live near the coal ash storage sites, which are only getting larger with each ton of coal burned. In places like and on the , we've seen the tragedies that coal ash spills and leaks can cause by devastating communities, contaminating water, and sending people to the hospital. In 2015, after years of scientific research and public comments , the EPA finalized a set of basic clean water protections from coal ash that were cheap and easy for utilities to implement. These standards required coal-plant owners to do things like line new coal ash dump sites with strong, waterproof materials to make sure the dangerous contents of coal ash did not leach into soil and contaminate groundwater. They also provided local communities with online tools to monitor their groundwater to make sure that toxic heavy metals from nearby coal ash waste sites were not contaminating the water they used for farming, drinking, and cooking. In a cruel irony, Pruitt announced these rollbacks the day after EPA reporting under the new standard revealed dangerous coal ash pollution in more than 70 sites around the country. Everyone deserves clean water free from toxic coal ash, and the profits of utility executives should never be held in higher regard than the health of local communities.. After nearly a year in his position, Pruitt has seemed more concerned with pushing the agenda of wealthy coal executives rather than doing his job to protect the environment and the health of the people who are suffering from the pollution created by coal plants. Nothing better illustrates this than the sweetheart deal Pruitt received from the wife of a dirty energy lobbyist who had business before the EPA . For a mere $50 a night, he stayed in a plush, multi-million dollar condo near the United States Capitol. By day, Pruitt was touting his rollback efforts to make it easier for energy companies and utilities to save money by polluting, and by night, he slept peacefully in a bed owned by someone who energy companies and utilities hire to do their bidding on Capitol Hill. As each day goes by and we find out more about Pruitt's conflicts of interests and revelations about his failed judgement , however, it's important to remember that his failures have real world impacts on the health of the people he is supposed to be protecting. Real families will be hurt because of his decision to roll back the clean water protections against coal ash, people who can't offer him sweetheart deals on luxury housing. TAKE ACTION: Stop the repeal of coal ash safeguards!	True
161	thehill	left_center_bias	2019-08-26	"I'm an environmentalist.	Because that wealth allows us to take care of people."	"I want clean air.	And that's what we're getting."	At the same time, it's very important to me ... we have to maintain this incredible place that we've all built," Trump continued.	A lot of people don't understand that," Trump said, citing his experience filing environmental impact statements for real estate developments. <sep> 	Trump says he's 'an environmentalist' after skipping G-7 climate meeting President Trump Donald John TrumpJoe Kennedy says he's considering Senate run Biden tells supporters after flub: 'I'm not going nuts' Seoul's relations with Pyongyang and Tokyo need a jolt of reality MORE on Monday touted his environmentalist credentials hours after skipping a Group of Seven (G-7) summit meeting focused on climate, oceans and biodiversity. At a closing press conference before departing the summit, Trump was asked whether he still harbors skepticism about climate change. He did not directly answer, saying he is an "environmentalist" but that he is unwilling to sacrifice the country's economic success to protect the environment."I'm an environmentalist. A lot of people don't understand that," Trump said, citing his experience filing environmental impact statements for real estate developments."I think I know more about the environment than most people," he added. "I want clean air. I want clean water. I want a wealthy country. I want a spectacular country with jobs, with pensions, with so many things. And that's what we're getting." At the same time, it's very important to me ... we have to maintain this incredible place that we've all built," Trump continued. The U.S. has "become a much richer country. And that's a good thing, not a bad thing. Because that wealth allows us to take care of people." Earlier Monday, the president skipped a G-7 session focused on climate and sent another administration official in his place. The heads of government of the other six nations that comprise the G-7 were there. During the climate meeting, leaders approved a $20 million aid package to help Brazil and other South American countries address fires engulfing the Amazon rainforest, French President Emmanuel Macron Emmanuel Jean-Michel MacronTrump says he's 'an environmentalist' after skipping G-7 climate meeting Trump says he'd meet with Iranians under 'right' circumstances Macron: US, France reached 'very good agreement' on digital tax MORE said. Trump has in the past characterized climate change as a hoax, mocked the idea of global warming by citing winter storms and cast doubt on government reports warning about how the changing environment might adversely affect the economy. His administration has rolled back a number of environmental protections enacted by the Obama administration, and Trump announced shortly after taking office that he would withdraw from the Paris climate agreement that seeks to combat global emissions. The president on Monday cited the expansion of energy exports under his administration and the opening of drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as ways he has made the country more prosperous."I'm not going to lose that wealth," he said. "I'm not going to lose that on dreams. On windmills."	False
338	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-07-19	However, not every ecologically minded group is on board with Icebreaker, the name of the project.	org.	They submitted their concerns to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of Energy.A second public hearing about Icebreaker will take place Thursday at Cleveland City Council.	"But the planned expansion of offshore wind energy to over 1,000 turbines will have even more major impacts to birds that breed and migrate across Lake Erie, and that must be addressed."	Supporters point out the project would create more than 500 jobs and pump millions into the local economy over the turbines' 25-year lifespan.		Enviros Come Out Against Offshore Wind Turbine In Lake Erie Conservation groups are protesting efforts to build a small offshore wind farm off the coast of Lake Erie, arguing that the project poses a grave risk to the local bird population.A local energy company wants to construct a six-turbine, 20.7 megawatt offshore wind development eight miles from Cleveland in Lake Erie. If completed, it would be the first freshwater offshore wind farm on the continent. Supporters point out the project would create more than 500 jobs and pump millions into the local economy over the turbines' 25-year lifespan. Lake Erie Energy Development Corporation, the company behind the project, also argues it would be a step forward for environmentally friendly energy production. However, not every ecologically minded group is on board with Icebreaker, the name of the project. The Black Swamp Bird Observatory and the American Bird Conservancy — two different bird conservation groups — are opposed to the proposal, claiming the turbines would harm the local bird population and that major errors were made during an environmental assessment. (RELATED: Disposal Of Wind Turbines Proving To Be A Major Environmental Concern)"We reject the [environmental assessment's] claim that this wind energy facility would have 'little to no impact'" on birds, Kimberly Kaufman, Black Swamp Bird Observatory's executive director, said in a statement." he six-turbine Icebreaker project poses a larger threat to wildlife than is now indicated in the documents," Kaufman continued. "But the planned expansion of offshore wind energy to over 1,000 turbines will have even more major impacts to birds that breed and migrate across Lake Erie, and that must be addressed." The bird conservancy groups point out that "vast numbers" of migratory birds and bats have been recorded just a few miles from the Great Lakes shorelines, with many flying at the same level of the rotor-swept area of windmills. They submitted their concerns to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of Energy.A second public hearing about Icebreaker will take place Thursday at Cleveland City Council. This is far from the first time bird advocates have lamented over wind turbines. Wind farms across the globe kill thousands of birds a year that inadvertently fly into their turbines. Offshore wind farms, while also posing a threat to birds, can also harm the local aquatic ecosystem. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
582	Drudge Report	right_bias	2017-09-17	Such research requires a faithful reproduction of events and predictions of the future constrained by subjective choices within computer models.	These plans should be built on sound science, not speculation, overselling or exaggeration.	MAUE: 'Climate Change' Hype Doesn't Help... As soon as Hurricanes Harvey and Irma made landfall in the U.S., scientists, politicians and journalists began to discuss the role of climate change in natural disasters.	As a meteorologist with access to the best weather-forecast model data available, I watched each hurricane's landfall with particular interest.	The nascent field of "attribution science" attempts to explain how climate change may affect characteristics of a given hurricane using models in "what if" mode.		MAUE: 'Climate Change' Hype Doesn't Help... As soon as Hurricanes Harvey and Irma made landfall in the U.S., scientists, politicians and journalists began to discuss the role of climate change in natural disasters. Although a clear scientific consensus has emerged over the past decade that climate change influences hurricanes in the long run, its effect upon any individual storm is unclear. Anyone trying to score political points after a natural disaster should take a deep breath and review the science first. As a meteorologist with access to the best weather-forecast model data available, I watched each hurricane's landfall with particular interest. Harvey and Irma broke the record 12-year major hurricane landfall drought on the U.S. coastline. Since Wilma in October 2005, 31 major hurricanes had swirled in the North Atlantic but all failed to reach the U.S. with a Category 3 or higher intensity. Even as we worked to divine exactly where the hurricanes would land, a media narrative began to form linking the devastating storms to climate change. Some found it ironic that states represented by "climate deniers" were being pummeled by hurricanes. Alarmists reveled in the irony that Houston, home to petrochemical plants, was flooded by Harvey, while others gleefully reported that President Trump's Mar-a-Lago might be inundated by Irma. How to put these two hurricanes into proper context? An informative website from the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory, part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, synthesizes reams of research literature on the links between hurricanes and global warming. Over the next century, climate models generally indicate fewer but stronger storms—between 2% and 11% greater average storm intensity—with substantially increased rain rates. Against the background of slow sea-level rise, explosive coastal population growth will overwhelmingly exacerbate any hurricane's damages. In the aggregate, the global-warming signal may just now be emerging out of our noisy observational records, and we may not know certainly for several decades. These conclusions are hardly controversial in the climate-science community. My own research, cited in a recent Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report, found that during the past half-century tropical storms and hurricanes have not shown an upward trend in frequency or accumulated energy. Instead they remain naturally variable from year-to-year. The global prevalence of the most intense storms (Category 4 and 5) has not shown a significant upward trend either. Historical observations of extreme cyclones in the 1980s, especially in the Southern Hemisphere, are in sore need of reanalysis. By focusing on whether climate change caused a hurricane, journalists fail to appreciate the complexity of extreme weather events. While most details are still hazy with the best climate modeling tools, the bigger issue than global warming is that more people are choosing to live in coastal areas, where hurricanes certainly will be most destructive. The nascent field of "attribution science" attempts to explain how climate change may affect characteristics of a given hurricane using models in "what if" mode. Such research requires a faithful reproduction of events and predictions of the future constrained by subjective choices within computer models. This research also takes time—which means other scientists must examine the evidence with patience and judiciousness not usually seen on Twitter or cable news. Still, the scientific community already knows plenty about hurricanes and climate change—knowledge it has accumulated over two decades through peer-reviewed research, academic conferences and voluminous national and international assessments. Yet climate scientists all too often speculate during interviews rather than refer to IPCC reports or their cousins from the U.S. National Climate Assessment. Some climate scientists have peddled tenuous theories with no contemporaneous research evidence. Advocacy groups package these talking points for easy consumption by journalists, who eagerly repeat them. The historical record books contain dozens of devastating hurricane landfalls over the past century, any of which, if repeated, would be catastrophic regardless of additional climate-change effects. To prepare for the next hurricane, the U.S. needs the best weather forecasts, evacuation plans and leadership. These plans should be built on sound science, not speculation, overselling or exaggeration. Hurricane science in this political climate already has enough spin. Mr. Maue, a research meteorologist, is an adjunct scholar at the Cato Institute.	False
375	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-08-06	California Gov.	He's likely referring to the diverting of water from the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta into the ocean to protect the delta smelt, an endangered fish.	What's not a clear link to wildfires, however, is Trump's referral to California water supplies being diverted into the ocean.	Jerry Brown, a Democrat, blamed man-made global warming for the state's rash of intense fires in the last couple of years, however, wildfire experts and conservatives tend to blame poor land management policies coupled with the expansion of human development into fire-prone areas.	Trump said at a rally in Fresno that year.		Trump Says 'Bad Environmental Laws' Made Deadly California Wildfires Even Worse President Donald Trump blamed "bad environmental laws" for making wildfires spreading across California "much worse," in a Sunday tweet. Trump wrote these laws "aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized," which is instead "being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire spreading!"Persistent heat, dry condition and winds have fueled several major wildfires across California, the biggest of which is the Carr Fire that's scorched more than 140,000 acres and killed seven people. (RELATED: NYT Claims 'Global Greening' From CO2 Is 'Terrible,' Gets Owned)State officials said the Carr Fire was sparked in late July by a flat tire on a trailer scraping against the asphalt on a road near Redding, California. California Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat, blamed man-made global warming for the state's rash of intense fires in the last couple of years, however, wildfire experts and conservatives tend to blame poor land management policies coupled with the expansion of human development into fire-prone areas. That's likely what Trump is referring to when he tweeted "[m]ust also tree clear to stop fire spreading!" Thinning of trees and removing of dead vegetation and brush can help mitigate wildfires. What's not a clear link to wildfires, however, is Trump's referral to California water supplies being diverted into the ocean. He's likely referring to the diverting of water from the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta into the ocean to protect the delta smelt, an endangered fish. Republicans and farmers have complained about management of the smelt population for years because precious water was being pumped out to sea instead of going towards other uses, including agriculture. Those concerns were magnified during the recent multi-year drought, and recent population surveys show fresh water diversion has not been enough to keep smelt populations from declining. However, it's unclear how diverting water into the Pacific Ocean affects wildfires in California. Trump also lambasted policies forcing river water to be diverted during the 2016 campaign." s there a drought?" Trump said at a rally in Fresno that year. "No, we have plenty of water," adding "[w]e shove it out to sea." Trump approved disaster declarations for the Carr Fire, making it easier for state and federal officials to share resources and coordinate a response.	False
882	RT	questionable_source	2017-08-23	That] has all kind of consequences both locally for this region, for the animals and the people who live here, as well as globally," Max Holmes, a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska, told the New York Times.	As global temperatures rise, scientists are trying to determine the likely speed and scale of the melting of Alaska's permafrost.	inus 3 is not that far from zero," Dr. Romanovsky told the New York Times.	He estimates that if emissions and warming continue at the same rate, near-surface temperatures will rise above freezing around the middle of the century.	n order to know how much is lost, you have to know how much is there," Sue Natali, a Woods Hole scientist and permafrost expert told the New York Times.		Alaska's thawing permafrost could be gone in decades – study The permafrost that covers great swaths of Siberia, northern Canada, Alaska and Greenland is warming twice as fast as other parts of the planet and could be gone by midcentury, causing more warming and releasing gigatonnes of carbon dioxide and methane." That] has all kind of consequences both locally for this region, for the animals and the people who live here, as well as globally," Max Holmes, a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska, told the New York Times. As global temperatures rise, scientists are trying to determine the likely speed and scale of the melting of Alaska's permafrost. In geology, permafrost is a thick subsurface layer of soil that remains frozen throughout the year. Located in high latitudes, it covers about 24 percent of the land surface in the northern hemisphere, and can be up to 1km thick. Some of the permafrost dates back to the last Ice Age. Most of this area is found in Siberia, northern Canada, Alaska and Greenland. Permafrost is thought to contain about twice as much carbon dioxide and methane as is currently in the atmosphere. When permafrost melts, microbes convert carbon to carbon dioxide, causing even more warming. Scientists estimate the thawing could contribute as much as 1.7F (1C) to global warming over the next several centuries, regardless of what nations do to reduce emissions from burning fossil fuels and other activities. Holmes led a team of scientists in July to take permafrost cores, sediment and water samples from the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge to better understand how thawing permafrost affects the landscape, and how much and what mix of greenhouse gases are released." n order to know how much is lost, you have to know how much is there," Sue Natali, a Woods Hole scientist and permafrost expert told the New York Times. Vladimir Romanovsky, a permafrost researcher with the University of Alaska, Fairbanks said the temperatures at a depth of 65ft have risen to 5.5F (-3C) over decades." inus 3 is not that far from zero," Dr. Romanovsky told the New York Times. He estimates that if emissions and warming continue at the same rate, near-surface temperatures will rise above freezing around the middle of the century. In 2013, the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) projected that temperature increases in Alaska and northern Russia could reduce permafrost by between 37 and 87 percent by the end of this century. If that occurs, it could potentially leak 1,700 gigatonnes of carbon and methane – twice what is already in the atmosphere.A global temperature rise of 2.7F (1.5C) above current levels would be enough to start the thawing of the permafrost in Siberia, according to scientists from the earth sciences depart at Oxford University in a report published in Science Express in 2016.	False
425	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-10-10	"That's the main thing about getting to (the emmissions goal) is just how aggressively we have to act in every different sector of our society."	They've said the same thing before," Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) said, adding that his responsibility was to "balance those interests raised in that report with (his state's) broader economic and security interests."	), a climate change skeptic, said of the actions urged by the report.	t hasn't been on my finance agenda or banking agenda," Scott said, referring to the Senate committees he serves on and the issues on which he focuses his attention.	"That's the problem with the U.N., that they come up with these policy ideas that are just 'La La Land.		A Dire U.N. Report Warns Of Ruinous Global Warming. Republicans Say It's 'Fantasy.' WASHINGTON ― The Republican response to an alarming new United Nations report on looming catastrophes caused by global warming suggests that little, if anything, will be done by the U.S. in the near future to address the threat of rising oceans, worsening droughts and raging wildfires." hey might as well be calling on me to sprout wings and fly to Canada for the summer," Sen. Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), a climate change skeptic, said of the actions urged by the report. Issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the report found that the world is rapidly running out of time to scale back carbon emissions to keep planetary warming within 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) above pre-industrial levels. If the flow of greenhouse gases continues to stream into the atmosphere at the current rate, the IPCC determined, the global mean temperature will likely rise to the 1.5-degree mark sometime between 2030 and 2052. Such a rise in global mean temperatures within that time frame would mean calamitous flooding of small islands and major coastal metropolises like New York City, the report said. Warming beyond that level, to 2 degrees and over, would significantly exacerbate such disasters. The report's authors projected that staying at or below 1.5 degrees Celsius will require slashing the world's greenhouse gas emissions by 45 percent from 2010 levels by 2030 ― and reaching net zero carbon emissions by 2050 ― targets that many GOP lawmakers brushed off as infeasible." here's not enough money in the world to pay for that," Kennedy said. "That's the problem with the U.N., that they come up with these policy ideas that are just 'La La Land.'""How is that new? They've said the same thing before," Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) said, adding that his responsibility was to "balance those interests raised in that report with (his state's) broader economic and security interests." t hasn't been on my finance agenda or banking agenda," Scott said, referring to the Senate committees he serves on and the issues on which he focuses his attention. The IPCC recommended several steps needed to reverse carbon dioxide emissions, including replacing the use of fossil fuels with renewable energy such as wind and solar, as well as growing more forests, which naturally recycles CO2. It also said that employing new technologies to suck carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere will be necessary to achieve the emissions target." e should be doing everything we can," said Natalie Mahowald, a climate scientist at Cornell University and lead author of the report's first chapter. "That's the main thing about getting to (the emmissions goal) is just how aggressively we have to act in every different sector of our society." Only one GOP senator approached by HuffPost signaled an openness to delving into the report: Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.). As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, he said he was looking at the "possibility" of holding a hearing on the matter. The Senate GOP majority, likely to remain in effect after November's elections, is dominated by lawmakers skeptical of human-caused climate change, such as Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.). He once threw a snowball on the Senate floor in an attempt to prove that global warming is nothing more than a hoax. Coming from a top oil-producing state, Inhofe has long railed against the IPCC as a biased, left-wing organization. On Wednesday, he claimed that the panel, recognized by others as the world's leading authority on climate change, had been "totally discredited" and dismissed its latest findings.	False
650	Drudge Report	right_bias	2017-08-14	That is something we need to determine as quickly as possible."	t is something we will have to watch closely," Bingham said.	"We had not expected to find anything like that number.	e were amazed," Bingham said.	The results were then compared with satellite and database records and geological information from other aerial surveys.		Scientists discover 91 volcanoes below Antarctic ice sheet... Scientists have uncovered the largest volcanic region on Earth – two kilometres below the surface of the vast ice sheet that covers west Antarctica. The project, by Edinburgh University researchers, has revealed almost 100 volcanoes – with the highest as tall as the Eiger, which stands at almost 4,000 metres in Switzerland. Geologists say this huge region is likely to dwarf that of east Africa's volcanic ridge, currently rated the densest concentration of volcanoes in the world. And the activity of this range could have worrying consequences, they have warned. "If one of these volcanoes were to erupt it could further destabilise west Antarctica's ice sheets," said glacier expert Robert Bingham, one of the paper's authors. "Anything that causes the melting of ice – which an eruption certainly would – is likely to speed up the flow of ice into the sea." he big question is: how active are these volcanoes? That is something we need to determine as quickly as possible." The Edinburgh volcano survey, reported in the Geological Society's special publications series, involved studying the underside of the west Antarctica ice sheet for hidden peaks of basalt rock similar to those produced by the region's other volcanoes. Their tips actually lie above the ice and have been spotted by polar explorers over the past century. But how many lie below the ice? This question was originally asked by the team's youngest member, Max Van Wyk de Vries, an undergraduate at the university's school of geosciences and a self-confessed volcano fanatic. He set up the project with the help of Bingham. Their study involved analysing measurements made by previous surveys, which involved the use of ice-penetrating radar, carried either by planes or land vehicles, to survey strips of the west Antarctic ice. The results were then compared with satellite and database records and geological information from other aerial surveys. "Essentially, we were looking for evidence of volcanic cones sticking up into the ice," Bingham said. After the team had collated the results, it reported a staggering 91 previously unknown volcanoes, adding to the 47 others that had been discovered over the previous century of exploring the region. These newly discovered volcanoes range in height from 100 to 3,850 metres. All are covered in ice, which sometimes lies in layers that are more than 4km thick in the region. These active peaks are concentrated in a region known as the west Antarctic rift system, which stretches 3,500km from Antarctica's Ross ice shelf to the Antarctic peninsula." e were amazed," Bingham said. "We had not expected to find anything like that number. We have almost trebled the number of volcanoes known to exist in west Antarctica. We also suspect there are even more on the bed of the sea that lies under the Ross ice shelf, so that I think it is very likely this region will turn out to be the densest region of volcanoes in the world, greater even than east Africa, where mounts Nyiragongo, Kilimanjaro, Longonot and all the other active volcanoes are concentrated." The discovery is particularly important because the activity of these volcanoes could have crucial implications for the rest of the planet. If one erupts, it could further destabilise some of the region's ice sheets, which have already been affected by global warming. Meltwater outflows into the Antarctic ocean could trigger sea level rises. "We just don't know about how active these volcanoes have been in the past," Bingham said. However, he pointed to one alarming trend: "The most volcanism that is going in the world at present is in regions that have only recently lost their glacier covering – after the end of the last ice age. These places include Iceland and Alaska." heory suggests that this is occurring because, without ice sheets on top of them, there is a release of pressure on the regions' volcanoes and they become more active." And this could happen in west Antarctica, where significant warming in the region caused by climate change has begun to affect its ice sheets. If they are reduced significantly, this could release pressure on the volcanoes that lie below and lead to eruptions that could further destabilise the ice sheets and enhance sea level rises that are already affecting our oceans." t is something we will have to watch closely," Bingham said.	False
430	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-11-13	twitter.	pic.	"We can embrace the energy of activism to move our party's goals forward."	com/mw6dKSxPVj — 350 dot org (@350) November 13, 2018Members of the Sunrise Movement, responding to Pelosi's support in their own statement on Twitter, said they welcomed her endorsement but added that "words aren't enough."	"We welcome the presence of these activists, and we strongly urge the Capitol Police to allow them to continue to organize and participate in our democracy."		Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Attends Climate Change Protest During Orientation The progressive Democratic newcomer from New York joined more than 100 environmental youth activists on Tuesday for a sit-in inside House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi's Capitol Hill office to encourage a deal to transition to a 100 percent renewable energy-based economy to fight climate change. The demonstration took place the same day that new members of Congress, including Ocasio-Cortez, arrived for orientation." hey asked me to join them, and I did," Ocasio-Cortez tweeted of her involvement with members of the Sunrise Movement and Justice Democrats who visited several elected officials' offices in the building. "We can embrace the energy of activism to move our party's goals forward." Pelosi's office, in a statement shared by Ocasio-Cortez on Twitter, expressed support for the activists and said that she has recommended reinstating the Select Committee on Climate Change, a special climate change committee that was dissolved by Republicans in 2011." ouse Democrats ran on and won on our bold campaign for a $1 trillion investment in our infrastructure that will make our communities more resilient to the climate crisis, while creating 16 million new good-paying jobs across the country," Pelosi's statement read. "We welcome the presence of these activists, and we strongly urge the Capitol Police to allow them to continue to organize and participate in our democracy." California is burning. Fossil fuel billionaires have a grip on America's democracy. We're running out of time to act. But we're going to win. We'll pass a #GreenNewDeal & win the solutions we need. We'll win because we have a movement behind us. And together, we're unstoppable. pic. twitter. com/mw6dKSxPVj — 350 dot org (@350) November 13, 2018Members of the Sunrise Movement, responding to Pelosi's support in their own statement on Twitter, said they welcomed her endorsement but added that "words aren't enough." The group urged her to "step aside" if she is unable to mandate such a plan. Ocasio-Cortez added that she supports Pelosi reinstating the Select Committee and highlighted the activists' requests that the committee draft a Green New Deal calling for 100 percent renewable energy and a commitment from the committee's appointed members that they won't accept funding from the fossil fuel industry.	False
667	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-08-29	It sends a price signal to industries to reduce their carbon pollution, while generating billions of dollars in revenue for investments in clean transportation and direct pollution reduction.	In fact, the challenge before us is a case study in market failures ― to suggest that market-based policies on their own will solve this existential challenge is naïve, at best.	We need all of these tools to be able to reduce pollution, drive technological innovation, create jobs and expand economic growth, all while keeping costs stable for consumers and businesses.	Most importantly, policies that directly reduce pollution are our most effective tools to improve public health and quality of life in the most disproportionately impacted communities.	Taken together, they provide a comprehensive platform for clean energy and climate policy that can serve as a golden standard and a beacon of hope for the rest of the planet until common sense returns to the White House.		California's Multi-Front Fight On Climate California continues to pass the most ambitious laws in the world to expand clean energy and combat climate change. This summer, in the midst of unprecedented chaos and dysfunction in Washington, California lawmakers stepped up with a bipartisan solution to one of the most pressing challenges facing our state, this nation, and the world. Cap and trade is an important tool in California's climate policy portfolio. It sends a price signal to industries to reduce their carbon pollution, while generating billions of dollars in revenue for investments in clean transportation and direct pollution reduction. However, it's hardly the only weapon in our climate arsenal, and California simply cannot meet our world-leading greenhouse gas reduction goals with cap and trade alone. In fact, the challenge before us is a case study in market failures ― to suggest that market-based policies on their own will solve this existential challenge is naïve, at best. That's why California's comprehensive suite of climate policies, including our mandates to generate clean energy, improve energy efficiency, and reduce vehicle tailpipe emissions, strikes a necessary balance between market-based and direct regulations. As California edges out the United Kingdom to become the fifth largest economy in the world, with the state unemployment rate at historic lows, sound budgeting and a robust social safety net, we've proven that strong climate and clean air policies can go hand-in-hand with economic growth. Thanks to policies mandating clean energy development, California's electric grid is one of the least carbon-intensive in the world. We've turned clean energy into a pillar of our economy that now employs over half a million Californians ― ten times the number of Americans employed in the coal industry. Clean, renewable energy is also now cheaper than fossil fuels on a straight dollar-for-dollar basis in many parts of America. That's why "red" states like Texas, Oklahoma, and Iowa are quietly spending more on zero-carbon wind energy than ever before. Clean energy isn't just good for the planet; it's good for consumers' monthly utility bills and for the economy. Setting a target of 100 percent clean, renewable energy, as my Senate Bill 100 will do if signed into law, means that California will continue to be the world's clean energy superpower. Other policies promoting energy and fuel efficiency are also major tools driving both innovation and pollution reductions. Our decades-long commitment to energy efficiency, which began with Jerry Brown's first stint as Governor, has not only kept our state's electricity consumption flat despite a steadily rising population, it has kept Californians' energy-spending among the lowest in the nation. These programs create local jobs, incentivize massive private-sector investment, and are a big reason why California remains America's capital of innovation. Most importantly, policies that directly reduce pollution are our most effective tools to improve public health and quality of life in the most disproportionately impacted communities. California is home to six of the ten most polluted cities in America for ozone and particle pollution, according to the American Lung Association. The families sick from breathing dirty air surely would not consider California's air quality regulations "superfluous". We need all of these tools to be able to reduce pollution, drive technological innovation, create jobs and expand economic growth, all while keeping costs stable for consumers and businesses. Taken together, they provide a comprehensive platform for clean energy and climate policy that can serve as a golden standard and a beacon of hope for the rest of the planet until common sense returns to the White House.	True
125	politicususa	left_bias	2019-05-14	It's the speed.	The rate of global warming, if it was even detectable at this scale with about .1 degrees celsius every thousand or maybe even every 10,000 years.	This would be dT, dt where capital "T," is temperature and, and the lower case is time, or congressman's staff if out there, that's the problem.	The temperature is rising quickly.	It's a fact.		Bill Nye Lights Up GOP Congressman Who Pretends Not To Understand Climate Change Bill Nye took on Republican Rep. Thomas Massey who claims to be an electrical engineer, but he doesn't understand climate change. And the guy that I saw the other day, if I may take a moment — was congressman Thomas Massey from Kentucky, and he is an electrical engineer. He says on his website he claims to be an inventor and he acted as though he cannot grasp this he focused on the idea that 800,000 years ago there was a higher level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere than there is today, and how do we know that? By looking at the ice cores or the ancient atmospheres in the ancient ice. I presume you don't watch MSNBC…A member of his staff might. That's what I'm hoping for. I'm hoping for. So congressman or the congressman's staff, here's the hockey stick graph that you guys love to go off that's been debunked. No, it hasn't been debunked. It's a fact. If you're really an electrical engineer, here's the problem. The rate of global warming, if it was even detectable at this scale with about .1 degrees celsius every thousand or maybe even every 10,000 years. Now it's that .1 degree Celsius every decade. So congressman, it's like this in calculus terms. The rate of temperature getting bigger is very high. This would be dT, dt where capital "T," is temperature and, and the lower case is time, or congressman's staff if out there, that's the problem. This looks like an exaggerated hockey stick because it is. It's the speed. The Trump administration recently called a science a "Democrat thing," so no one should expect the Republican Party to get won over into believing facts again, but Bill Nye laid it all out nice and easy. The temperature is rising quickly. It is a race against time, and the longer that Republicans deny and delay, the worse it will be for our planet, our people, and our future. For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	False
810	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-08-07	In contrast to these newly contentious climate terms, Moebius-Clune wrote that references to economic growth, emerging business opportunities in the rural US, agro-tourism and "improved aesthetics" should be "tolerated if not appreciated by all".	Namely, that priority is climate change.	Instead of "climate change adaption", staff are asked to use "resilience to weather extremes".	Some staff weren't enamored with the new regime, with one employee stating on an email on 5 July that "we would prefer to keep the language as is" and stressing the need to maintain the "scientific integrity of the work".	The primary cause of human-driven climate change is also targeted, with the term "reduce greenhouse gases" blacklisted in favor of "build soil organic matter, increase nutrient use efficiency".	On 16 February, a staffer named Tim Hafner write to Bramblett: "I would like to know correct terms I should use instead of climate changes and anything to do with carbon ... <sep> Please visit with your staff and make them aware of this shift in perspective within the executive branch." <sep> Other emails show the often agonized discussions between staff unsure of what is forbidden. <sep> A colleague advises that the issue be determined in a phone call. <sep> "Climate change" is in the "avoid" category, to be replaced by "weather extremes". <sep> 	US federal department is censoring use of term 'climate change', emails reveal Staff at the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) have been told to avoid using the term climate change in their work, with the officials instructed to reference "weather extremes" instead.A series of emails obtained by the Guardian between staff at the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), a USDA unit that oversees farmers' land conservation, show that the incoming Trump administration has had a stark impact on the language used by some federal employees around climate change.A missive from Bianca Moebius-Clune, director of soil health, lists terms that should be avoided by staff and those that should replace them. "Climate change" is in the "avoid" category, to be replaced by "weather extremes". Instead of "climate change adaption", staff are asked to use "resilience to weather extremes". The primary cause of human-driven climate change is also targeted, with the term "reduce greenhouse gases" blacklisted in favor of "build soil organic matter, increase nutrient use efficiency". Meanwhile, "sequester carbon" is ruled out and replaced by "build soil organic matter". In her email to staff, dated 16 February this year, Moebius-Clune said the new language was given to her staff and suggests it be passed on. She writes that "we won't change the modeling, just how we talk about it – there are a lot of benefits to putting carbon back in the sail [sic], climate mitigation is just one of them", and that a colleague from USDA's public affairs team gave advice to "tamp down on discretionary messaging right now". In contrast to these newly contentious climate terms, Moebius-Clune wrote that references to economic growth, emerging business opportunities in the rural US, agro-tourism and "improved aesthetics" should be "tolerated if not appreciated by all". In a separate email to senior employees on 24 January, just days after Trump's inauguration, Jimmy Bramblett, deputy chief for programs at the NRCS, said: "It has become clear one of the previous administration's priority is not consistent with that of the incoming administration. Namely, that priority is climate change. Please visit with your staff and make them aware of this shift in perspective within the executive branch." Bramblett added that "prudence" should be used when discussing greenhouse gases and said the agency's work on air quality regarding these gases could be discontinued. Other emails show the often agonized discussions between staff unsure of what is forbidden. On 16 February, a staffer named Tim Hafner write to Bramblett: "I would like to know correct terms I should use instead of climate changes and anything to do with carbon ... I want to ensure to incorporate correct terminology that the agency has approved to use." On 5 April, Suzanne Baker, a New York-based NRCS employee, emailed a query as to whether staff are "allowed to publish work from outside the USDA that use 'climate change'". A colleague advises that the issue be determined in a phone call. Some staff weren't enamored with the new regime, with one employee stating on an email on 5 July that "we would prefer to keep the language as is" and stressing the need to maintain the "scientific integrity of the work". In a statement, USDA said that on 23 January it had issued "interim operating procedures outlining procedures to ensure the new policy team has an opportunity to review policy-related statements, legislation, budgets and regulations prior to issuance". The statement added: "This guidance, similar to procedures issued by previous administrations, was misinterpreted by some to cover data and scientific publications. This was never the case and USDA interim procedures will allow complete, objective information for the new policy staff reviewing policy decisions." Kaveh Sadeghzadeh of the Natural Resources Conservation Service added that his organisation "has not received direction from USDA or the administration to modify its communications on climate change or any other topic". Trump has repeatedly questioned the veracity of climate change research, infamously suggesting that it is part of an elaborate Chinese hoax. The president has started the process of withdrawing the US from the Paris climate agreement, has instructed the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to scrap or amend various regulations aimed at cutting greenhouse gases, and has moved to open up more public land and waters to fossil fuel activity. The nomenclature of the federal government has also shifted as these new priorities have taken hold. Mentions of the dangers of climate change have been removed from the websites of the White House and the Department of the Interior, while the EPA scrapped its entire online climate section in April pending a review that will be "updating language to reflect the approach of new leadership"." hese records reveal Trump's active censorship of science in the name of his political agenda," said Meg Townsend, open government attorney at the Center for Biological Diversity." o think that federal agency staff who report about the air, water and soil that sustains the health of our nation must conform their reporting with the Trump administration's anti-science rhetoric is appalling and dangerous for America and the greater global community." The Center for Biological Diversity is currently suing several government agencies, including the EPA and state department, to force them to release information on the "censoring" of climate change verbiage. While some of the changes to government websites may have occurred anyway, the emails from within the USDA are the clearest indication yet that staff have been instructed to steer clear of acknowledging climate change or its myriad consequences. US agriculture is a major source of heat-trapping gases, with 15% of the country's emissions deriving from farming practices. A USDA plan to address the "far reaching" impacts of climate change is still online. However, Sam Clovis, Trump's nomination to be the USDA's chief scientist, has labeled climate research "junk science". Last week it was revealed that Clovis, who is not a scientist, once ran a blog where he called progressives "race traders and race 'traitors'" and likened Barack Obama to a "communist".	False
686	Politicus USA	left_bias	2017-10-16	In his Spanish-language address to the U.N. agency, Francis denounced "negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems, the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet, and the greed for profit."	Ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the "prerequisites" for dealing with world food security, Francis also said."	Agriculture ministers and diplomats from the Group of Seven (G7) world power nations attended the gathering, which marked FAO's World Food Day."	hanks to scientific knowledge, we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods, such as the Paris Accord, which sadly, some have abandoned," he said.	he yoke of poverty caused by the often tragic movement of migrants can be removed by prevention, consisting of development projects that create jobs and offer the capacity to respond to climactic and environmental changes," he said.		Pope implicitly criticizes U.S. for leaving Paris climate accord ROME (Reuters) – Pope Francis implicitly criticized the United States on Monday for pulling out of the Paris agreement on climate change, praising it as a means to control the devastating effects of global warming. The United States is the only country out of 195 signatories to have withdrawn from the accord, which aims to cut emissions blamed for the rise in temperatures.U.S. President Donald Trump announced the decision in June shortly after visiting the pope, a strong supporter of the deal. At the time a Vatican official said the move was a "slap in the face" for the pope and the Vatican." e see consequences of climate change every day," the pope said in an address to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) at its headquarters in Rome." hanks to scientific knowledge, we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods, such as the Paris Accord, which sadly, some have abandoned," he said. Under the deal, United States had committed to reducing its own emissions by 26 to 28 percent, compared with 2005 levels, by 2025. Many world leaders have criticized Trump for deciding to pull out. In his Spanish-language address to the U.N. agency, Francis denounced "negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems, the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet, and the greed for profit." Agriculture ministers and diplomats from the Group of Seven (G7) world power nations attended the gathering, which marked FAO's World Food Day." e can't be satisfied by saying 'someone else will do it,'" the pope said. Ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the "prerequisites" for dealing with world food security, Francis also said." he yoke of poverty caused by the often tragic movement of migrants can be removed by prevention, consisting of development projects that create jobs and offer the capacity to respond to climactic and environmental changes," he said.	False
188	usatoday	left_center_bias	2019-08-28	I'm concerned because it affects their health."	he kids are affected the most.	But for now, more immediate consequences of the raging flames were becoming clear.	But it's not.	"Not just our children."		Amazon fires: Respiratory problems spike, kids affected the most PORTO VELHO, Brazil – Lingering smoke in the Amazon caused concern Tuesday among Brazilians who say that respiratory problems – particularly among children and the elderly – have increased as fires in the region rage." he kids are affected the most. They're coughing a lot," said Elane Diaz, a nurse in the Rondonia state capital of Porto Velho, as she waited for a doctor's appointment at the city's 9 of July hospital with her 5-year-old-son Eduardo. "They have problems breathing. I'm concerned because it affects their health." The number of people treated for respiratory issues increased sharply in recent days at the local Cosme e Damia Children's hospital." his period has been very tough. The dry weather and the smoke causes many problems on children, such as pneumonia, coughing and secretion," Daniel Pires, a pediatrician and the hospital's adjunct-director told the Folha de S. Paulo newspaper. "From Aug. 1 to Aug. 10, the median (number) of cases was about 120 to 130 children with respiratory problems. From Aug. 11 to (Aug. 20) it went up to 280 cases." Amazon fires: What would the Earth be like without the Amazon rainforest?Growing fears over the health impacts are emerging as the number of fires in Brazil surges, with more than 77,000 documented by the country's National Space Research Institute in the last year. About half of the fires occurred in the Amazon region, with most in the past month. But as breathing-related ailments appear to be on the rise, attention to the issue has largely been overshadowed by growing acrimony between Brazil and European countries seeking to help fight Amazon fires and protect a region seen as vital to the health of the planet. At a summit in France this week, G-7 nations pledged to help fight the flames and protect the rainforest by offering $20 million, in addition to a separate $12 million from Britain and $11 million from Canada. But Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, a far-right climate skeptic who took office this year with a promise to boost development in Latin America's biggest economy, questioned whether offers of international aid mask a plot to exploit the Amazon's resources and weaken Brazilian growth. On Tuesday, he said that his French counterpart President Emmanuel Macron had called him a liar and would have to apologize before Brazil considers accepting rainforest aid. Macron has to retract those comments "and then we can speak," Bolsonaro said. In a video message, Brazilian novelist Paulo Coelho offered an apology to France for what he called Bolsonaro's "hysteria," saying the Brazilian government had resorted to insults to dodge responsibility for the Amazon fires. Meanwhile, within Brazil, a number of people said they supported Bolsonaro despite local and international criticism of his handling of the crisis, exposing a divide that has split the country. Grace Quale, a hospital laboratory technician who attended a service at an evangelical church on Sunday, said that critics "want to overthrow our president," and that she didn't see a link between Bolsonaro's environmental policies and the number of people getting treatment for respiratory problems. Mona Lisa Pereira, an agronomist, also said criticism of Brazil's government was skewed." ermany had already been helping through NGOs and they couldn't prevent this," Pereira said. "It seems like this is the fire of a lifetime. But it's not. We have fires every year." Others said in an open letter that the government's discourse and measures are leading to a "collapse in federal environmental management and stimulate environmental crimes inside and outside the Amazon." More than 500 employees from the environmental regulator IBAMA signed the letter and included a list of emergency measures they recommended, including more qualified management and employees, and a greater budget and increased autonomy. The Amazon has experienced an increased rate of fires during drought periods in the last 20 years, but the phenomenon this year is "unusual" because drought has not yet hit, said Laura Schneider of Rutgers University-New Brunswick. Schneider, an associate professor in the geography department, said fire is commonly used by people to clear land for cultivation, and the actual area burned this year must be measured for an accurate comparison with damage in past years. While many of the recorded fires this year were set in already deforested areas by people clearing land for cultivation or pasture, Brazil government figures show that they are much more widespread this year, suggesting the threat to the vast Amazon ecosystem is intensifying. But for now, more immediate consequences of the raging flames were becoming clear. The world's largest rainforest is a major absorber of carbon dioxide, considered a critical defense against rising temperatures and other disruptions caused by climate change. The government in the Amazonian state of Rondonia has warned that the burning of land can produce smoke that can "greatly influence atmospheric pollution, putting the life of many at risk." Experts there said that when exposed to smoke, residents can suffer from rhinitis, sinus and respiratory problems like asthma and bronchitis, while chronic exposure can also lead to pulmonary illnesses, including lung emphysema." e've seen that (Porto Velho) has been taken over by smoke, so inhaling those antigens and pathogens can harm the whole city's population," Ana Carolina Terra Cruz, a specialist in pulmonary illnesses, told the state government website. Deep ramifications: Trump would cost General Motors billions if he actually orders business out of ChinaOn Tuesday, some clouds and a blue sky were partly visible in the Porto Velho morning light. But by the afternoon, haze had again settled, with smoke so thick that it darkened the usually blazing sun. Pereira, the agronomist, said that smoke was "everywhere." It's bad for everyone," she said. "Not just our children."	False
770	BBC	left_center_bias	2017-05-12	We are appreciative that each of you has an important point of view, and you should know that we are taking the time to understand your concerns," he said."	But a couple of things are missing.	The acceptance of the urgent need to reduce greenhouse gases (such as methane and carbon dioxide) and pollutants (like black carbon and aerosols) appears significant.	Although the logic of the statement insists that human activity is causing climate change, the word "human" is not actually present.	An announcement is expected after a trip to Europe later this month.	Climate change was the biggest issue at the biennial meeting of the Arctic Council in Fairbanks, which was overshadowed by the uncertainties over Mr Trump's policy. <sep> 	Arctic summit: Trump to make 'right decision for the US' on climate The US will consider its interests first as it reviews its climate change policy, the secretary of state says. Rex Tillerson told a meeting of the eight Arctic nations in Alaska that the US would not rush to make a decision and would consider their views. President Donald Trump has expressed doubts over the human role in climate change and has said he may pull the US out of the Paris Accord to fight it. Meanwhile, other Arctic countries have called for a cut on greenhouse gases. They signed an agreement which stated there was a need for urgent global action. Climate change was the biggest issue at the biennial meeting of the Arctic Council in Fairbanks, which was overshadowed by the uncertainties over Mr Trump's policy. Mr Tillerson, the former chief executive of Exxon Mobil, told the meeting that the administration was reviewing how it would approach climate change." We are appreciative that each of you has an important point of view, and you should know that we are taking the time to understand your concerns," he said." We're not going to rush to make a decision. We're going to work to make the right decision for the United States." Mr Trump is to decide whether the US will leave or reduce its commitments to the Paris agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which was negotiated by around 200 nations and signed in 2015. An announcement is expected after a trip to Europe later this month. The joint agreement by the Arctic Council mentioned the Paris accord only in a passing reference, which noted the deal's entry into force and implementation. But the text did not recommit its members to meet the pledges made. Some climate scientists here in Alaska say they are pleasantly surprised by the relatively tough language on climate change adopted by all eight Arctic Council nations including the United States. The thrust of the text, argues Prof John Walsh, chief scientist at the University of Alaska's International Arctic Research Center, actually echoes the approach of the Obama administration. The acceptance of the urgent need to reduce greenhouse gases (such as methane and carbon dioxide) and pollutants (like black carbon and aerosols) appears significant. But a couple of things are missing. Although the logic of the statement insists that human activity is causing climate change, the word "human" is not actually present. Nor is there a commitment to implement the landmark Paris accord, an omission which is causing alarm among environmentalists. Not only that, but many of the Trump administration's early policy decisions prioritised economic growth over environmental protection, and Mr Tillerson continues to insist that American climate policy remains under review. So, in short, it is far too early to conclude that the White House has suddenly been persuaded by mainstream scientific opinion on global warming - and with US politics in astonishing flux, the Fairbanks Declaration may be no more than a holding statement.	False
11	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-08-23	'We feel the climate changing and the world needs the forest.	What is being done here is an atrocity against us.	Camila Veiga of the Brazilian Association of NGOs said: 'The fires are the consequence of a policy of environmental devastation, of support for agribusiness, of increasing pastures.	'For us this is destruction.	The smell is of barbecue, caused by vast swathes of the world's largest tropical rainforest going up in flames.		Tribe looks on helplessly as rainforest is destroyed by man and fire... These devastating images show an indigenous family surveying the ruins of their homeland in the Amazon rainforest. Surrounded by dry soil and fallen timber, their native land has been all-but destroyed by rapid deforestation. During the day, the usually-fierce sun is obscured by a thick, grey smoke caused by deliberately-lit wildfires that are raging out of control across Brazil. The smell is of barbecue, caused by vast swathes of the world's largest tropical rainforest going up in flames. Raimundo Mura, indigenous leader with the Mura tribe who live in a reserve near Humaita, Amazonas state said: 'For the forest, I will go on until my last drop of blood.'All the trees had lives, they all needed to live, each in their own place.'For us this is destruction. What is being done here is an atrocity against us.'The rainforest is home to some one million indigenous people and three million species of plants and animals. But it is being decimated at record rates – burnt or cleared for farming and mining. Scientists have recorded more than 74,000 fires in Brazil this year – an 84% increase compared to the same period last year. They can now be seen from space and have plunged the largest city Sao Paulo into darkness because of the heavy smoke. In total, the blazes have created a layer of smoke estimated to be 1.2 million square miles wide that spreads across Latin America to the Atlantic coast. Handech Wakana Mura, another local leader within the forest, said: 'With each passing day we see the destruction advance – deforestation, invasion and logging.'We are sad because the forest is dying at every moment.'We feel the climate changing and the world needs the forest.'We need the forest and our children need the forest.'Environmentalists and academics have blamed the Brazilian government, under far-right President Jair Bolsonaro, for a sharp increase in Amazon deforestation. The climate change sceptic swept to power in January promising to open up the Amazon to mining and farming. His rhetoric is said to have emboldened farmers to burn large sections of the rainforest for beef and soy production. Camila Veiga of the Brazilian Association of NGOs said: 'The fires are the consequence of a policy of environmental devastation, of support for agribusiness, of increasing pastures.'The fires have been raging for around three weeks and an area the size of a football pitch is said to be lost every minute. Global concern is growing as the rainforest is key to tackling global warming because of the way it absorbs carbon dioxide and releases oxygen. Mr Bolsonaro largely ignored the issue at first and even attempted to blame environmental charities, accusing them of lighting the fires. Opposition MPs have said the raging infernos are a 'crime against humanity' and blamed his policies for fuelling the blazes. French President Emmanuel Macron had called the wildfires an international crisis and said the leaders of the G7 group of nations should hold urgent discussions about them during their summit in France this weekend. Mr Macron tweeted: 'Our house is burning. Literally. The Amazon rain forest – the lungs which produces 20% of our planet's oxygen – is on fire.'Mr Bolsonaro hit back at Macron, complaining he was the subject of a smear campaign and the media had exploited the fires to undermine his government. His chief of staff, Onyx Lorenzoni, also accused European countries of exaggerating environmental problems in Brazil in order to disrupt its commercial interests. Relations between Europe and Brazil are at a low, which has worried the powerful agriculture sector. Last week, Norway joined Germany in halting $60 million worth of Amazon protection subsidies, accusing Brazil of turning its back on the fight against deforestation. French and German leaders have also threatened not to ratify a trade deal between the European Union and Mercosur countries (Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay) to pressure Brazil into complying with its environmental pledges within the Paris Climate Agreement. In contrast, the UK is currently on a trade mission in Brazil attempting to forge closer ties post-Brexit. The neighbouring country of Bolivia is also struggling with wildfires, many believed to have been set by farmers clearing land for cultivation.	True
134	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-09-18	Regeneration International, a sustainable farming nonprofit, organized the missive with the climate justice group Sunrise Movement.	e believe these climate goals are achievable," the letter argues, "but only if the GND includes policies that spur two large-scale transitions: the transition away from fossil fuels toward renewable energy alternatives, and the transition away from industrial agriculture toward family farm-based organic and regenerative farming and land-use practices that improve soil health and draw down and sequester carbon."	The letter was signed by more than 500 individual farms and 50 organizations representing close to 10,000 members.	e call on Congress to put the 'Green' in the Green New Deal," Wednesday's letter reads, "by empowering us to revitalize the health and economic security of this country's middle class, to make family farming economically viable again, and to help reverse climate change and improve America's air and water quality by making our ecosystems healthy again."	Farmers supported the Trump administration's proposal last week to finalize the rollback of the Obama-era Waters of the U.S. rule, which had put new restrictions on which waterways agribusiness could pollute.		10,000 Farmers And Ranchers Endorse Green New Deal In Letter To Congress Nearly 10,000 farmers and ranchers are endorsing the Green New Deal as the climate policy battleground expands from the oil fields to the agricultural fields. In a letter sent to Congress on Wednesday morning, the newly formed bipartisan coalition U.S. Farmers & Ranchers for a Green New Deal threw its weight behind the sweeping industrial plan outlined in a resolution that Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) proposed in February. But zeroing out the country's planet-heating emissions by mid-century requires a transformation in agriculture as dramatic as shifting the energy sector away from fossil fuels, the letter says." e believe these climate goals are achievable," the letter argues, "but only if the GND includes policies that spur two large-scale transitions: the transition away from fossil fuels toward renewable energy alternatives, and the transition away from industrial agriculture toward family farm-based organic and regenerative farming and land-use practices that improve soil health and draw down and sequester carbon." The letter was signed by more than 500 individual farms and 50 organizations representing close to 10,000 members. Regeneration International, a sustainable farming nonprofit, organized the missive with the climate justice group Sunrise Movement. It also hosted a Wednesday morning press conference in Washington.A month ago, the United Nations released a dire new report urging major changes to food production and land management and warning that emissions cuts alone will fall short of halting catastrophic global warming. Taking cues from those pushing for a Green New Deal, several Democratic presidential hopefuls have made farming practices central to their climate proposals. Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) earmarked $410 billion in his Green New Deal proposal to help "farms of all sizes transition to ecologically regenerative agricultural practices." Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) called for breaking up agriculture monopolies as part of her broad rural platform. South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg vowed to "support farmers" by "paying them to capture carbon." Yet even as farmers reel from the effects of President Donald Trump's trade war with China, Democratic candidates are far from guaranteed their votes. Farmers supported the Trump administration's proposal last week to finalize the rollback of the Obama-era Waters of the U.S. rule, which had put new restrictions on which waterways agribusiness could pollute. Early on, Republican opposition to the Green New Deal itself coalesced around the idea that such a program would ban beef production, although supporters have clearly said it would not." e call on Congress to put the 'Green' in the Green New Deal," Wednesday's letter reads, "by empowering us to revitalize the health and economic security of this country's middle class, to make family farming economically viable again, and to help reverse climate change and improve America's air and water quality by making our ecosystems healthy again."	False
9	foxnews	right_bias	2019-04-03	While Gaetz's proposal consists of free-market and small-government ideas of the kind Republicans have long embraced, the plan is a notable shift for the party toward tackling climate change in some fashion.	he question for America is pretty simple: either we want a bunch of bureaucrats in Washington telling us what we can't do, or we empower American innovators to unlock things that we can do," the Florida congressman said at a press conference in front of the Capitol building.	What's more, it is presented as a collection of bold, new ideas yet most of them are policies and programs that exist and aren't working.	EVIL'His plan, which he is putting forward in a House resolution, involves a number of planks including revisiting global trade and intellectual property policies to create "an international marketplace fair to American innovators."	This is perhaps the only thing 'real' about the 'Green Real Deal,'" the statement said.		GOP Rep. Matt Gaetz unveils 'Green Real Deal,' as conservative answer to AOC pet project Republican Rep. Matt Gaetz unveiled the "Green Real Deal" on Wednesday as a free-market counterproposal to the Green New Deal being pushed by Democrats to combat climate change." he question for America is pretty simple: either we want a bunch of bureaucrats in Washington telling us what we can't do, or we empower American innovators to unlock things that we can do," the Florida congressman said at a press conference in front of the Capitol building. AOC MOCKS CRITICS OF GREEN NEW DEAL'S ESTIMATED $93 TRILLION PRICE TAG: 'THEY SOUND LIKE DR. EVIL'His plan, which he is putting forward in a House resolution, involves a number of planks including revisiting global trade and intellectual property policies to create "an international marketplace fair to American innovators." Gaetz's plan also aims to modernize the electric grid, which he says currently "functions as a wet blanket over American innovation." Gaetz claims that upgrading the grid will create an "entire class of energy entrepreneurs across the country." He also wants to "unlock federal lands" from current regulations, saying they can be "an open canvas" for renewable energy research, testing and evaluation. The plan comes in response to the Green New Deal, a once-fringe policy that seeks to overhaul the nation's economy and energy use to combat climate change and combat income inequality. But this year it has emerged in the Democratic mainstream, with a resolution introduced in the House and support from most major 2020 Democratic presidential candidates. However, a test vote on the proposal recently failed in the Senate with no senator voting to begin debate on the legislation. The proposal includes a host of costly and controversial big-government programs -- including a push for net-zero greenhouse gas emissions, universal health care and job guarantee programs. In the press conference, Gaetz made references to FAQs released by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's, D-N.Y., office that said the deal aims to "upgrade or replace every building" for energy efficiency and render air travel unnecessary, while joking about getting rid of "farting cows." Do we really believe that if we outlaw cars, cows, planes and buildings that the rest of the world will follow?" he said. "Of course not, they will laugh at us." While Gaetz's proposal consists of free-market and small-government ideas of the kind Republicans have long embraced, the plan is a notable shift for the party toward tackling climate change in some fashion. Traditionally, Republicans have been more skeptical about man's influence on the climate. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Andrew Wheeler was asked in January at his confirmation hearing if he believed warnings from scientists about the threats of climate change."  would not call it the greatest crisis, no" he said. In an indication of likely conservative opposition to Gaetz's plan, advocacy group FreedomWorks issued a statement calling it a "sad example of Republicans thinking they're conservatives by being slightly to the right of far left." What's more, it is presented as a collection of bold, new ideas yet most of them are policies and programs that exist and aren't working. This is perhaps the only thing 'real' about the 'Green Real Deal,'" the statement said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPGaetz said at the press conference that he doesn't think the EPA has done a good job of combating climate change and said he wants to shift the debate among Republicans -- from focusing on the existence of climate change, to how to combat it."I didn't come to Congress to argue with a thermometer and I think that more of my colleagues need to realize that the science of global warming is irrefutable," he said.	False
662	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-10-25	The people believe them."	The people believed them," he wrote in a December 2015 blog post.	I would go right down to the core, starting with the question, 'How much do human emissions increase atmospheric carbon dioxide?'	On April 20, the day before the March for Science protest in Washington, D.C., New York University physicist Steve Koonin published an op-ed in The Wall Street Journal calling for a red-team, blue-team exercise to "put the 'consensus' to the test, and improve public understanding, through an open, adversarial process."	The names included on the list suggest that the Heartland Institute wants the debate to go directly after the scientific and legal underpinnings of the EPA's regulations on climate change.		Here's The List Of Climate Change Deniers Considered For The EPA's 'Red Team' Debate HuffPost has obtained a list of prominent climate deniers that the Heartland Institute, a right-wing think tank, assembled and submitted to the agency in May. The Illinois-based group, which has ties to the fossil fuel billionaires who run Koch Industries, boasted in July that the White House "reached out" for help identifying scientists for these debates. This appears to be the list the Heartland Institute provided. The names included on the list suggest that the Heartland Institute wants the debate to go directly after the scientific and legal underpinnings of the EPA's regulations on climate change. Rather than debating the regulatory approaches, they want to undermine the conclusion that climate change is a real problem. But while Trump and Pruitt have begun rolling back regulations on greenhouse gas emissions, so far they have not attempted to undo the 2009 finding that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases pose a threat to human health and the environment ― a conclusion known as the endangerment finding. It was the EPA under George W. Bush that first made that determination in response to a 2007 Supreme Court ruling, but it never acted on that finding. The Obama EPA did, and, once that conclusion was reached, the agency was required by law to issue regulations under the Clean Air Act. Ninety-seven percent of peer-reviewed research agrees with the conclusion that burning fossil fuels, deforestation and industrial farms are enshrouding the planet in heat-trapping gases, and a research review published last November found significant flaws in the methodologies, assumptions or analyses used by the 3 percent of scientists who concluded otherwise. Calls for the red-team, blue-team exercise began in April, one month before the date marked on the top of the documents. On April 20, the day before the March for Science protest in Washington, D.C., New York University physicist Steve Koonin published an op-ed in The Wall Street Journal calling for a red-team, blue-team exercise to "put the 'consensus' to the test, and improve public understanding, through an open, adversarial process." The next day, Judith Curry, a retired climatologist known for mocking other scientists as "alarmists," and Anthony Watts, who runs a popular climate change denial blog, endorsed the idea. The next week, Pruitt met with Koonin for an hour, according to schedules published by The Washington Post. The meeting included "about 40 climate scientists, economists, lawyers, and other experts to discuss the possible creation by the Trump administration of a Red Team - Blue Team exercise on climate change," he wrote. He noted this was the second "Red Team briefing," following an initial gathering on June 14 in Washington, D.C. A final summit is scheduled for Nov. 8, the day before the Heartland Institute's America First Energy Conference in Houston. This seems to be the goal of the list, which includes 145 scientists and 60 economists who have long been on the fringes of the climate debate, making their names as contrarians given to bombastic public statements. In his email, Bast said he assembled a list "of around 150 climate experts," which he sent "to folks at EPA in response to their request for recommendations." A source who requested anonymity provided the list to the watchdog Climate Investigations Center, which shared it with HuffPost." ztec priests told people they must cut out their beating hearts to bring better climate for their crops. The people believed them," he wrote in a December 2015 blog post. "Today's climate priests tell people they must cut out their CO2 emissions and pay penances to other nations, like China, to save our climate. The people believe them." I would go right down to the core, starting with the question, 'How much do human emissions increase atmospheric carbon dioxide?' That's the first assumption the blue team makes, and they have to prove that that's true," he said. "In my opinion, the red team would win that debate on the carbon dioxide." Carlin spent decades as an economist working at the EPA before becoming a conservative media darling for publicly accusing the agency of muzzling his criticism of the endangerment finding. He was never assigned to work on climate change and holds a doctorate in economics, not atmospheric science or climatology, and his comments on the finding were deemed to be the "product of rushed and at times shoddy scholarship," according to a 2009 analysis by The New York Times. Yet he submitted the 93-page report suggesting the research behind human-caused climate change is "more religion than science."	False
104	vox	left_bias	2019-12-16	[NBC29 / CJ Paschall]• Another potential issue that is concerning researchers is the obfuscation of the data due to the new policy of differential privacy that is designed to protect individual responses.	This story is part of a group of stories calledVox Sentences is your daily digest for what's happening in the world.	[Buzzfeed News / Otillia Steadman]"If a person can accomplish all of that positivity with so little, imagine what they could do with a little bit of support and encouragement."	Your daily wrap-up for the day in news.	[Roll Call / Michael Macagnone]• The Council on Foreign Relations' Andrew Chatzky explains why the census really matters: granting political agency, dividing up federal funds, and assist private companies in matching their business endeavors with receptive populations.	While it is supposed to prevent individuals from being identified within data sets, it is skewing data and producing problems in the analysis. <sep> [YouTube / Christina Thornell and Mac Schneider]How a denial of tenure at Harvard became a national controversyHealthcare. <sep> [New York Times / Michael Wines and Jose A. Del Real]• Many of these costly efforts surround reaching hard-to-count populations within states, often at the expense of those populations. <sep> Vox Sentences: Climate talks left in the cold The news, but shorter. <sep> 	Vox Sentences: Climate talks left in the cold The news, but shorter. Your daily wrap-up for the day in news. Subscribe to get Vox Sentences delivered straight to your inbox. This story is part of a group of stories calledVox Sentences is your daily digest for what's happening in the world. Sign up for the Vox Sentences newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox Monday through Friday, or view the Vox Sentences archive for past editions.• UN climate talks ended Sunday without a full agreement of world powers on how to address the imminent threat of global warming. [AP News / Frank Jordans and Aritz Parra]• While the negotiations were meant to shore up the Paris agreement and define the terms on which the signatory countries would reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. But Trump has pulled the US out of the deal, unofficially since the US can't formally withdraw until November 4, 2020, the day after the American presidential election. [Vox / Umair Irfan]• The US, along with other major polluters, blocked a nonbinding measure that set higher standards for emissions reduction across the world and left little more than a weak call to action in the final declaration of the event. [New York Times / Somini Sengupta]• Several other countries who are experiencing climate disasters of their own, such as Australia and Brazil, also participated in gutting the summit. [Financial Times]• "We're in a very politically difficult time right now where we've got one key world leader denying climate change, so it's very hard to get other countries to move forward when you've got such a critical country playing a spoiling role," said Ian Fry, a delegate from Tuvalu. [Politico / Zack Colman and Kalina Oroschakoff]• Future negotiations are possible, with the next UN-sponsored conference regarding climate change set to take place in Glasgow but the EU-China summit next September in Leipzig will likely decide the outcome of future global efforts to combat climate change. [BBC / Matt McGrath]• Vox's Ezra Klein says there is still hope, and time, for us to fight global warming. The tools are within our reach. [Vox / Ezra Klein]• Some states are looking to shell out billions to help the 2020 census effort while others won't even pitch in a dime. [New York Times / Michael Wines and Jose A. Del Real]• Many of these costly efforts surround reaching hard-to-count populations within states, often at the expense of those populations. [NBC29 / CJ Paschall]• Another potential issue that is concerning researchers is the obfuscation of the data due to the new policy of differential privacy that is designed to protect individual responses. While it is supposed to prevent individuals from being identified within data sets, it is skewing data and producing problems in the analysis. [Roll Call / Michael Macagnone]• The Council on Foreign Relations' Andrew Chatzky explains why the census really matters: granting political agency, dividing up federal funds, and assist private companies in matching their business endeavors with receptive populations. [Council on Foreign Relations / Andrew Chatzky]• Oklahoma City and other local governments are looking to end food deserts by working with dollar stores. [Wall Street Journal / Talal Ansari]• Harvey Weinstein says he should receive thanks and recognition for helping women in Hollywood advance their careers. [Page Six / Rebecca Rosenberg]• Fox News is rebutting Trump's own claims of good polling numbers. [Vox / Aaron Rupar]• While speaking at the Doha Forum in Qatar, Ivanka Trump answered questions and sent mixed signals about the Middle East plan. [Buzzfeed News / Otillia Steadman]"If a person can accomplish all of that positivity with so little, imagine what they could do with a little bit of support and encouragement." [Terah Lawyer, program coordinator for the Homecoming Project, speaking to the impact of the project]Watch this: What makes Delhi's air so deadlyHow India's air quality plummeted and why it's a danger to the public. [YouTube / Christina Thornell and Mac Schneider]How a denial of tenure at Harvard became a national controversyHealthcare. gov glitches almost ruined the end of open enrollment. Is there a better way?Mitt Romney and Michael Bennet just unveiled a basic income plan for kidsThe reason we're talking about a government shutdown yet again, briefly explained	False
332	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-07-31	"Whatever sales or events occurred in California were causally insignificant in the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming."	"Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants' alleged California activities to plaintiffs' harm."	rom all that appears in the amended complaints, however, this worldwide chain of events (Exxon's oil production) does not depend on a particular defendant's contacts with California," he said.	t is manifest that global warming would have continued in the absence of all California-related activities of defendants," Alsup wrote in his July 27 decision.	They argue that Exxon and others should pony-up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change.		Federal Judge Puts The Final Nail In The Coffin Of California's Climate Crusade A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit Friday targeting ExxonMobil on the basis that two California cities waging a legal battle could not prove the energy company was responsible for climate change in the state. District Judge William Alsup wrote that San Francisco and Oakland failed to prove that global warming would be substantially curtailed if the oil company did not operate inside California. His decision follows a ruling the judge made in June dismissing both cases on the grounds that Congress, not the court system, is responsible for addressing the emission of greenhouse gasses." t is manifest that global warming would have continued in the absence of all California-related activities of defendants," Alsup wrote in his July 27 decision. "Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants' alleged California activities to plaintiffs' harm." Cities in Colorado, Rhode Island, and New York have also filed similar lawsuits against energy producers over the past year. They argue that Exxon and others should pony-up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change. Many of the lawsuits have already been nixed. Alsup also suggested that climate change would be no better or worse even if Exxon were not operating in California." rom all that appears in the amended complaints, however, this worldwide chain of events (Exxon's oil production) does not depend on a particular defendant's contacts with California," he said. "Whatever sales or events occurred in California were causally insignificant in the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming." Trial lawyers with Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled climate lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings, called a contingency fee. (RELATED: Trial Lawyers Handling Cities' Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions)Hagens Berman stood to earn billions of dollars in contingency fees depending on the total winnings, from a favorable judgement against oil companies. The three cities claimed billions of dollars-worth of damage from global warming induced by fossil fuels.	False
150	cnn	left_bias	2019-01-18	By using this alternative approach, we are able to highlight where there are operational risks."	"The report reads like an introductory primer and carries about as much value as a phonebook," he said.	The report also raised, very briefly, the logistical challenge weather conditions can create for intelligence collection, surveillance and reconnaissance, as well as recovery and casualty evacuation.	It lists a few projects the defense department has undertaken with partner countries and notes the need to consider how drought and desertification impact overseas bases and missions.	The Pentagon report notes that the department "is incorporating climate resilience as a cross-cutting consideration for our planning and decision-making process, and not as a separate program or specific set of actions."		Lawmakers lambast Pentagon climate report Washington (CNN) Hurricane Florence ravaged Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune in North Carolina in September, leaving behind an estimated $3.6 billion worth of wreckage. But there's no mention of that in a new Pentagon report detailing the impact of climate change on the defense department. The "Report on Effects of a Changing Climate to the Department of Defense" does not mention Camp Lejeune, the Marine Corps, Hurricane Florence or even the threats posed by extreme weather events -- more destructive storms, more intense rainfall -- that scientists say are more likely given climate change and global warming. Those omissions are just one reason lawmakers greeted the Congressionally mandated report with eviscerating criticism on Friday. The report didn't meet the legal requirement to list the 10 most vulnerable military installations for each service, they said. And despite the global impact of climate change, it didn't list a single US military installation outside the United States. Lawmakers, pointing to President Donald Trump's skepticism about climate change and his administration's steady rollback of measures meant to mitigate the impacts of global warming, were scathing. The report is "an inadequate, incomplete, partisan document," said Sen. Jack Reed, the ranking Democratic member of the Armed Services Committee." We know that climate change is real and impacts the way our Armed Forces carry out their missions in different parts of the globe," Reed said in a statement. "Former Secretary (James) Mattis recognized and affirmed this fact." The Pentagon report follows a January study by the Government Accountability Office that found that under the Trump administration, the State Department removed guidance to overseas missions on how to include climate change risks in their country strategies, particularly in relation to migration. The Pentagon report notes that the department "is incorporating climate resilience as a cross-cutting consideration for our planning and decision-making process, and not as a separate program or specific set of actions." Pentagon spokesman Lt. Col. Mike Andrews said, "the effects of a changing climate are a national security issue with potential impacts to DOD missions, operational plans and installations." But Reed noted that despite legal requirements, the Pentagon report simply outlined an alphabetical list of 79 military installations. "The report reads like an introductory primer and carries about as much value as a phonebook," he said. And Rep. Jim Langevin, a Rhode Island Democrat who sits on the House Armed Services Committee, said he was "deeply disappointed." Langevin noted that the "the report comes after a year where the Department suffered nearly $10 billion in damage in just two extreme events at Tyndall Air Force Base and Camp Lejeune—two installations that were not even evaluated." Pentagon spokeswoman Heather Babb said the "report highlights the climate vulnerabilities of the top 79 mission assurance priority installations. By using this alternative approach, we are able to highlight where there are operational risks." The Pentagon did not answer multiple questions from CNN, including: why it failed to meet Congress' request to list the 10 most vulnerable installations, why it mentioned no military installations outside the US or why the climate factors it considered did not include extreme weather, and why Camp Lejeune isn't listed among the 79 installations. Babb also declined to respond to Reed's criticism. The report acknowledges that "the effects of a changing climate are a national security issue with potential impacts to Department of Defense missions, operational plans, and installations." It looks at the impact of recurrent flooding, noting that Joint Base Langley in Virginia has seen a 14-inch sea level rise since 1930. It briefly notes military installations affected drought, particularly in the southwest, and by desertification. The report touches on wildfires that came close to Space Launch complexes and a southern California base, as well as thawing permafrost in Alaska. Although no overseas military installations were listed, the report noted the widely recognized impact climate change has on fragile regions, particularly in Africa and Asia, and the instability and conflict it can create. It lists a few projects the defense department has undertaken with partner countries and notes the need to consider how drought and desertification impact overseas bases and missions. The report also raised, very briefly, the logistical challenge weather conditions can create for intelligence collection, surveillance and reconnaissance, as well as recovery and casualty evacuation. And it flagged the way climate change will create new security challenges in the Arctic, where melting ice means greater access but also greater international competition for the waterways.	False
697	Politicus USA	left_bias	2017-04-08	"Conservation must remain a way of life."	California officials have credited residents for doing their part to conserve water by taking shorter showers and ripping out grass lawns to install landscaping that requires minimal irrigation, among other measures.	Brown also said the need for conservation continued.	The drought cost the agricultural economy billions, killed an estimated 100 million trees, led a half-million acres of farmland to be fallowed and deprived some communities of reliable sources of drinking water.	t's worth taking a moment to be grateful for all the rain and snow out there," Felicia Marcus, chair of the State Water Resources Control Board, told reporters on a conference call after the governor's announcement.		California governor declares end to drought emergency LOS ANGELES (Reuters) – One of the worst droughts in California history has officially ended, Governor Jerry Brown declared, but not before it strained the state's farm economy and threatened water supplies for millions of residents. Months of drenching storms and melting snowpack have replenished reservoirs, which began drying up in late 2011. That allowed Brown to lift most stipulations of an emergency order he implemented in January 2014, about two years after the conditions crossed the line into drought. Brown also said the need for conservation continued. Officials will still require some long-term water-use limits imposed last year and are developing water preservation standards for urban agencies." his drought emergency is over, but the next drought could be around the corner," Brown said in a statement. "Conservation must remain a way of life." The drought cost the agricultural economy billions, killed an estimated 100 million trees, led a half-million acres of farmland to be fallowed and deprived some communities of reliable sources of drinking water. In April 2015, when the state's snowpack hit its lowest since 1950 at 5 percent of its historic average, Brown stood on a dry mountain that was normally blanketed in snow at that time of year and ordered urban areas to reduce water use by 25 percent. As of last week, the snowpack stood at 150 percent of normal. The 2015 order led environmentalists to complain that the state, which leads the nation in production of fruits and vegetables, did too little to force farmers to conserve water. For their part, farmers said they received far less water than promised by state and federal authorities. On Friday, the Democratic governor lifted the drought declaration in all counties except four, mostly in the state's agricultural Central Valley." t's worth taking a moment to be grateful for all the rain and snow out there," Felicia Marcus, chair of the State Water Resources Control Board, told reporters on a conference call after the governor's announcement. California officials have credited residents for doing their part to conserve water by taking shorter showers and ripping out grass lawns to install landscaping that requires minimal irrigation, among other measures. Even though the drought is officially over, groundwater supplies remain below normal, the Natural Resources Defense Council cautioned in a statement." ear after year, California continues to use more water than is made available by nature," Kate Poole, director of the group's water and wildlife project, said in a statement.	False
371	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-11-27	We'd like to see something that is more data driven.	"It's not data driven.	org.	He says the NCA's second volume relies on the RCP8.5, one of the four possible pathways in the trajectory.	We think that this is the most extreme version and it's not based on facts," she said.		'Not Based On Facts': Sarah Sanders Pushes Back Against New Climate Report White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders dismissed a major White House climate change report that some have used to criticize President Donald Trump's position on global warming. The report is "not based on facts," Sanders told reporters during a press conference Tuesday. She also argued that climate modeling of the kind researchers used in the National Climate Assessment report "is never exact." We think that this is the most extreme version and it's not based on facts," she said. "It's not data driven. We'd like to see something that is more data driven. It's based on modeling, which is extremely hard to do when you're talking about the climate." The NCA report came from a team of 13 federal agencies and was cobbled together with the help of 300 scientists. They used a Representative Concentration Pathway adopted by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's (IPCC) fifth Assessment Report (AR5) to make their conclusions. Continued use of coal and other fossil fuels will eliminate 10 percent of the GDP by 2100, according to the report. The country will also be 3 to 12 degrees hotter depending on the level of greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere, the report warns. It also suggests wildfires and hurricanes will increase as a result if the risk is left unchecked. The report is not without its controversies. One climate expert argues researchers used an unreliable climate model. University of Colorado Prof. Roger Pielke Jr., for instance, criticized the researchers in a series of tweets Saturday for basing their modeling on a data that are likely to change dramatically over the course of the next 80 years. He says the NCA's second volume relies on the RCP8.5, one of the four possible pathways in the trajectory. (RELATED: A Top-Line Claim In The Newest US Climate Report Relies On Research Tied To Major Democratic Donors)This particular pathway is slowly being phased out of the IPCC's modeling because scientists believe the model likely overestimates future supply of fossil fuels. Researchers used the most extreme example possible to sell the narrative that wildfires will get worse, Pielke noted. He has criticized the media's handling of similar reports. NCA's dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes from a 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors. The study was also funded by other organizations, including the National Science Foundation, the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
504	npr	left_center_bias	2018-12-06	The EPA will collect public comments on the proposal for 60 days and plans to hold a public hearing on the proposed rule change.	Today's proposal is nothing more than another thoughtless attempt by the Trump Administration to prop up their backwards and false narrative about reviving coal at the expense of science, public safety, and reality," said Mary Anne Hitt, senior director of Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign.	This is the latest in a series of efforts the Trump administration has taken to help the coal business.	Environmental groups argue that in order to reduce climate change risks, the world will have to stop burning coal.	This is just one more foolhardy move by a misguided administration that will be judged harshly by future generations," said David Doniger, senior strategic director of the Climate & Clean Energy program at the Natural Resources Defense Council."		Trump's EPA Plans To Ease Carbon Emissions Rule For New Coal Plants Trump's EPA Plans To Ease Carbon Emissions Rule For New Coal PlantsThe Trump administration plans to eliminate an Obama-era requirement that new coal-fired power plants have expensive technology to capture carbon dioxide emissions. This latest administration effort to boost fossil fuel industries comes as leaders from nearly 200 countries are meeting in Poland to discuss how to keep greenhouse gasses out of the atmosphere. And amid reports that CO2 emissions are rising again, as well as the administration's own report that climate change is causing more severe weather more frequently and could eventually hurt the U.S. economy. The Environmental Protection Agency proposal would revise its "New Source Performance Standards" for coal power plants, allowing coal-fired generators to emit more CO2 per megawatt-hour of electricity generated. This would ease an Obama-era rule that was a central target in critics' accusations of a "war on coal." The coal industry argues the existing Obama administration requirements made it all but impossible to build new coal power plants, by requiring costly technologies such as carbon capture and storage. EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler, a former coal industry lobbyist, echoed that argument in announcing the proposed rule change." By replacing onerous regulations with high, yet achievable, standards, we can continue America's historic energy production, keep energy prices affordable, and encourage new investments in cutting-edge technology that can then be exported around the world," said Wheeler. Environmental groups argue that in order to reduce climate change risks, the world will have to stop burning coal. They blasted the EPA's announcement." This is just one more foolhardy move by a misguided administration that will be judged harshly by future generations," said David Doniger, senior strategic director of the Climate & Clean Energy program at the Natural Resources Defense Council." Today's proposal is nothing more than another thoughtless attempt by the Trump Administration to prop up their backwards and false narrative about reviving coal at the expense of science, public safety, and reality," said Mary Anne Hitt, senior director of Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign. In fact, it's not at all clear if the change would help the ailing coal industry. In recent years it has stopped building new plants and been shutting down old ones instead. The federal Energy Information Administration reports U.S. coal consumption has declined over the last decade and this year is expected to be at its lowest level in 39 years. Even as coal use rises in China and India, coal has struggled in the U.S. to compete with cheaper electricity produced from natural gas and renewable energy. But coal industry officials believe this rule change will still help." It does appear that this proposal would make it feasible for new coal plants to be a viable option in the future in the United States," says Michelle Bloodworth, president and CEO of the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity. This is the latest in a series of efforts the Trump administration has taken to help the coal business. Previous actions include relaxing Obama-era regulations on carbon emissions and mercury emissions as well as rolling back existing regulations that govern coal ash. The EPA will collect public comments on the proposal for 60 days and plans to hold a public hearing on the proposed rule change.	False
689	CNN	left_bias	2017-04-22	We have many priorities at the agency.	We must focus on those," he told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on "The Situation Room" in February, rattling off other needs, such as improving air quality.	America must look forward to and innovate for 21st century solutions.	"We are an extraordinarily innovative, capable nation.	And now, of course, it's coal's inability to compete with natural gas on price for power generation.		Climate scientists, officials dismayed over Trump's stance This week, President Donald Trump was to meet with senior administration officials to discuss the deal -- and whether the United States should withdraw from it. The meeting was postponed indefinitely, and with key Trump advisers divided over the issue, it is still uncertain what Trump will finally do about the accord. But advocates of greater federal regulations to address climate change are already expressing dismay about the administration's stance. It's no secret that Trump has called climate change a "hoax" in the past. Last month, he signed an executive order rolling back Obama-era climate regulations, which will initiate a review of the Clean Power Plan, an effort to cut carbon dioxide emissions that Obama started. And Trump's pick to run the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, has made it clear addressing climate change will not be an urgent priority for the agency under his watch, declining to say after his confirmation whether he would forbid EPA scientists from studying the human connection to the issue." We have many priorities at the agency. We must focus on those," he told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on "The Situation Room" in February, rattling off other needs, such as improving air quality. He declined to answer repeated questions as to whether he would "allow" climate-change research. "It's a shame for us to lose our leadership position," said Christine Todd Whitman, the EPA administrator during the George W. Bush administration. "We are an extraordinarily innovative, capable nation. We can come up with better ways to provide power to people and still keep jobs. This idea that environmental protection and economic growth are contrary are just wrong, and we've proven that over the years as we have reduced the pollutants in the air, increased the population, increased our energy demand and watched our GDP more than double." "We've seen we can do this," Whitman continued. "We've done it in the past; we can do it again. We can't have a thriving economy if you don't have a healthy, clean environment." Adam Koniuszewski, project leader of the Gorbachev Climate Change Task Force, a think tank that focuses on global challenges posed by climate change, agreed with Whitman. "President Trump has an America First policy," he said. "But in terms of climate leadership, it is exactly the opposite. Promoting a coal- or fossil-fuel-based economy will, in reality, leave America last in terms of a low-carbon economy in the 21st century. China is already taking the lead when it comes to renewable energy -- both solar and wind power. America must look forward to and innovate for 21st century solutions. An emphasis on coal and the energy sources that propelled the industrial revolution is like returning to the Stone Age." Trump's executive order also lifts the moratorium on coal mining on federal lands, something that William Becker, executive director of the Presidential Climate Action Project called a "cruel political stunt" designed to rally the support of coal miners, but which won't bring back many jobs. "What we need to do is make sure the transition to clean energy, which is inevitable, is a just and fair transition, one that helps coal-dependent communities and workers make transitions into other kinds of jobs," Becker said. "There's plenty to do out there, including environmental restoration positions," he said. "Coal jobs are not going to come back. There may be a little surge in them, but not much. It's technology or mechanization that's cost most of the jobs this past century in the coal industry. And now, of course, it's coal's inability to compete with natural gas on price for power generation. The market conditions are what's causing the coal industry to decline, and there's not much the President can do to reverse that trend." Trump has proposed massive cuts at the EPA, which Whitman believes is going to imperil its mission going forward. "The EPA can't survive with 31% cuts to the budget," she said. "That's going to really make it impossible for the agency to continue its mission, which is to protect public health and the environment."	False
227	thenewyorktimes	left_center_bias	2019-03-01	Among other measures, he wants to expand background checks and restrict some semiautomatic weapons.	growth in the nation in 2018, according to the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis.	He then proposed a different series of actions, including running the state's electric utilities fully on renewable power by 2045, requiring buildings to be more energy efficient, promoting electric vehicles and cutting down on hydrofluorocarbons, which are used in air-conditioners.	Jay Inslee on the Issues His environmental policy record in his home state is long.	While Mr. Inslee has made clear that he intends to focus overwhelmingly on climate change, he is on the record supporting liberal policies in many other areas.• He has been outspoken in favor of gun control, and after the shooting in Parkland, Fla., last year, he confronted President Trump on live television, denouncing Mr. Trump's suggestion to arm schoolteachers.		Jay Inslee on the Issues His environmental policy record in his home state is long. In 2015, he ordered Washington's Department of Ecology to impose a cap on carbon emissions. He created a fund for clean energy, and the state now has extensive solar energy infrastructure and electric buses. While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels, Washington had the highest G.D.P. growth in the nation in 2018, according to the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis. Mr. Inslee also tried unsuccessfully last year to get the Washington Legislature to vote on a carbon tax, which would have been the first in the nation; voters rejected the proposal in November. He then proposed a different series of actions, including running the state's electric utilities fully on renewable power by 2045, requiring buildings to be more energy efficient, promoting electric vehicles and cutting down on hydrofluorocarbons, which are used in air-conditioners. Hydrofluorocarbon emissions have been growing faster than any other form of greenhouse gas emissions. In an op-ed in The Washington Post, Mr. Inslee called for net-zero carbon emissions nationwide by 2050 — a longer timeline than the Green New Deal's 10 years, which experts say is unrealistic. ("Net-zero" could mean either eliminating carbon emissions altogether, or reducing them and using offsetting technologies to cancel out the rest.) He also called for a "100 percent clean-energy grid" and "massive investments" to transition buildings, industries and transportation to renewable sources. While Mr. Inslee has made clear that he intends to focus overwhelmingly on climate change, he is on the record supporting liberal policies in many other areas.• He has been outspoken in favor of gun control, and after the shooting in Parkland, Fla., last year, he confronted President Trump on live television, denouncing Mr. Trump's suggestion to arm schoolteachers. Among other measures, he wants to expand background checks and restrict some semiautomatic weapons. His advocacy on the issue goes back many years; he lost his seat in Congress after voting for the 1994 assault weapons ban.	False
354	drudgereport	right_bias	2018-10-01	We contest the common narrative that past human-environment interactions must always be one of over-exploitation and degradation."	The model keeps track of variables such as vegetation and rainfall, and other processes such as the amount of energy coming from the sun, and the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.	Dr. Chris Brierley (UCL Geography), lead author, said: "The possibility that humans could have had a stabilising influence on the environment has significant implications.	It is likely that strategies used by contemporary traditional herders, such as seasonal movement and selective grazing, were also used by these early pastoralists, helping to maintain an otherwise deteriorating ecosystem."	The fact that societies practising 'pastoralism' persisted in this region for so long and invested both economically and ideologically in the local landscape, does not support the scenario of over-exploitation.		Humans delayed onset of Sahara desert by 500 years? The study by a team of geographers and archaeologists from UCL and King's College London, published in Nature Communications, suggests that early pastoralists in North Africa combined detailed knowledge of the environment with newly domesticated species to deal with the long-term drying trend. It is thought that early pastoralists in North Africa developed intricate ways to efficiently manage sparse vegetation and relatively dry and low fertility soils. Dr. Chris Brierley (UCL Geography), lead author, said: "The possibility that humans could have had a stabilising influence on the environment has significant implications. We contest the common narrative that past human-environment interactions must always be one of over-exploitation and degradation." The fact that societies practising 'pastoralism' persisted in this region for so long and invested both economically and ideologically in the local landscape, does not support the scenario of over-exploitation. Our study shows that increasing human population and sustainable pastoralism did not accelerate—and may even have delayed—the decline of the 'Green Sahara'." Around 8,000 years ago, the Sahara wasn't desert, but instead was a vibrant ecosystem that supported hunter-gatherers and fisherfolk. The 'Green Sahara' - the colloquial term for the African Humid Period – was the period in which North Africa became much wetter than it is today thanks to a series of monsoons. As the Earth's orbit slowly changed, the rain started to reduce, and the vegetation started to die back. Around 5,500 years ago, the ecosystem in the Sahara went into a terminal decline towards the desert we have today. Pastoralism (nomadic or semi-nomadic cattle-herders) blossomed in the Sahara from around 1000 years before that collapse. Previous studies have put the blame for the collapse of the 'Green Sahara' onto these nomads who have often been marginalised in history, but this latest studies dispels that myth. The study uses a novel climate-vegetation model to determine whether the end of the African Humid Period occurred earlier than expected. The model keeps track of variables such as vegetation and rainfall, and other processes such as the amount of energy coming from the sun, and the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. The model found that the 'Green Sahara' should have collapsed earlier than it did. This suggests that pastoralists lasted longer than expected and the techniques they used helped them to adapt to the environmental changes. Dr. Brierley added: "Those places where pastoralists last longer are where there are more resources. It's a good adaptation to the climate change taking place at the time. There is now work today looking at what we can learn from nomadic pastoralists, such as selective grazing strategies, which can be applied to sustainable adaption to desertification that we expect from future climate change." Dr. Katie Manning (King's College London), concluded: "Despite the largely inhospitable conditions of the Sahara today, it is not hard to find evidence of human occupation from the last 11,000 years. Thousands of rock art sites illustrate a lush environment, large-game hunting and livestock herding. The spread of domestic animals across the Sahara occurred at a time of increasing climatic instability, and yet, these pastoralist populations thrived." It is likely that strategies used by contemporary traditional herders, such as seasonal movement and selective grazing, were also used by these early pastoralists, helping to maintain an otherwise deteriorating ecosystem." Explore further: Did humans create the Sahara Desert?	False
21	redstate	right_bias	2019-02-05	A scenario where we're all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed.	When pie-in-the-sky thinking meets end-of-times conspiracy theories we get something like this.	All we have to do is give up our common sense.	Still, Ocasio-Cortez believes that if this plan gets put into action it'll solve every problem under the sun, including racism and bigotry.	$7 trillion.		Here's the Outrageous Cost of Ocasio-Cortez's "Green New Deal" Freshman Democrat Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has some lofty goals for herself and for America, with the benefits definitely more geared to benefit her. Meanwhile, her plans for us are incredibly costly, and not just because she's pushing a failed economic system for us to operate under. Ocasio-Cortez's "Green New Deal," as Fox News highlighted on Tuesday, is unprecedentedly expensive. The plan involves completely removing any and all uses of fossil fuels within America and moving to 100 percent renewable energy. The New York Democrat says the plan will take ten years. The cost of this ten-year plan? $7 trillion. As I've highlighted previously, the plan is beyond bad. Not only would it indebt us to Russia and China who hold the vast majority of the rare-earth materials needed to build the tidal wave of renewable energy devices we'd need to keep up with the nation's energy needs, but the wind farms, tidal generators, and solar farms have proven to be more deadly to the environment than oil spills. Hundreds of thousands of birds, many of them protected species, die at the hands of wind turbines yearly. Tidal generators beach whales with such frequency that if it were a Republican-backed project, environmental groups would be having conniption fits and endless marches. Still, Ocasio-Cortez believes that if this plan gets put into action it'll solve every problem under the sun, including racism and bigotry. What's more, the young democratic socialist proclaims that if we don't do it then we're all going to die in 12 years. When pie-in-the-sky thinking meets end-of-times conspiracy theories we get something like this. A scenario where we're all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed. All we have to do is give up our common sense.	False
76	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-09-19	The content is provided for information purposes only.	One of the many ways people can contribute to that movement is by telling others about steps they have personally taken, "then when you say 'this is really urgent,' your words are backed by the truth of your actions."	Maassarani is quick to admit that his case falls well outside what most people could envisage and is made possible only by living in what he calls a "consumption excessive society."	Some people, like Tarek Maassarani, take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes.	Kalmus, who has written a book on his experiences, said meeting critical goals to avert disaster will require a "rapid cultural transformation," and acts of individual defiance help achieve that.	What this means is "I don't buy any animal products, I try not to create any demand signal for animal products," he said. <sep> But how impactful can individual action be, in the absence of systemic changes from the top? <sep> 	Solar panels, vegan diets, no flights: 'Warming' revolutionaries... The last time Californian climate scientist Peter Kalmus was on an airplane was in 2012: He says it made him feel physically sick and like he was "stealing" from his children's future, and vowed never to fly again. US President Donald Trump's administration has made no secret of its disdain for climate science, but that hasn't stopped some ordinary Americans from finding ways to drastically reduce their own carbon footprints, hoping to persuade others through their examples. Kalmus was pursuing his post-doctoral studies in 2009 when he became increasingly concerned about the prospect of climate breakdown, tipping points such as the thawing of the Earth's permafrost triggering runaway global warming that wreaks havoc on weather systems. "I was shaking people by the lapels, posting screeds on Facebook, not really getting anywhere," he told AFP in an interview from his home in a Los Angeles suburb. "Eventually, it dawned on me that I should maybe bring my actions into alignment with my beliefs." Drawing upon his expertise as a scientist, he calculated the emissions associated with various aspects of his life and was surprised to learn that electricity consumption made up a tiny portion compared to air travel. "So I started focusing on flying less. I tried being a vegetarian for a month, and I liked it better," he said, quickly realizing that, rather than feeling like sacrifices, the changes he made were improving his sense of wellbeing. Some people, like Tarek Maassarani, take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes. The bespectacled 40-year-old with long blond hair does paid consulting for the United States Institute of Peace and is an adjunct professor at two Washington universities, but performs the bulk of his work in the volunteer sector. Two years ago, he moved out of a co-housing community in a Washington suburb when his two sons shifted to Utah to live with their mother, and has been living between friends' houses ever since. Apart from relying almost exclusively on his bicycle for transport, including deep into winter, Maassarani is focused on avoiding buying new products because of the energy-intensive nature of their production. He instead depends on hand-me-downs, "and I sort of extend the life of things well past what most people would do," finding ways to keep tatty decade-old cell phones and laptops going. He gets much of his food from dumpster diving or from the leftovers at buffets from conferences he attends, describing himself as a "supply-and-demand vegan." What this means is "I don't buy any animal products, I try not to create any demand signal for animal products," he said. At the same time, if meat is all that is left when he rummages through garbage or approaches buffets (he makes it a point to go last), he will consume it. Maassarani is quick to admit that his case falls well outside what most people could envisage and is made possible only by living in what he calls a "consumption excessive society." "I'm aware of course that if the excesses weren't there, it wouldn't work, but then again the problem wouldn't be there." Others, like Elizabeth Hogan, lead more conventional lives but are still re-orienting themselves toward more carbon neutrality. Hogan, who works as a consultant on mitigating the impact of ocean plastics on marine life, just outfitted solar panels on the roof of her home in Washington. She and her husband estimate these will account for 80 percent of their energy needs, with the balance coming from wind power bought at a premium from their electric provider. "Both of our careers are very planet-oriented, so it's kind of our whole lives, but I am certainly not claiming to be perfect," she says, conceding that they both fly extensively for work. Her love of cheese means she's a vegetarian, rather than a vegan, but sources her dairy from a nearby local farm that cleans and re-uses glass bottles returned to them. But how impactful can individual action be, in the absence of systemic changes from the top? After all, the United States' current climate commitments are rated by Climate Action Tracker as "critically insufficient" in meeting the goal of limiting long-term warming to two degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Kalmus, who has written a book on his experiences, said meeting critical goals to avert disaster will require a "rapid cultural transformation," and acts of individual defiance help achieve that. "The reason everyone's waking up is because there's been this massive grassroots shift over the last year or two," he said, citing the global youth movement for climate action. One of the many ways people can contribute to that movement is by telling others about steps they have personally taken, "then when you say 'this is really urgent,' your words are backed by the truth of your actions." Vegan is the new vegetarian—why supermarkets need to go 'plant-based' to help save the planet This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research, no part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is provided for information purposes only.	False
508	theguardian	left_center_bias	2018-05-26	Certainly, "in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power", said Meredith McGehee, executive director of Issue One, a not-for-profit group promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform.	hey recognised us as the pre-eminent organisation opposing the radical climate alarmism agenda and instead promoting sound science and policy," Huelskamp wrote.	It's not clear from the email, however, who initiated the attempt to rally conservatives for the public hearing.	t demonstrates the agency's dedication to advancing President Trump's agenda of environmental stewardship and regulatory certainty," he said.	The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement, leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency, especially when it comes to climate-changing carbon emissions.		Senior EPA officials collaborated with climate change denial group, emails show Newly released emails show senior Environmental Protection Agency officials working closely with a conservative group that dismisses climate change to rally like-minded people for public hearings on science and global warming, counter negative news coverage and tout Scott Pruitt's stewardship of the agency. John Konkus, EPA's deputy associate administrator for public affairs, repeatedly reached out to senior staffers at the Heartland Institute, according to the emails." f you send a list, we will make sure an invitation is sent," Konkus wrote to the then Heartland president, Joseph Bast, in May 2017, seeking suggestions on scientists and economists the EPA could invite to an annual EPA public hearing on the agency's science standards. Follow-up emails show Konkus and the Heartland Institute mustering scores of potential invitees known for rejecting scientific warnings of human-caused climate change, including from groups such as Plants Need CO2, The Right Climate Stuff and Junk Science. The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement, leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency, especially when it comes to climate-changing carbon emissions. They were obtained by the Environmental Defence Fund and the Southern Environmental Law Centre, which sued to enforce a Freedom of Information request. The EPA maintains close working relationships with a broad range of public and private groups, and Heartland is just one of many the agency engages with "to ensure the public is informed", said the EPA spokesman Lincoln Ferguson." t demonstrates the agency's dedication to advancing President Trump's agenda of environmental stewardship and regulatory certainty," he said. The public hearing referred to in the May 2017 email was cancelled when the EPA official who runs it fell ill, the EPA said. But Bast contended in an email sent to EPA staffers and others that the official called off the hearing after learning that climate change "sceptics planned to attend". The Heartland Institute calls itself a leading free market thinktank. It rejects decades of science saying fossil-fuel emissions are altering the climate and says on its website that curbing use of petroleum and coal to fight climate change would "squander one of America's greatest comparative advantages among the world's nations"." f course The Heartland Institute has been working with EPA on policy and personnel decisions," Tim Huelskamp, a former Kansas Republican congressman who now leads the group, said in a statement." hey recognised us as the pre-eminent organisation opposing the radical climate alarmism agenda and instead promoting sound science and policy," Huelskamp wrote. He said Heartland would continue to help Pruitt and his staff. Ferguson said Pruitt and his top officials had also met with groups known for their campaigns against climate-changing emissions and pollutants from fossil fuels, including the Moms Clean Air Force, the American Lung Association, and others. But Ben Levitan of the Environmental Defence Fund said mainstream climate-change groups have received nothing like the outreach and invitations that Heartland and other hard-right groups have been getting. Certainly, "in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power", said Meredith McGehee, executive director of Issue One, a not-for-profit group promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform. An email last February shows Bast forwarded to followers an email with the line "From the White House", rallying activists to public hearings the EPA was then holding around the country on repealing an Obama-era power plan meant to curb fossil-fuel emissions. The email is signed by a Pruitt political appointee and gives the name of another EPA official for activists to call. It's not clear from the email, however, who initiated the attempt to rally conservatives for the public hearing. The Washington Post reported in September that Konkus had been scrutinising grant applications for mentions of climate change, which he reportedly calls "the double C-word". Emails show he and former EPA spokeswoman, Liz Bowman, repeatedly reached out to Heartland to talk over critical coverage by the Post. Lakely, the Heartland spokesman, responded that he had shared the article with colleagues, "asking them to jump to your aide [sic] and defend this position". And an email from Bast, shared with EPA staffers and others, shows the then-Heartland president celebrating news that a reporter, Justin Gillis, was leaving the New York Times." ing Dong, the Witch is Dead. Still waiting for Chris Mooney and Juliet Eilperin at the WaPo and Seth Borenstein at AP to flame out," Bast writes.	False
532	cbsnews	left_center_bias	2018-08-17	"I've heard the climate change argument back and forth.	He also acknowledged that "temperatures are rising."	This has nothing to do with climate change.	This has to do with active forest management," Zinke said.	We have been held hostage by these environmental terrorist groups that have not allowed public access -- that have refused to allow [the] harvest of timber," Zinke told Breitbart Monday.		After denying link, interior secretary says climate change impacts wildfires Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke suggested that climate change may have a role in the recent wildfires that have ravaged California. When asked by CBS News reporter Weijia Jiang whether he accepted that climate change was part of the problem, Zinke said "of course." He also acknowledged that "temperatures are rising." However, Zinke also reiterated an argument that he made earlier this week, blaming environmental groups for preventing dead trees from being cleared due to their opposition to the logging industry." The only endangered species happens to be a logger," Zinke said. Earlier this week, Zinke blamed "environmental terrorist groups" for California's destructive wildfires in an interview with Breitbart Radio." We have been held hostage by these environmental terrorist groups that have not allowed public access -- that have refused to allow [the] harvest of timber," Zinke told Breitbart Monday. On Sunday, Zinke said that the wildfires had "nothing to do with climate change" in an interview with local news station KCRA-TV. He suggested that environmental groups had prevented timber salvage operations, meaning that forests could not be cleared of flammable detritus."I've heard the climate change argument back and forth. This has nothing to do with climate change. This has to do with active forest management," Zinke said. President Trump tweeted earlier in August that California wildfires were made "so much worse" by "bad environmental laws," and called for clearing trees to prevent fires. The Mendocino Complex Fire north of San Francisco is the largest wildfire in state history and has scorched over 400 square miles. More than 14,000 firefighters are responding to over a dozen major blazes throughout California.	False
866	RT	questionable_source	2017-08-30	It added it was "taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment."	"Actions were taken to minimize emissions and to restore the refinery to normal operations."	In this case, it caused product to spill to the ground.	Exxon said it would "conduct an assessment to determine the impact of the storm once it's safe to do so," the Washington Post reports.	The refinery reported two controlled emission release events, which included carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and benzene being released into the atmosphere.		Texas air pollution sensors switched off as refineries seep toxic chemicals into air & water US crude oil and petrochemical refining capacity in Texas has been severely damaged by Hurricane Harvey, releasing hazardous pollutants into the air and flood waters left in the wake of the storm. Arkema, a global chemical major, warned Wednesday that flooding has severely damaged their Houston plant's refrigeration systems, increasing the likelihood of an explosion in the coming week and a heightened risk of yet more pollutants leaking into the ecosystem." t this time, while we do not believe there is any imminent danger, the potential for a chemical reaction leading to a fire and/or explosion within the site confines is real," Arkema said in a statement. Oil giant Exxon Mobil is among the companies to report incidents of emissions released at its refineries as a result of the hurricane which ransacked coastal parts of Texas and caused widespread flooding in the country's fourth biggest city, Houston. However, the true extent of the air pollution will prove hard to determine for some time after the storm subsides as The Texas Council on Environmental Quality shut down all of its air quality monitors in the Houston area, according to the Houston Press. This effectively means the affected companies can report whatever they wish without any oversight from the state regulators. Texas is also home to several so-called superfund sites, designated areas of extreme pollution "which warrant further investigation" according to the Environmental Protection Agency. As shown in the before and after maps below, the vast majority of these toxic sites are now flooded in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey. On Wednesday, Saudi-owned Motiva shuttered its refinery in Port Arthur, Texas, the largest facility in the US, which normally produces 600,000 barrels a day. At least 13 other refineries in the area closed as a result of Harvey, the US Department of Energy reported, while others are operating at limited capacity. Exxon admitted there were issues at its plants in a regulatory filing to the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality. Its Baytown refinery near Houston, the second-largest in the country, was shutdown on Sunday as Harvey moved inland. The refinery reported two controlled emission release events, which included carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and benzene being released into the atmosphere. The chemicals and pollutants released from refineries and plants in Texas' petrochemical hub are known to have a damaging effect on the environment and could pose a risk of contaminating floodwaters left in the hurricane's wake. The petrochemical Benzene, a carcinogen and major component in fossil fuels, reduces red and white blood cell production and decreases auto-immune cell function following prolonged exposure. While other emissions, including, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides are particle-forming air pollutants that contribute to cardiopulmonary health issues, like lung cancer, bronchitis and emphysema. In a third reported incident since Harvey made landfall in Texas, Exxon said a floating roof over a tank in its Baytown refinery sank as a result of the rain, causing unusually high levels of emissions to be released. Floating roofs are common in oil tanks and are a way to control how much oil is lost to evaporation by allowing the roof to move based on the amount of liquid in the tank. Exxon said it would "conduct an assessment to determine the impact of the storm once it's safe to do so," the Washington Post reports. The company said it needed to make repairs on the tank, which would involve first emptying it, though Exxon could not confirm in what time frame. One of the company's other facilities, in Beaumont, east of Houston, also released 1,300lbs of sulphur dioxide in one hour on Sunday, exceeding its allocated emissions limit by a factor of ten to one." xcess emissions occurred during an upset on the Sulfur Plant Thermal Oxidizer," Exxon said in the report." he unit was stabilized. No impact to the community has been reported," the company said. "Actions were taken to minimize emissions and to restore the refinery to normal operations." Petrochemical giant Chevron Phillips reported an estimated 776,000 pounds of combined chemicals released from its Cedar Bayou plant in Baytown as part of its plant shutdown. Kinder Morgan, the largest energy infrastructure company in North America, stores petroleum products for companies such as Chevron and Shell at its terminal in Pasadena, Harris. It reported 394,000 pounds of combined hazardous chemicals on Sunday and Monday, also as a result of a malfunctioning floating roof. In this case, it caused product to spill to the ground. Kinder Morgan said it will "attempt to safely land roof of Tank 150-39 and remove product when conditions are safe." It added it was "taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment." Almost one third of US oil refining capacity is located on the Gulf Coast. The US produces about 17.5 million barrels of oil per day. According to oil market analysts cited by CNBC, about 20 percent of the country's oil refining operations are out of service. Ships carrying crude oil from the Mexican Gulf are not able to port in the area due to swelling waters caused by Harvey, resulting in a backlog of ships waiting to dock and unload their cargo. The Gulf of Mexico accounts for close to 20 percent of total US crude oil production. CNBC estimates the port closures cost roughly $350 million a day. The port hold-up also affects the amount of crude oil refineries have access to once they return to full operation. Gas prices across the US have already risen to a two-year high, with the increase likely to hit consumers at the pump in a week. It is unknown how long the refineries will remain out of production, as the extent of flood damage is not yet known. Following Hurricane Katrina in 2005, refineries in the area didn't return to normal production capacity for two months.	False
713	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-08-07	Consequently, Pruitt's rollbacks, suspensions or delays, if allowed to persist and expand, will lead loss and deprivation of American lives, including children – the future of our country – thereby increasing healthcare costs, family anguish and other disruptions of "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness."	When you go through the list of health standards slated for Pruitt's abolition, you wonder whether there are any limits to his cold-blooded, corporatized agenda.	His tenure thus far at the EPA is the stuff of corporate wish lists: meeting privately with the worst industrial perpetrators of silent violence (charitably described as "pollution") and huddling with industry lobbyists and corporate lawyers who are eager for Pruitt to dismantle his own agency ― the federal manager of environmental violence to air, water, soil and food.	Pruitt is extinguishing life-saving and disease-preventing health standards that were vetted in open procedures, that were open to input by the commercial interested affected – which usually leads to diluting the final regulation – and which have solid scientific basis to protect vulnerable populations.	Pruitt's fevered mind thinks like this: Climate change is a hoax.		Preparing For The Impeachment Of Scott Pruitt: An Open Letter To Members Of Congress In his five months as EPA Administrator, former Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt is an aggregating impeachable offense, ever giving fuller meaning to Alexander Hamilton's Federalist 65 elaboration of what constitutes "high crimes and misdemeanors," to wit: Impeachable offenses arise from the "abuse or violation of some public trust" and "relate chiefly to injuries done immediately to the society itself." Riding into office on the back of 14 lawsuits he filed against the EPA, Pruitt took his oath of office to uphold the laws of the land and promptly proceeded to do just the opposite. Using the mantra of "states' rights" as his corporate fig leaf and wildly accusing EPA scientists of being unscientific, he has moved to "undo, delay or otherwise block more than 30 environmental rules," according to the July 1, 2017 New York Times. His tenure thus far at the EPA is the stuff of corporate wish lists: meeting privately with the worst industrial perpetrators of silent violence (charitably described as "pollution") and huddling with industry lobbyists and corporate lawyers who are eager for Pruitt to dismantle his own agency ― the federal manager of environmental violence to air, water, soil and food. Mr. Pruitt makes himself vulnerable, with all the ex parte contacts and corporate advisors to many serious offenses, including: a) violation of the procedures of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, b) conflict of interest rules, c) violation of both criminal and civil laws by the overreaching industry lobbyists who constitute Pruitt's tight cadre of clenched-jawed political appointees. History provides precedents of how the boundless zealotry of new wrecking crews ultimately leads to self-inflicted wounds and scandals. Republicans in the House of Representatives are quite familiar with trying to impeach a civil officer. For many months prior to the November election, they were hounding, with baseless impeachment threats, John Koskinen, then-director of the IRS and one of the most honorable civil servants in a generation. So fervid and ill-tempered was their partisan zeal that they also took it out on the IRS's budget, already lower than it was several years earlier, and cut it further to the bone. This fulminating vendetta, widely reported, has led to millions of taxpayers waiting on the phone with the IRS to get served or not be served at all. Most ironically, the Republicans assured that the woefully understaffed IRS could collect even less of the estimated $350 billion in annual unpaid taxes, thereby expanding the federal deficit they so often decry for political expediency. Pruitt, like most captured corporatists, has ignored the objections to his policies from the 15,000 employees of the EPA, hoping that many will leave the agency and further weaken the environmental health and safety efforts that he abhors. He doesn't want them around because he cannot rebut their scientific arguments for retaining existing standards, which would protect our environment from deadly toxins. He is also hostile to the "precautionary principle" which shifts the burden of proof to the progenitors of new chemical or particulate or gas into the environment. When you go through the list of health standards slated for Pruitt's abolition, you wonder whether there are any limits to his cold-blooded, corporatized agenda. So extreme is his corporate ardor that there will undoubtedly be lawless actions coming from his precipitous acts – which he rightly believes will not be subject to restraint from the Trump White House or the Republican-controlled Congress. Pruitt's fevered mind thinks like this: Climate change is a hoax. Methane gas, which is 40 times more harmful to global warming than carbon dioxide, should not be subject to the modest Obama-era required disclosures. The industries that are most responsible for pollution should be in charge of their own enforcement. The EPA's already grossly inadequate budget should be cut further. Attempts to curb pollution in our air and waterways should be revoked. Pesticides like chlorpyrifos, found to be dangerous after years of study, should be pushed back for 'reconsideration' – in short to be shelved. Rules on methane leaks from drilling oil and gas wells should be obstructed through delays or revision. Pruitt had a private meeting with corporate lobbyists at Trump International Hotel, which is a venue for recurring violations of the Emoluments Clause due to its Trump-enriching expenditures by foreign interests. That's when you know that the officious Pruitt doesn't even care about appearances, much less the perils of lawless and secretive influence-peddling that enriches President Trump's investments. Members of Congress – Democratic and Republican – must ensure accountability for this rogue administrator. Take close note of his non-compliance with the Administrative Procedure Act and keep in mind that political ideologies will not protect your children or vulnerable relatives and friends form environmental toxins. Conservative lungs and other bodily organs are as vulnerable to pollution-bred terminal ailments and the violent effects of climate change, as their liberal counterparts. Let's be clear about what is at issue here. Pruitt is extinguishing life-saving and disease-preventing health standards that were vetted in open procedures, that were open to input by the commercial interested affected – which usually leads to diluting the final regulation – and which have solid scientific basis to protect vulnerable populations. Consequently, Pruitt's rollbacks, suspensions or delays, if allowed to persist and expand, will lead loss and deprivation of American lives, including children – the future of our country – thereby increasing healthcare costs, family anguish and other disruptions of "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." Pruitt and his cohorts are a clear and present danger to America. He will demonstrate in the coming weeks and months how deserving he is of impeachment in the House of Representatives and conviction in the U.S. Senate. That is, if he doesn't resign or be forced to resign due to his own cruelty, recklessness and running afoul of the law.	False
367	nationalreview	right_bias	2018-03-28	First, unlike smoking, energy is a basic good.	But the phenomenon is primarily a California-centric one.	In North Carolina v. Tennessee Valley Authority, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit dismissed a common-law nuisance action on the grounds that "there is a distinction between an activity that is merely not illegal versus one that is explicitly granted a permit to operate in a particular fashion."	As David Bookbinder at the Niskanen Center notes, while all of the complaints are grounded in the energy companies' alleged accountability for rising sea levels, they fall into two essential categories.	This is the usual category for environmental-harm suits, the same legal theory by which localities have sued over lead pollution, water pollution, and the like.		Energy Companies Sued for Being Energy Companies Lawsuits are a poor way to make the tradeoff between abundant energy and environmental harm. Numerous jurisdictions are suing energy companies. Not for fraud or white-collar crime, but for the effects of climate change. Bill de Blasio, mayor of New York, recently added his city to the list — and also started to divest the city's pension funds from fossil-fuel companies. But the phenomenon is primarily a California-centric one. In an address at SXSW earlier this month, even Arnold Schwarzenegger joined the fray. Presumably, this will soon be a cause célèbre. But it is unlikely to succeed, and lawsuits are a poor way to address the environmental harms of energy production anyhow. As David Bookbinder at the Niskanen Center notes, while all of the complaints are grounded in the energy companies' alleged accountability for rising sea levels, they fall into two essential categories. San Francisco and Oakland allege "public nuisance," and are suing to win compensation for that nuisance. This is the usual category for environmental-harm suits, the same legal theory by which localities have sued over lead pollution, water pollution, and the like. It was also the basis for the successful legal action taken against lead-paint producers in the same area. According to Bookbinder the claim "simply requires demonstrating that the defendant contributed to a condition that constitutes an unreasonable interference with public rights." The other plaintiffs — namely, San Mateo County, Marin County, and Imperial Beach — are employing a much more scattershot strategy, not only in the number of defendants that they name (nearly 40), but in alleging "design defect, failure to warn, negligence, and trespass" in addition to public nuisance. This approach gives juries multiple routes to a ruling against the energy companies, but it could backfire, with so many claims being made against such a wide variety of defendants that none of the blows really land. So what's the problem? The Union of Concerned Scientists, the activist group that has spearheaded this push for legal action, has compared energy companies' behavior with that of tobacco companies decades ago. The comparison reveals two fundamental issues with the suits. First, unlike smoking, energy is a basic good. Some form of energy is necessary to do just about anything, including to meet essential needs such as heating or cooling a home (which in some places is a genuine safety issue). There is an inherent tradeoff between affordable energy and environmental harm, and it makes no sense to ask judges and juries rather than elected legislators to strike the right balance. Second, a key allegation against cigarette companies was that they hid and denied the harms of smoking, but the parallel allegations against the energy companies are contradictory. We are expected to believe that energy companies covered up the damage done by fossil fuels — and yet publicly available, industry-funded research is cited as evidence that the companies were aware of the harms they were causing. For instance, San Mateo County's lawsuit notes that Exxon made its climate findings public in peer-reviewed science journals by 1982. Another obstacle is the fact that energy companies have government-granted permits to do what they do, a fact that some courts have found highly relevant. In North Carolina v. Tennessee Valley Authority, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit dismissed a common-law nuisance action on the grounds that "there is a distinction between an activity that is merely not illegal versus one that is explicitly granted a permit to operate in a particular fashion." The opinion further notes, citing New England Legal Foundation v. Costle, that "courts traditionally have been reluctant to enjoin as a public nuisance activities which have been considered and specifically authorized by the government." Local lawsuits also struggle to address the global scope of the climate-change problem. According to a study that is often drawn upon to make the case for liability, the two largest contributors to the rise in CO2 emissions since 1980 are Saudi Aramco and Gazprom: the state-owned oil companies of Saudi Arabia and Russia. The initial San Mateo suit did name Statoil, a company majority-owned by the Norwegian government, as a defendant, but even this was dropped in an effort to keep the case in state, as opposed to federal, court. As the eminent legal scholar Richard Epstein puts it, "If you're going to need a system of regulation, you can do that in a thousand different ways, but erratic, independent lawsuits in separate courts by separate people is the wrong way to go." This approach is likely to cause backlash that derails real, sustainable reforms to protect the environment.	False
44	thedailycaller	right_bias	2019-03-13	org.	(RELATED: Thousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests)"We have the right to live our dreams and hopes," the letter continues.	org, an international environmental group, is helping bolster the strike with its own promotional video.	"Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world.	Now we will make our voices heard."350.		Kids Around The World Are Using Climate Change As An Excuse To Skip School Young students across the world plan to skip class on Friday, claiming that they will devote the day to protesting man-made climate change. Students from more than 70 countries will skip class on Friday, March 15 to demand that their governments take more action on addressing climate change, according to #FridaysForFuture, a youth-led movement that is behind the strike. Tens of thousands of students will reportedly take part in the event." e will no longer accept this injustice. We demand justice for all past, current and future victims of the climate crisis, and so we are rising up," read an open letter that the activists published on the Guardian, claiming they would be protesting on "every continent" on Friday. "Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world. Now we will make our voices heard."350. org, an international environmental group, is helping bolster the strike with its own promotional video. Activists are hoping to closely mirror the youth-led March For Our Lives protests in Washington, D.C., which took place nearly a year ago following the fatal Parkland, Florida school shooting, and spark more debate among lawmakers about the dangers of climate change. Activists in the U.S. are making similar demands that are found in Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's Green New Deal: a swift transition to 100 percent renewable energy, a complete abolition of fossil fuels and other environmental mandates. The group strongly references the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's 2018 report, which claims the world only has a few year to dramatically reduce carbon emissions or else face dire environmental consequences. (RELATED: Thousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests)"We have the right to live our dreams and hopes," the letter continues. "Climate change is already happening. People did die, are dying and will die because of it, but we can and will stop this madness." The protesters in Washington, D.C., will enjoy the presence of one well-known adult figure: Minnesota Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar. The freshman Democrat, who has made national headlines recently for a slew of anti-Semitic remarks, says she will attend the strike along with her 16-year old daughter, Isra Hirsi, an organizer of the protest. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
331	theblaze	right_bias	2018-11-09	However, Morris argued that the department had not given a "reasoned explanation" for how it came to this conclusion.	Morris had ruled in August that the State Department had to reach a conclusion on the environmental impacts of the pipeline, but determined Thursday that the department's analysis had left out information he considered to be crucial.	These omissions require a remand with instructions to the Department to satisfy its obligations under NEPA," Morris wrote.	He also accused the State Department of using  "outdated information" about potential environmental impacts instead of "the best scientific and commercial data available."	In a 54-page decision, Judge Brian Morris of the U.S. District Court in Montana granted an injunction to the Indigenous Environmental Network and Northern Plains Resource Council against the U.S. State Department, the TransCanada Keystone Pipeline, and the TransCanada Corporation.		Federal judge blocks Keystone XL pipeline A federal judge blocked construction on the Keystone XL pipeline on Thursday. In a 54-page decision, Judge Brian Morris of the U.S. District Court in Montana granted an injunction to the Indigenous Environmental Network and Northern Plains Resource Council against the U.S. State Department, the TransCanada Keystone Pipeline, and the TransCanada Corporation. TransCanada is blocked from "engaging in any activity in furtherance of the construction or operation of Keystone and associated facilities" until the State Department can confirm that doing so would not violate the Administrative Procedure Act or the National Environmental Policy Act. Morris had ruled in August that the State Department had to reach a conclusion on the environmental impacts of the pipeline, but determined Thursday that the department's analysis had left out information he considered to be crucial. He also accused the State Department of using  "outdated information" about potential environmental impacts instead of "the best scientific and commercial data available." These omissions require a remand with instructions to the Department to satisfy its obligations under NEPA," Morris wrote. In its initial report, the State Department had said that any climate related impacts from the pipeline "would prove inconsequential." However, Morris argued that the department had not given a "reasoned explanation" for how it came to this conclusion. TransCanada has claimed that the pipeline would result in few oil spills by decreasing the amount of oil being transported by rail, and lower greenhouse gas emissions by lowering the amount of oil being transported by ocean tanker. If constructed, the Keystone XL Pipeline would stretch from Hardisty, Alberta, to Nebraska, where it would connect to an existing pipeline going to the Gulf Coast. In November 2015, former President Barack Obama's administration blocked the pipeline's construction, citing potential environmental impact. Two days after taking office, President Donald Trump signed an executive order reauthorizing the pipeline.	False
576	dailymail	questionable_source	2018-12-03	Climate Change.	It found that 2018 is on course to be the 4th warmest year on record and we're the 'last generation to be able to do something about it'.	'The Paris agreement sent a shiver down the spine of institutional investors globally and made them question if they were exposed to stranded assets and whether these political leaders were really serious about climate change,' said Joseph Curtin, a senior fellow at the IIEA.	It read: 'What ministers and other leaders say and do in Katowice at COP24 will help determine efforts for years to come and either bring the world closer to meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement - including protecting those most vulnerable to climate change - or push action further down the road.	This gathering has been pegged as the most influential since the 2015 ratification of the Paris Agreement.		Trump's words and actions threaten to derail climate change efforts Donald Trump is threatening to derail climate change efforts with his persistent denial of global warming, claim scientists. Pulling the US from the Paris Agreement has opened the flood gates as several others, including Russia and Turkey, follow his lead. Trump removed the US, the second greatest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the world, from the Paris Agreement as one of his first major presidential acts. One expert has published a study and said that the withdrawal of the US from the 2015 Paris Agreement as well as Trump's ill-informed remarks on climate change could have long-lasting and severe ramifications.A United Nations-sponsored climate summit in Poland has kicked off today which brings together experts from around the world as leading figures in the UN claim our planet has reached a 'crossroads'. They say the next two years are crucial to our success if we are to successfully halt global warming.A study, from the Institute of International and European Affairs, says Trump's decision has created the 'moral and political cover for others to follow suit' in leaving the agreement. It also claims it has soured the atmosphere and damaged goodwill in the international arena.'The Paris agreement sent a shiver down the spine of institutional investors globally and made them question if they were exposed to stranded assets and whether these political leaders were really serious about climate change,' said Joseph Curtin, a senior fellow at the IIEA.'There's absolutely no doubt that the Trump effect has created a sense of uncertainty in terms of the political commitment to achieve anything close to a 2°C target.'The Paris Agreement, which was first signed in 2015, is an international agreement to control and limit climate change. It hopes to hold the increase in the global average temperature to below 2°C (3.6°F) 'and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C (2.7°F)'Sir David Attenborough will be in attendance in the 'people's seat' to represent the people who are affected by global warming. He gave a speech at the opening ceremony of the summit and said: ''We are facing a man-made disaster of global scale.'Our greatest threat in thousands of years. Climate Change.'The Conference of the Parties (COP) comes shortly after the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) announced the intention to limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C. This gathering has been pegged as the most influential since the 2015 ratification of the Paris Agreement. It claimed that to achieve this goal, governments around the world would have to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 45 per cent by 2030. Four influential previous presidents of the talks called for decisive action to reach these targets. They said the planet sits at a 'crossroads' and urged action to cut emissions and reach Paris targets. Antonio Guterres, UN Secretary-General, said this period of time is 'a matter of life and death' for countries around the world.A statement from the former chiefs came a day before the summit was scheduled to begin and is a highly unusual move. It earmarked the next two years as a key opportunity to help halt climate change. It read: 'What ministers and other leaders say and do in Katowice at COP24 will help determine efforts for years to come and either bring the world closer to meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement - including protecting those most vulnerable to climate change - or push action further down the road.'Any delay will only make it harder and more expensive to respond to climate change.'The statement was issued by Frank Bainimarama of Fiji, Salaheddine Mezouar of Morocco, Laurent Fabius of France and Manuel Pulgar Vidal of Peru. In a report released ahead of the climate summit in Poland, the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) pointed out that the 20 warmest years on record have been in the past 22 years. It found that 2018 is on course to be the 4th warmest year on record and we're the 'last generation to be able to do something about it'. The UN agency said in its provisional report that 'the past four years - 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 - are also the four warmest years in the series'.	False
450	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-05-24	Ignore," distort, or censor.	Three options were reportedly presented in the memo: The first was to conduct  "red team/blue team" debates to "highlight uncertainties" in climate data; the second was to review scientific studies under the Administrative Procedure Act; and the final option was to simply "ignore, and not seek to characterize or question, the science being conducted by Federal agencies and outside entities."	We need a vision and a plan to #ActOnClimate, not willful ignorance.	Those are the options the Trump White House is considering to deal with the overwhelming consensus on climate change.	The report's lead researcher had earlier accused the Trump administration of attempting to censor the study by removing all mentions of human-caused climate change."		White House Officials Reportedly Considered Just 'Ignoring' New Climate Research The Trump administration spent time last year mulling over what its public position on climate science should be — and, according to a report published Wednesday by The Washington Post, outrightly "ignoring" new research was one option that officials considered. Citing an internal memo drafted in September by President Donald Trump's then-top energy and environmental aide, Michael Catanzaro, the Post reported that White House officials had discussed whether to "consider having a firm position on and a coherent, fact-based message about climate science ― specifically, whether, and to what extent, anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases are affecting the climate system, and what level of concern that warrants." Three options were reportedly presented in the memo: The first was to conduct  "red team/blue team" debates to "highlight uncertainties" in climate data; the second was to review scientific studies under the Administrative Procedure Act; and the final option was to simply "ignore, and not seek to characterize or question, the science being conducted by Federal agencies and outside entities." No formal policy ever did materialize from the memo or subsequent discussions on the issue. Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt was reportedly an advocate of holding "red team/blue team" debates to publicly critique climate science, but that idea was ultimately blocked by the White House, reported The New York Times in March. As the Post noted, the Catanzaro memo offers a glimpse into the challenges faced by the Trump administration on the issue of climate change. While White House officials continue to publicly downplay climate data and adopt policies to expand fossil fuel production in the U.S., federal agencies have continued to publish research showing that climate change is real, man-made and a growing threat to the U.S. On Friday, for instance, the National Park Service published a report that said the effects of climate change, like rising sea levels and intensifying storms, could damage park sites across the country. The report's lead researcher had earlier accused the Trump administration of attempting to censor the study by removing all mentions of human-caused climate change." gnoring the overwhelming evidence only sets us back further in addressing this serious threat," said Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.)." Ignore," distort, or censor. Those are the options the Trump White House is considering to deal with the overwhelming consensus on climate change. Unacceptable and immoral. We need a vision and a plan to #ActOnClimate, not willful ignorance.  — Senator Jeff Merkley (@SenJeffMerkley) May 24, 2018	False
545	yahoonews	left_center_bias	2018-08-07	We'd even settle for a coherent policy to tackle it, rather than make it worse," Poole told Yahoo News.	We asked why Trump was saying that the state's water is being redirecting into the ocean and where that idea originated."	I don't know what he's getting at.	cannot speak to that.	Jerry Brown in a series of tweets."		Cal Fire official on Trump&apos;s wildfire theories: &apos;I don't know what he&apos;s getting at&apos; President Trump's claim that California's environmental policies are preventing firefighters from accessing enough water to stop the state's wildfires has been roundly dismissed by experts and state officials. Windy conditions and high heat expanded the Mendocino Complex Fire to 290,692 acres by Tuesday morning, making it the largest wildfire in the state's history, destroying some 75 homes and forcing thousands to evacuate. Seven other major wildfires are burning in California, from Shasta County to San Bernardino County, at the same time. Trump made the dubious claim that "readily available water" is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean for environmental reasons and blamed California Gov. Jerry Brown in a series of tweets." alifornia wildfires are being magnified & made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amounts of readily available water to be properly utilized. It is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire from spreading!" Trump tweeted on Monday. Yahoo News reached out to Scott McLean, a deputy chief at the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (Cal Fire), to get the agency's take on Trump's claims and what's actually happening in the efforts to stop the Mendocino Complex and other wildfires. He outright rejected the assertion that firefighters do not have enough water to handle the current wildfires." o, that is untrue. There are bodies of water. There are lakes near the Carr Fire: the Shasta Lake, the Whiskeytown Lake that's surrounded by the fire, Trinity Lake — we have plenty of water, Sacramento River is just to the east," McLean said. "On your Mendocino Complex, it's wrapped around Clear Lake. It's got Mendocino Lake, Berryessa Lake, and it has a river close by, so there are absolutely no water issues." We asked why Trump was saying that the state's water is being redirecting into the ocean and where that idea originated."  cannot speak to that. I don't know what he's getting at. I have no idea," McLean said. He added that California's water policy has had "no effect to our water supply." On top of calling climate change a hoax, Trump has been critical of the U.S. Forest Service's forest fire prevention campaign with Smokey Bear. Kate Poole, the senior director of the Natural Resources Defense Council's (NRDC) water division, said it's hard to know where to begin in responding to Trump's tweets because they're fundamentally wrong on many levels. She said the firefighters have plenty of water, adding that the fires are a manifestation of the effects of climate change." hese fires are what it means in the West to live with higher temperatures, less snowpack and more frequent and intense droughts. All of those problems are a result of climate change. Where's the president's outrage about that? We'd even settle for a coherent policy to tackle it, rather than make it worse," Poole told Yahoo News. She said Trump, in complaining about water "diverted" to the Pacific, seems to not understand that rivers flow downhill toward the ocean. On the contrary, she said, California diverts so much water from its natural path and into artificial canals that many miles of rivers have dried up completely. She said this caused ecological collapse in the San Francisco Bay-Delta estuary, the largest estuary on the west coast of the Americas.	False
738	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-04-27	This is the biggest test facing human civilization and we have to respond and win this battle."	"This is not a red or a blue issue," he said.	At the rally, Markey said Trump's actions were precisely why hundreds of thousands of people felt compelled to take to the streets."	Climate change is real."	r President, start listening to the people and the scientists, not the greed of the fossil fuel industry," Sanders said at a rally on Capitol Hill, where he was flanked by environmental advocates and two of his Democratic colleagues, Senators Jeff Merkley of Oregon, who authored the bill, and Ed Markey of Massachusetts."		Bernie Sanders takes aim at Trump on climate ahead of march in DC As protesters prepare for nationwide demonstrations against Donald Trump's environmental agenda, Bernie Sanders on Thursday backed legislation that would phase out the use of fossil fuels in the US by 2050." r President, start listening to the people and the scientists, not the greed of the fossil fuel industry," Sanders said at a rally on Capitol Hill, where he was flanked by environmental advocates and two of his Democratic colleagues, Senators Jeff Merkley of Oregon, who authored the bill, and Ed Markey of Massachusetts." s you all know," the Vermont senator and former presidential candidate told the crowd, "Donald Trump is wrong about a lot of things. But there is no area where he is more wrong than on the issue of climate change." Sanders added: "No, Mr President, climate change is not a hoax. Climate change is real." At the event, held just outside the US Capitol, Sanders, Merkley and Markey unveiled legislation which seeks to completely phase out the use of fossil fuels through a transition to 100% clean and renewable energy by the middle of this century. But the bill, called the 100 by '50 Act, is unlikely to be considered by a Republican-controlled Congress, where many GOP lawmakers are still unwilling to acknowledge the science behind global warming and contribution of human activity. The partisan nature of the debate was not lost on the audience, as one attendee interrupted the proceedings to ask: "Where are the Republicans?""We're going to have to recruit those colleagues across the aisle," said Merkley, who ranks among the Senate's most progressive voices. "This is not a red or a blue issue," he said. "There is no excuse for failure. This is the biggest test facing human civilization and we have to respond and win this battle." Demonstrators are set to gather in Washington for the People's Climate March on Saturday, which will also mark the 100th day of the Trump administration. Similar marches are expected in major cities across the US, as part of a broader effort to oppose Trump's efforts to roll back the climate initiatives put in place by Barack Obama. The president has signaled his intentions to tear up the landmark Paris climate agreement, forged by more than 195 nations in late 2015, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 26 to 28% over a decade. Trump's top aides, who are split on whether or not the US should remain part of the Paris accord, were scheduled to meet on Thursday afternoon to discuss the deal's future. Trump's chief of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, is a vocal proponent of pulling out immediately. Trump has vowed to withdraw from the Paris agreement, and has already taken steps through executive action to begin the process of overturning Obama-era environmental regulations. Among them was a directive to the EPA to dismantle the Clean Power Plan, one of Obama's signature climate policies to reduce carbon pollution from power plants. Trump also signed an executive order that aims to unravel the Obama rule designed to protect American waterways from pollution, and proposed in his budget draconian cuts to the EPA. At the rally, Markey said Trump's actions were precisely why hundreds of thousands of people felt compelled to take to the streets." onald Trump [is] still saying that he's going to issue a new executive order allowing for more oil drilling on the public lands of the United States of America," he said, drawing jeers for the president from the crowd. "That is just completely and totally unacceptable."	False
516	bbc	left_center_bias	2018-07-20	Mr Dreher says that the ESA was designed by Congress to say that "the value of life on earth is priceless" and that politicians should not have to decide whether it is "too expensive" to prevent extinction."	The proposed change to the ESA includes a narrowing of the definition of "foreseeable future".	Who knows what a frog is worth?"	Because who knows what a snail is worth?	In a significant reversal, the proposed change would eliminate language that precludes wildlife experts from considering economic impacts when determining when an organism should be listed.		The cost of Trump's Endangered Species Act proposal The Trump administration has proposed changes to the Endangered Species Act (ESA), a law credited with keeping hundreds of species from going extinct. The change would eliminate automatic protections for threatened plant and animal species, and make it easier for species to be removed from the list. Wildlife conservation groups say the proposed change could have disastrous lasting effects on at-risk species. Trump officials say the change will streamline the regulatory process. The proposed change is the latest in a series of White House efforts to remove environmental regulations designed to protect vulnerable species and their habitats, as well as leave untouched some of America's most wild places. Environmentalist groups have reacted with outrage, and the Center for Biological Diversity said "these proposals would slam a wrecking ball into the most crucial protections for our most endangered wildlife"." If these regulations had been in place in the 1970s, the bald eagle and the grey whale would be extinct today." The Endangered Species Act was signed into law in 1973 by Republican President Richard Nixon and now protects more than 1,200 plant and animal species. The list of species is maintained by US Fish and Wildlife and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which oversees marine species. It has been credited with reviving bald eagle populations and bringing the Yellowstone grizzly bear back from the edge of extinction. Here are several species that could be affected by the change, or may not currently exist if it was not for the landmark law. Experts agree that arctic sea ice - which polar bears require for fishing and hunting - is shrinking, which is leading to enormous stresses on the world's largest bear species. The proposed change to the ESA includes a narrowing of the definition of "foreseeable future". The US government says they want the language clarified to "make it clear that it extends only as far as [wildlife officials] can reasonably determine that both the future threats and the species' response to those threats are probable". Environmentalists fear the new language will make it possible for government biologists to disregard the long-term effects of climate change on the environment. The polar bear could be emblematic of many species being affected by climate change, says Bob Dreher of the environmental group Defenders of Wildlife. Whether government biologists will recognise "this slow-acting but inevitable change in ecosystem because of climate change" or wait until more evidence is available is unclear, he tells the BBC. The ESA provides blanket protections to species which are categorised as either "threatened" - such as the California gnatcatcher - or "endangered". Endangered species are those likely to go extinct, while threatened species are those likely to become endangered. Under current law, both are granted "critical habitat" protections, but the Trump administration wants automatic protections for threatened species to be eliminated and, in the future, to be considered on a case by case basis. Protections for the California gnatcatcher have barred development across nearly 100,000 acres of land in the Greater Los Angeles area, according to the Los Angeles Times. If not for their current protections, their native habitat would likely become part of more urban sprawl. The sage grouse has been a candidate for protection as a threatened species for nearly a decade, but it is unclear if it will ever be added. They, as well as the dunes sagebrush lizard, have seen their territory encroached upon by human development and have seen decreasing populations in recent years. The distinctive sage grouse return to their breeding grounds, known as Leks, every year. Biologists believe some Leks can be hundreds of years old. If the sage grouse does achieve threatened status, environmentalists fear under the new Trump proposal it would be too late for them to gain the broad protections they need. Although the proposed change would only affect future creatures joining the list, Mr Dreher says that if the proposed rules had been in effect in the 1970s, animals such as wolves and bald eagles may have been extinct by now. In a significant reversal, the proposed change would eliminate language that precludes wildlife experts from considering economic impacts when determining when an organism should be listed. Wolves, which were re-introduced in the lower 48 states, have faced criticism from ranchers and farmers who argue that they have impacted their livelihood by killing their livestock. Re-introducing them to the continental US came at great cost and effort, says Mr Dreher, a former US Fish and Wildlife official. Mr Dreher says that the ESA was designed by Congress to say that "the value of life on earth is priceless" and that politicians should not have to decide whether it is "too expensive" to prevent extinction." If we made those decisions you can see under different administrations we would end up protecting nothing. Because who knows what a snail is worth? Who knows what a frog is worth?"	False
789	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-04-29	As EPA renews its commitment to human health and clean air, land and water, our website needs to reflect the views of the leadership of the agency," said JP Freire, an associate administrator for public affairs.	In an op-ed piece for the Guardian published on Saturday, Sanders made an economic case for a focus on industries meant to ameliorate the effects of climate change, rather than those which contribute to it.	e want to eliminate confusion," Freire said, "by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how we're protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law."	At the marquee climate protest, the People's Climate March in Washington, tens of thousands made their way down Pennsylvania Avenue in sweltering heat on their way to encircle the White House.	Previously, the website housed data on greenhouse gas emissions from large polluters and reports on the effects of climate change and its impact on human health."		EPA wipes its climate change site as protesters march in Washington The US Environmental Protection Agency's main climate change website is "undergoing changes" to better reflect "the agency's new direction" under Donald Trump. The announcement, made late on Friday evening, left empty what was previously the "official government site" providing "comprehensive information on the issue of climate change and global warming". The change came a day before thousands gathered in Washington DC and other US cities to protest about inaction on climate change, and hours before the symbolic 100-day mark of the Trump administration. At the marquee climate protest, the People's Climate March in Washington, tens of thousands made their way down Pennsylvania Avenue in sweltering heat on their way to encircle the White House. Organizers said about 300 sister marches or rallies were being held around the country, including in Seattle, Boston and San Francisco. In Chicago, marchers headed from the city's federal plaza to Trump Tower. In Denver, marchers were met with a dose of spring snow. Some of the marches drew celebrity attendees, including former vice-president Al Gore and actor Leonardo DiCaprio in the capital and senator and former candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination Bernie Sanders at an event in Montpelier, Vermont." onored to join Indigenous leaders and native peoples as they fight for climate justice," DiCaprio tweeted. Any marchers who used their phones to look at the EPA climate change website would have been greeted with a message from the new administration: "This page is being updated." As EPA renews its commitment to human health and clean air, land and water, our website needs to reflect the views of the leadership of the agency," said JP Freire, an associate administrator for public affairs. Previously, the website housed data on greenhouse gas emissions from large polluters and reports on the effects of climate change and its impact on human health." e want to eliminate confusion," Freire said, "by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how we're protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law." Information from previous administrations is archived as a link from the EPA's website. The EPA is currently led by Scott Pruitt, a former Oklahoma attorney general who has denied that carbon dioxide causes global warming. The Trump administration has called for budget cuts of nearly one-third at the EPA and has sought to weaken protections for human health. For instance, the White House has proposed cutting funding and regulations regarding lead poisoning prevention and is considering rewriting regulations concerning smog. It has already rolled back a law that prevented coalmining companies from dumping waste in streams. In an op-ed piece for the Guardian published on Saturday, Sanders made an economic case for a focus on industries meant to ameliorate the effects of climate change, rather than those which contribute to it. The senator from Vermont wrote: "No matter what agenda President Trump and his administration of climate deniers push, it is clear that jobs in clean energy like wind and solar are growing much more rapidly than jobs in the coal, oil and gas sectors."	False
310	dailymail	questionable_source	2019-06-27	'Americans want reliable energy that they can afford,' he said at a news conference.	Despite this, a report from the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) said that the trend could potentially extend into the month of May.	The trend will happen sporadically throughout the next several years, says the IEEFA, as renewable energy becomes cheaper and the world's attention focuses on mitigating the effects of carbon-fueled climate change by turning away from fossil fuels.	Growth in both solar and wind power has been particularly stark with the former producing 48 times more electricity than it did a decade ago due to cheaper equipment and government incentives.	Coupled with a rise in renewables has been a trend of declining coal consumption.		The US produced more energy from renewable sources than from coal for the first time ever in April In April, for the first time ever, the US produced more energy from renewable sources than from coal in a single month. According to data from the US Energy Information Administration, hydroelectric dams, solar panels, and wind turbines generated 68.5 million megawatt-hours of energy during the month of April 2019. This was compared to 60 million megawatt-hours of energy produced from coal in the same month. The trend comes despite President Donald Trump pledging to 'bring back' the coal industry, which has been hit hard by competition from cheaper natural gas and renewable energy. The US has been shifting toward natural gas, which is not only cheaper than coal, but also emits less carbon dioxide. However, experts noted that several coal plants were down for routine maintenance in April, and the month saw an increase in wind generation and a drop in energy demand. This suggests that coal could easily take over from renewable sources in the following months. Despite this, a report from the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) said that the trend could potentially extend into the month of May. The trend will happen sporadically throughout the next several years, says the IEEFA, as renewable energy becomes cheaper and the world's attention focuses on mitigating the effects of carbon-fueled climate change by turning away from fossil fuels. Growth in both solar and wind power has been particularly stark with the former producing 48 times more electricity than it did a decade ago due to cheaper equipment and government incentives. Coupled with a rise in renewables has been a trend of declining coal consumption. Last year, coal hit a nearly 40-year low in terms of proportional usage in the U.S. Coal has fallen out of favor in part due to decreasing costs of natural gas. In 2016, it was dethroned as the America's fuel of choice by natural gas, a feat aided in part by a thriving hydro-fracking industry that continues to pump abundant fossil fuels out of the Bakken Oil Shale in North Dakota. The Trump administration on Wednesday completed one of its biggest rollbacks of environmental rules, replacing a landmark Obama-era effort that sought to wean the nation's electrical grid off coal-fired power plants and their climate-damaging pollution. Environmental Protection Agency chief Andrew Wheeler, a former coal industry lobbyist, signed a replacement rule that gives states leeway in deciding whether to require efficiency upgrades at existing coal plants. Wheeler said coal-fired power plants remained essential to the power grid, something that opponents deny.'Americans want reliable energy that they can afford,' he said at a news conference. There's no denying 'the fact that fossil fuels will continue to be an important part of the mix,' he said.	False
369	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-12-10	org.	Initiative 1631, for example, was supposed to serve as a bellwether for how similar legislation could fare across the country.	The idea that [a carbon fee is] the way out of this mess is something we need to be pushing back on."	Some conservatives have signed on to the idea, believing it to be a market-based approach to eliminating pollution.	(RELATED: Keep It In The Ground Activists Stormed Trump Administration's Event At UN Meeting)Activists will instead focus on other causes near and dear to the environmental movement, such as pushing energy standards that mandate a total transition to clean and renewable energy.		Enviros Are Starting To Realize A Carbon Tax Won't Ever Happen The failure of carbon tax proposals to catch on in the U.S. — and around the world — is prompting environmentalists to give up hope of ever implementing it. Carbon fees were once considered an obvious next step in the country's multifaceted effort to reduce CO2 emissions. Congresswoman-elect Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a rising star on the left, believes a carbon tax can be one part of her sweeping "Green New Deal." Some conservatives have signed on to the idea, believing it to be a market-based approach to eliminating pollution. Even a number of major energy companies have come forward in support of charging businesses for the amount of carbon they release into the atmosphere. However, carbon tax proposals have proven unsuccessful time and time again. Initiative 1631, for example, was supposed to serve as a bellwether for how similar legislation could fare across the country. The bill — which called for a $15 fee on each metric ton of carbon emissions — was put to the test in Washington state during the 2018 midterm elections. Despite the state's Democratic lean and the governor's public backing, the measure was soundly rejected in November. It was the second time voters in the state had rejected a carbon fee. Such a proposal being rejected in a blue state doesn't bode well for activists who hope to see it implemented nationwide." f it can't pass in Washington state right now, I'm not sure that says that there's much of a pathway at this moment nationally," Washington Democratic Sen. Jeff Merkley said of the outcome. Events across the Atlantic have only worsened prospects for carbon tax supporters. In the face of unprecedented protests, the French government has decided to suspend a planned gas tax. President Emmanuel Macros had originally proposed a slew of new carbon taxes intended to wean consumers off fossil fuels and transition to electric vehicles. The price hikes, however, triggered a wave of intense riots. The protests, which have lasted for weeks, have even become deadly. One man was caught on video over the weekend losing his hand to a grenade explosion." here's been a predominant conversation in Washington, D.C., that's been led by economists and politicos that have tried to frame a carbon tax as the only way," Evan Weber, a national political director for the Sunrise Movement, said to Politico. "It's proved time and time again to be not politically popular, and we haven't even priced the policy at where economists say it needs to be. The idea that [a carbon fee is] the way out of this mess is something we need to be pushing back on." (RELATED: Keep It In The Ground Activists Stormed Trump Administration's Event At UN Meeting)Activists will instead focus on other causes near and dear to the environmental movement, such as pushing energy standards that mandate a total transition to clean and renewable energy. While many have expressed dissolution over the prospect of a carbon tax future, other green activists plan to keep charging forward with their own proposals. Supporters plan to introduce various carbon fee bills across state capitols in 2019, including Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey, Maryland and New England. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
192	theguardian	left_center_bias	2019-03-28	The seeds of a decisive and urgent approach were visible in his first campaign visits to Iowa in March, when O'Rourke praised the radical climate change-led proposals in the Green New Deal, citing his home state's struggles with extreme weather such as droughts and hurricanes."	I'll tell you what: I haven't seen anything better that addresses the singular crisis we face, a crisis that could at its worst lead to extinction," he said.	o be able to come from Texas and show we can reduce our pollution, we can invest in clean energy … I think that's a strong message."	Environmental advocates and experts wait to see if – as O'Rourke pivots from an election in a conservative-led oil state to a national primary race heavily influenced by left-leaning Democratic candidates – he will have more latitude and desire to put progressive green policies at the heart of his strategy."	Given Texas's critical importance to the environmental and economic future of the country, a Texas presidential candidate can deliver a powerful green narrative, said Luke Metzger, executive director of Environment Texas, an advocacy group.		Beto O'Rourke: just how green is the Texas Democrat? It was not hard for Beto O'Rourke to seem like a champion of green issues during his eye-catching Senate campaign in America's 2018 midterm elections – after all, he was up against Ted Cruz, a climate change denier. Now, as the former US congressman vies to be the Democratic candidate to run against Donald Trump in the 2020 race for the White House, he faces much closer scrutiny on the subject. Environmental advocates and experts wait to see if – as O'Rourke pivots from an election in a conservative-led oil state to a national primary race heavily influenced by left-leaning Democratic candidates – he will have more latitude and desire to put progressive green policies at the heart of his strategy." e didn't really emphasise climate change and global warming very much when he was running against Ted Cruz, but he's got a field that is absolutely filled with people who are making it a campaign item for voters to consider, and I think he's going to have to adjust his narrative when he's out on the trail," said Robert Forbis, an assistant professor of political science at Texas Tech University. "He's going to have to take a pretty strong stand." The seeds of a decisive and urgent approach were visible in his first campaign visits to Iowa in March, when O'Rourke praised the radical climate change-led proposals in the Green New Deal, citing his home state's struggles with extreme weather such as droughts and hurricanes." torms like Harvey are only going to become more frequent and more severe and more devastating and ultimately they'll compromise the ability to live in a city like Houston, Texas," he told the audience. O'Rourke signalled support for reducing the country's dependence on fossil fuels and investing in green technology to reach net zero emissions." ome will criticise the Green New Deal for being too bold or being unmanageable. I'll tell you what: I haven't seen anything better that addresses the singular crisis we face, a crisis that could at its worst lead to extinction," he said. "Literally the future of the world depends on us." Cruz held his Senate seat with a narrow win over O'Rourke last November. The Republican has dismissed climate change as a "pseudoscientific theory" and wrote an opinion article in 2017 urging Trump to rip up the landmark Paris climate agreement.O'Rourke, meanwhile, wrote a blog backing the Paris accord and during six years in Congress he successfully worked to secure federal protection for more than 7,000 acres of mountainous land on the outskirts of his native El Paso. The League of Conservation Voters' National Environmental Scorecard gives Cruz a lifetime rating of 4% based on his voting record in Congress; O'Rourke's score is 95%. Still, O'Rourke's history on environmental issues is more complex than that number might suggest – perhaps unsurprisingly for a politician who hails from west Texas. Texas has more installed wind power capacity than any other state and solar power is growing. But the state's economy is heavily dependent on the fossil fuel industry, which also wields immense political clout.O'Rourke received $476,325 in campaign contributions from oil and gas sources in the 2017-18 election cycle, according to the Center for Responsive Politics – second nationally to Cruz, albeit not from Pacs and a small percentage of his total donations. This helped fuel accusations that O'Rourke is more of a fossil fuel ally than his lofty rhetoric might imply. The Sludge, an investigative website, reported last December that O'Rourke's Senate campaign failed to comply with a pledge not to knowingly accept contributions of more than $200 from the oil and gas industry.O'Rourke has not yet signed up to the pledge for 2020. "Already, five declared presidential candidates have officially signed the No Fossil Fuel Money pledge, meaning more than a third of declared Democratic candidates have done so," said David Turnbull, strategic communications director of Oil Change US, a group that urges politicians to commit to clean energy." e look forward to the sixth candidate signing the full No Fossil Fuel Money pledge, and we're hopeful that Beto might be that candidate."O'Rourke's campaign did not respond to questions about whether he plans to sign the pledge or how his qualified support for natural gas is compatible with the Green New Deal. In 2015, O'Rourke twice voted to repeal the nationwide ban on exporting crude oil internationally, arguing that lifting the prohibition would boost the economy and national security. "We have seen the result, which is an emergency of booming fossil fuel production here in the United States at precisely the time we need to be urgently moving away from those dirty fuels," Turnbull said." imilarly problematic, Beto has pointed to fracked natural gas as a potential part of the solution to the climate crisis when the reality is that there is simply no room for new fossil fuel development of any sort, including fracked gas. Like with his support for the removal of the crude export ban, we hope that when Beto lays out his full climate policies it will reflect the fact that we can't afford any new fossil fuels of any sort, including gas." Given Texas's critical importance to the environmental and economic future of the country, a Texas presidential candidate can deliver a powerful green narrative, said Luke Metzger, executive director of Environment Texas, an advocacy group. "I think Texas has a real interesting story to tell in terms of our both being number one in the country for global warming pollution but also being number one for renewable energy," he said." o be able to come from Texas and show we can reduce our pollution, we can invest in clean energy … I think that's a strong message."	False
233	npr	left_center_bias	2019-08-08	The new report offers some broad suggestions for how countries might achieve that.	To Slow Global Warming, U.N.	There's a growing consensus that a transition to a more plant-centered diet would help.	Scientists and economists have been studying the effects of our diets on the environment for years.	Together, those activities generate about a third of human greenhouse gas emissions, including more than 40% of methane.		To Slow Global Warming, U.N. Warns Agriculture Must Change Humans must drastically alter food production to prevent the most catastrophic effects of global warming, according to a new report from the United Nations panel on climate change. The panel of scientists looked at the climate change effects of agriculture, deforestation and other land use, such as harvesting peat and managing grasslands and wetlands. Together, those activities generate about a third of human greenhouse gas emissions, including more than 40% of methane. That's important because methane is particularly good at trapping heat in the atmosphere. And the problem is getting more severe." Emissions from agricultural production are projected to increase," the authors warn. "Delaying action" on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, they continue, "could result in some irreversible impacts on some ecosystems." This is the latest in a series of reports from the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The new report adds weight and detail to a warning put out by the same panel of scientists last fall, in which they sounded the alarm about the inadequacy of the pledges countries have made so far to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. At that time, the panel broadly suggested that farmland would need to shrink and forests would need to grow to keep Earth from getting more than 1.5 degrees Celsius hotter than it was in the preindustrial era. Global temperatures have already risen about 1 degree Celsius in the past 150 years. To meet that temperature target, global greenhouse gas emissions will need to fall by 40% to 50% in the next decade. Scientists say the only way to achieve that reduction is to significantly increase the amount of land that's covered in trees and other vegetation and significantly reduce the amount of methane and other greenhouse gases that come from raising livestock such as cows, sheep and goats. The new report offers some broad suggestions for how countries might achieve that. For example, for countries that have lost tree cover in the past century, reforestation can help suck greenhouse gases out of the air, while also preventing soil from drying up. Reducing food waste can also help reduce a country's greenhouse gas footprint. Controlling emissions from agriculture is also a food-security issue. Greenhouse gases from food production create a vicious cycle: As Earth gets hotter, farming gets more difficult in many places, which forces farmers to clear more land to grow food." Climate change, including increases in frequency and intensity of extremes, has adversely impacted food security and terrestrial ecosystems, as well as contributed to desertification and land degradation in many regions," the report's authors write. If greenhouse gas emissions continue to increase, as they are doing today, it will exacerbate those challenges and eventually make it all but impossible to control global warming without creating serious food shortages. The U.N. panel is the latest group of experts to grapple with a global conundrum: how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture, deforestation and other land use without creating food shortages or displacing people whose livelihoods rely on practices that are unsustainable globally. Scientists and economists have been studying the effects of our diets on the environment for years. There's a growing consensus that a transition to a more plant-centered diet would help. Currently, about 50% of the globe's vegetated land is dedicated to agriculture — and about 30% of cropland is used to grow grain for animal feed. Given how much land it takes to grow food to feed livestock, meat production is a leading cause of deforestation.A report released last month by the World Resources Institute finds that if current dietary patterns continue, an additional 593 million hectares — which is almost twice the size of India — would be needed to feed the projected 9.8 billion people (the anticipated population) by 2050. Right now, agriculture generates an estimated 25% of annual greenhouse gas emissions, according to the WRI; that's when you combine food production and the land-use changes associated with farming, such as clearing vegetation and plowing. If current trends continue, but agricultural productivity does not increase beyond 2010 levels, the WRI report concludes that most of the globe's remaining forests would need to be cleared to feed the world. And the globe would exceed the greenhouse gas emission targets set by the Paris climate agreement.	False
711	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-06-26	And to me, the answer is innovation."	But, to scientists, Koch remains a climate pariah who has learned how to temper his message for audiences who don't buy into the view that industry players are somehow more credible than impartial researchers."	Both can impact the relative financial attractiveness of future energy options."	"But the question is, 'What do we do about it, about whatever risk there is?'	"Even Milton Friedman understood the existence of market externalities, the fact that damage to our environment is not accounted for in the free market without placing some sort of price signal."	These policies that the U.S. government has, others have proposed or promulgated, have been just symbolic," Koch said in the interview. <sep> 	Don't Be Fooled By The Gentler Tone Of Charles Koch's Climate-Change Denial "Obviously, if the temperature continues to go up, at some point it can be harmful or even very harmful," the billionaire Republican megadonor said during an interview last week on Freakonomics Radio. "But the question is, 'What do we do about it, about whatever risk there is?' And to me, the answer is innovation." On the face of it, that admission may seem like a shift coming from a man who, with his brother David, bankrolled a conservative movement bent on hacking away environmental regulations and helped transform the GOP into the only major political party in the developed world to deny the overwhelming evidence of manmade global warming. But, to scientists, Koch remains a climate pariah who has learned how to temper his message for audiences who don't buy into the view that industry players are somehow more credible than impartial researchers." t's just no longer credible to deny out of hand that climate change is happening or even that it's human-caused," Michael Mann, a climatologist at Penn State University and co-author of a new book on climate change denialism, told HuffPost on Monday. "So the forces of denial ― the special interests, the polluting interests ― have instead turned to a new talking point that they think they might be able to get away with." When you look at all the climate denial arguments, they're basically the flip of all that: It's not real, it's not us, it's not bad, the experts disagree or the experts are unreliable, and there's no hope, we can't fix it," Cook told HuffPost. "You expect them to be moving along that spectrum." But that reasoning ― which sounds measured compared to outright denial of observable phenomena ― has been employed for years to undermine climate science, and does not represent an evolution on the issue. The spectrum of climate science denialism, that argument included, has not changed much over the past two decades, according to a 2015 U.K. study analyzing 16,000 documents from conservative think tanks. The philosophical belief that, left alone, the free market will produce industries and technologies to curb climate change before it becomes catastrophic is flawed. Economist Milton Friedman, the so-called patron saint of laissez faire capitalism who popularized the belief that corporations should pursue profit and shareholder value above all, argued there is little incentive to preserve the environment without some form of government intervention." ou need a price on the emission of carbon if you're going to level the playing field," Mann said. "Even Milton Friedman understood the existence of market externalities, the fact that damage to our environment is not accounted for in the free market without placing some sort of price signal." The most popular solution among economists is putting a tax on carbon emissions. In February, a group of Republican elder statesmen introduced a plan for a $40 carbon tax that would be returned to taxpayers in the form of a carbon dividend. A cadre of oil and gas giants, including Exxon Mobil Corp., endorsed the proposal earlier this month. But the proposition faces dim prospects of becoming law under the Trump administration, which has vowed to pump up the oil, gas and coal industries. Booming U.S. oil production ― bolstered by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, technology ― has helped keep oil prices low since they plummeted in mid-2014. The price per barrel now hovers just above $40. Without some incentive from policymakers to invest in zero-emissions energy such as wind, solar or hydropower, the world is likely to warm well past 2 degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, by the end of the century. That temperature rise would drastically alter the climate, submerge coastal communities and could create up to 2 billion refugees." oth government policy and low-carbon technological innovations are going to be critical to keeping warming within 2C," James Leaton, research director at the U.K.-based financial think tank Carbon Tracker, told HuffPost by email. "Obviously policy and technology interact and cannot be seen in isolation ― with policy stimulating technological deployment, and rapid roll-out reducing the future level of policy required. Both can impact the relative financial attractiveness of future energy options." These policies that the U.S. government has, others have proposed or promulgated, have been just symbolic," Koch said in the interview. "We oppose all of these because they end up being cronyism. They end up helping certain wealthy people to the disadvantage of the less fortunate." Sometimes, the pot calls the kettle black. But in this case, the kettle is filled with a solution to clean up the greasy mess left behind by the pot. And the pot is a fossil fuel tycoon with a net worth roughly the size of Bulgaria's gross domestic product." t's one thing to be an ignorant fool, but it's quite something else to allow one's malicious ignorance to potentially threaten the entire planet," Mann said. "That is what is so pernicious about [Koch's] continued denial of the threat of climate change, and the extent to which they have been able to pollute our entire political discourse by using their political wealth to confuse the public and policymakers about the reality of this existential threat."	False
81	motherjones	left_bias	2019-09-20	As part of the wide-ranging conversation about climate change, he explained how he squares his support for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities."	Yeah, it's cheap because [the price] does not include the full cost to humanity."	Nuclear has to be a part of the blend," Booker added.	"Even if it means that we have to phase off it in the future, the real pressing challenge right now the threat to our health and our safety and our well-being is climate change and that needs to be our driving focus."	The candidate sat down with Climate Desk in Anacostia, Washington, D.C. for an exclusive interview a day before the climate strikes taking place around the world.		Cory Booker Says Any Serious Climate Plan Has to Include Nuclear Power Among the 2020 presidential candidates, Cory Booker stands out for his record of advocating for the people who bear the brunt of pollution and toxic waste. Before his presidential run, he traveled to Louisiana, North Carolina, and Alabama to inform a sweeping bill that codifies the federal government's requirement to incorporate the interests of communities of color in environmental regulation. And as the mayor of Newark, Booker tackled the city's lead water crisis and industrial pollution. Booker is also one of the few presidential contenders to embrace nuclear energy openly—his $3 trillion plan to address the climate crisis includes $20 billion in research and development of nuclear technology. This is one major difference between Booker and his opponent Bernie Sanders, who has called nuclear power a "false solution" and actually phases it out in his climate plan. The candidate sat down with Climate Desk in Anacostia, Washington, D.C. for an exclusive interview a day before the climate strikes taking place around the world. As part of the wide-ranging conversation about climate change, he explained how he squares his support for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities."  didn't come to the United States Senate as a big nuclear guy," Booker told Grist's executive editor Nikhil Swaminathan on Thursday, "but when I started looking at the urgency of climate change, I saw that over 50 percent of our non-carbon-producing power right now comes from nuclear." Nuclear has to be a part of the blend," Booker added. "And to say it's not, to say you're going to get rid of nuclear, really you are handicapping [and] undermining our ability to get to the ambitious goals we must have." Booker also supports a fee or tax on carbon pollution that would be used in part to fund clean energy and efficiency investments. (South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg is also in favor of price on carbon, and explained his plan to Climate Desk this week.) "I don't think there's any pathway to get to where we need to go without putting some kind of price on carbon," he said. "A lot of people say, 'well gas is so cheap right now.' Yeah, it's cheap because [the price] does not include the full cost to humanity." Booker's support for nuclear power and a carbon fee has tempered any praise from the Climate Justice Alliance, a network that fears these policies would hurt more than help affected communities. Indeed, critics of a carbon tax worry that it would be regressive, hurting the poor more than the rich. But Booker argues that rebates and investments in poor communities could help solve that problem. And while historically, nuclear power companies have built their plants—and dumped the waste—in poor communities of color, Booker believes it doesn't have to be that way: He points to agreements struck between local and national governments in Canada and Europe as a model for a "community process to deal with the waste." Nuclear has proven to be one of the safest ways to advance carbon neutrality," he said. "Even if it means that we have to phase off it in the future, the real pressing challenge right now the threat to our health and our safety and our well-being is climate change and that needs to be our driving focus."	False
676	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-10-10	hese people have either no sense or a very sophisticated sense of irony to be doing this at this time," he added, referring to the Trump administration.	"To get rid of the Clean Power Plan without any idea of what to do that could be better is malfeasance on the part of the EPA administrator."	The next few weeks proved Mother Nature to be a cruel instructor.	Scientists say the frequency and severity of natural disasters like these are linked to climbing global temperatures.	But record-breaking heat baked the West in July and August, drying its woodlands and leaving it vulnerable to the sort of blaze now engulfing the wine-producing region neighboring San Francisco."		Trump Axes Climate Plan As The World Burns Wildfires are raging through California's wine country. Flooded homes in Houston, Texas, are still rotting. Puerto Ricans are languishing in darkness, collecting drinking water from streams. And South Florida and the U.S. Virgin Islands were still picking through the rubble, as yet another hurricane made landfall over the mouth of the Mississippi River. Scientists say the frequency and severity of natural disasters like these are linked to climbing global temperatures. But the Trump administration on Tuesday announced plans to repeal the United States' only major policy to combat climate change. The Clean Power Plan ― a set of Obama-era regulations aimed at slashing emissions from coal-fired power plants and boosting renewable energy production ― had yet to go into effect, after being temporarily blocked by the Supreme Court since February 2016. On Tuesday afternoon, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt ― who sued to halt the plan last year when he was Oklahoma's attorney general ― released a proposal to eliminate the policy without any replacement, leaving the country without a national strategy to adapt to global warming. Rain soaked the state last winter, stacking its mountains with colossal snowdrifts and quenching soil left parched after more than half a decade of historic drought. But record-breaking heat baked the West in July and August, drying its woodlands and leaving it vulnerable to the sort of blaze now engulfing the wine-producing region neighboring San Francisco." hese people have either no sense or a very sophisticated sense of irony to be doing this at this time," he added, referring to the Trump administration. Following an exceptionally hot summer, 172 fires ― 78 of which qualified as "large" incidents according to the National Interagency Fire Center ― burned more than 8 million acres in western Montana and the Pacific Northwest. That's almost double the 10-year average of 5.5 million acres. Elsewhere, a spate of fierce hurricanes inundated parts of the South and Caribbean. Warmer oceans tend to exacerbate storms and shift their directions. After Hurricane Harvey dumped 30 inches of rain on Houston in August, scientists warned that the Category 4 storm served as a teachable example of the type of weather event their models predict will become more common as the planet continues to warm. The next few weeks proved Mother Nature to be a cruel instructor. Hurricane Irma rampaged through the Caribbean before slamming into Florida as a Category 5 beast, knocking out power for millions and ultimately killing 69 people. Less than two weeks later, Hurricane Maria pummeled Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, crippling the U.S. territories' power grids and leaving whole areas uninhabitable. In Puerto Rico, which has a larger population than 21 U.S. states, the death toll continues to climb, hitting 39 this week as the island's aging utility struggles to rebuild electrical transmission wires. But the proposal to scrap the policy without any kind of replacement to curb greenhouse gases underscores the extent to which the Trump administration's refusal to acknowledge basic climate science is leaving the country vulnerable to global warming effects that are no longer theoretical." t is crazy to think about having an EPA administrator who has nothing to offer in replacement of an admittedly not-so-good regulatory solution," former Rep. Bob Inglis (R-S.C.), now the executive director of the conservative environmental advocacy group RepublicEn, told HuffPost by phone on Tuesday. "To get rid of the Clean Power Plan without any idea of what to do that could be better is malfeasance on the part of the EPA administrator."	True
381	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-10-08	But don't expect to hear that from many other media outlets, especially those that often cite individual weather events as evidence of man-made warming.	Pielke pointed out this inconvenient data.	For example, The Washington Post's write-up of the IPCC's report focused on the mainline findings — namely, that "the world is woefully off target" to keep future global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.	(RELATED: It's The Final Chance We Have To Stop Global Warming … Until The Next Chance)When it comes to droughts, for example, the IPCC admits there is "low confidence in the sign of drought trends since 1950 at global scale.	For example, the IPCC's report noted that "there is only low confidence regarding changes in global tropical cyclone numbers under global warming over the last four decades."		UN's New Report Shows There's 'Little Basis' For A Favorite Claim Of Climate Activists The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel On Climate Change's (IPCC) newly-released climate report, once again, found little to no evidence global warming caused many types of extreme weather events to increase." he IPCC once again reports that there is little basis for claiming that drought, floods, hurricanes, tornadoes have increased, much less increased due to" greenhouse gases, University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke, Jr. tweeted Sunday night. For example, the IPCC's report noted that "there is only low confidence regarding changes in global tropical cyclone numbers under global warming over the last four decades." Pielke pointed out this inconvenient data. Much like the IPCC's 2013 climate assessment, the new special report confirmed what Pielke and others have said for years about the relationship between global warming and extreme weather. But don't expect to hear that from many other media outlets, especially those that often cite individual weather events as evidence of man-made warming. For example, The Washington Post's write-up of the IPCC's report focused on the mainline findings — namely, that "the world is woefully off target" to keep future global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. The New York Times highlighted the IPCC's warning of "a world of worsening food shortages and wildfires, and a mass die-off of coral reefs as soon as 2040." Neither WaPo nor NYT mentioned the report's findings on extreme weather. The IPCC's new report is meant to sound the alarm on global warming ahead of the UN climate summit, which is to be held in Poland this December. Delegates are expected to make further commitments to implement the Paris climate accord that calls for limiting future warming below 2 degrees Celsius by 2100. Aside from dire predictions, however, the IPCC's new report also noted that many types of extreme weather events are not getting worse. (RELATED: It's The Final Chance We Have To Stop Global Warming … Until The Next Chance)When it comes to droughts, for example, the IPCC admits there is "low confidence in the sign of drought trends since 1950 at global scale. The report says there are "likely to be trends in some regions of the world," including increasing droughts in the Mediterranean and decreasing droughts in parts of North America. The IPCC also noted there is "low confidence due to limited evidence, however, that anthropogenic climate change has affected the frequency and the magnitude of floods." The report added that "streamflow trends since 1950 are non-statistically significant in most of the world's largest rivers." However, the report's authors warned that future warming could exacerbate extreme weather and hurt the global economy. The report's authors also claimed extreme weather had already increased, contrary to much of their own evidence." ne of the key messages that comes out very strongly from this report is that we are already seeing the consequences of 1 [degree Celsius] of global warming through more extreme weather, rising sea levels and diminishing Arctic sea ice, among other changes," Panmao Zhai, an IPCC co-chair, said in a statement issued Sunday.	False
846	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-10-24	Solomon proposed that while feigning interest in global warming is politically expedient, most people are unconvinced that it poses a real problem—unlike the real pollution that is killing millions.	The European Commissioner insisted that the key to addressing the problem of climate change and avoiding a "point of no return" is to be found in "political will."	"Seasonal river flows are changing, and floods and droughts are more severe, more frequent than ever before."	"The populist backlash — a revulsion at top-down governments laden with jet-setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses — has swept America with Trump's election, Great Britain with Brexit, much of Europe, and Australia."	e are here today because our climate is under threat," Mr. Vella said.		Pope Francis Calls for 'Prompt and Effective' Response to Climate Change The international summit "Water and Climate: Meeting of the Great Rivers of the World," sponsored by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) and other partners, is taking place in Rome's Capitol building (the "Campidoglio") from Oct. 23-25. In the Pope's written message to the meeting, conveyed by the Vatican's Secretary of State, Cardinal Pietro Parolin, the pontiff expressed his concern for water conservation around the world, as well as his fervent desire that "the threat posed by climate change to our brothers and sisters in the most vulnerable countries will find prompt and effective responses." In another speech at the summit Monday, Mr. Karmenu Vella, European Commissioner for Environment, Maritime Affairs and Fisheries, echoed the Pope's concerns regarding climate change, tying it into the situation of the world's rivers." e are here today because our climate is under threat," Mr. Vella said. "Seasonal river flows are changing, and floods and droughts are more severe, more frequent than ever before." Climate change is raising the temperature of rivers and lakes, with major impacts on ecosystems and water quality. These problems are just as real in Europe as they are elsewhere around the globe," he asserted. The European Commissioner insisted that the key to addressing the problem of climate change and avoiding a "point of no return" is to be found in "political will." The Paris Agreement reminds us of the need to prepare and adapt, and to build up our climate resilience," he said. In a major report last week, the prestigious UK journal, The Lancet, suggested that pollution of air and water, rather than carbon-induced global warming, is the real crisis facing the world, one being overlooked by environmental activists. The Lancet revealed that pollution-related diseases were responsible for an estimated 9 million premature deaths in 2015, or some 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence combined. Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today, the study found, but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwide—"three times more deaths than from AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence." Curiously, neither the European Commissioner nor the Pope made any mention to the extraordinary number of deaths caused by water and air pollution, preferring instead to focus on the nebulous and ideologically charged notion of anthropogenic climate change. While to date there has not been a single documented case of a person being killed by carbon dioxide related "global warming," real pollution of air, water and land is killing an average of 25,000 people every day across the globe. Late last week, a report out of Canada suggested that many nations around the world have quietly begun ignoring or abandoning the energy goals outlined by the Paris Climate Accord. According to Lawrence Solomon of Energy Probe, a Toronto-based environmental organization, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is one of the only signers of the Paris agreement who is actually abiding by the exacting demands of the accord. Solomon proposed that while feigning interest in global warming is politically expedient, most people are unconvinced that it poses a real problem—unlike the real pollution that is killing millions. In an essay in Friday's Financial Post, Solomon said that "most signatories are ignoring, if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments, undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios." Trudeau now stands almost alone in sincere support of Paris," Solomon wrote. "The populist backlash — a revulsion at top-down governments laden with jet-setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses — has swept America with Trump's election, Great Britain with Brexit, much of Europe, and Australia." In the process, global warming enthusiasts are being swept out," he said.	False
883	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-10-12	Here are some of the highlights:Climate change is a product of ignorance and an anti-Christian societyIf science was all about "consensus" we'd still be living in cavesGreens want to make life nasty, brutish and shortWhere's the evidence for climate catastrophe?	But you rarely hear it so trenchantly expressed by a former world leader – as it was in London yesterday by Aussie ex-Prime Minister Tony Abbott in a hard-hitting, must-read speech for the Global Warming Policy Foundation.	Abbott's speech – which is causing Australia's notoriously left-wing media to explode like ripe watermelons struck by hollow-point bullets – ought to serve as a painful reminder to Australia's Liberal party of the talent they lost when they decided to knife this Jesuit-trained, Oxford-educated, rock-solid, family man conservative in the back and replace him with the slippery Davos-style globalist Turnbull.	This should always have been obvious.	Delingpole: Aussie ex-PM Abbott Slams Climate Change 'Religion' Some of us knew this already.		Delingpole: Aussie ex-PM Abbott Slams Climate Change 'Religion' Some of us knew this already. But you rarely hear it so trenchantly expressed by a former world leader – as it was in London yesterday by Aussie ex-Prime Minister Tony Abbott in a hard-hitting, must-read speech for the Global Warming Policy Foundation. Abbott is one of only a handful of world leaders to have spoken out against the global warming "consensus." (The only other ones, recently, are former Czech president Václav Klaus and, of course, President Donald Trump). This gives you an idea of just how badly infected are the nations of the free world by the green virus. Even those politicians who might nurture doubts in private almost never express them in public. Abbott himself lost his job as Australia's prime minister at least in part because he was found guilty of wrongthink on climate change, which he once famously described as "crap". The man who replaced him as prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull – unfondly known as the "Honourable Member for Goldman Sachs" – is himself a leading tentacle of the Green Blob. Abbott's speech – which is causing Australia's notoriously left-wing media to explode like ripe watermelons struck by hollow-point bullets – ought to serve as a painful reminder to Australia's Liberal party of the talent they lost when they decided to knife this Jesuit-trained, Oxford-educated, rock-solid, family man conservative in the back and replace him with the slippery Davos-style globalist Turnbull. Here are some of the highlights:Climate change is a product of ignorance and an anti-Christian societyIf science was all about "consensus" we'd still be living in cavesGreens want to make life nasty, brutish and shortWhere's the evidence for climate catastrophe? There's none in Australia, that's for sure…Contrary to the breathless assertions that climate change is behind every weather event, in Australia, the floods are not bigger, the bushfires are not worse, the droughts are not deeper or longer, and the cyclones are not more severe than they were in the 1800s. Sometimes, they do more damage but that's because there's more to destroy, not because their intensity has increased. More than 100 years of photography at Manly Beach in my electorate does not suggest that sea levels have risen despite frequent reports from climate alarmists that this is imminent.…But there's plenty of evidence that green lunacy is killing the Australian economyRenewables have more to do with virtue-signalling than with useful energyThere's a reason renewable energy is crap and it's so simple even lefties and greens should be able to understand itHydro aside, renewable energy should properly be referred to as intermittent and unreliable power. When the wind doesn't blow and the sun doesn't shine, the power doesn't flow. Wind and solar power are like sailing ships; cheaper than powered boats, to be sure, but we've stopped using sail for transport because it couldn't be trusted to turn up on time. Because the weather is unpredictable, you never really know when renewable power is going to work. Its marginal cost is low but so is its reliability, so in the absence of industrial scale batteries, it always needs matching capacity from dependable coal, gas, hydro, or nuclear energy. This should always have been obvious. We think we're rational but where green policy is concerned we're little better than the AztecsOh and by the way, the way we're carrying on Western Civilization is on its way out…	False
725	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-04-07	We view science as a way to deepen our appreciation and wonder at the majesty of God's creation, including the complex, beautiful and life-sustaining planet earth.	in an op-ed published by the Missoulian Thursday for failing to understand climate change's role in a widespread fish kill in Yellowstone National Park last summer."	In 2012, he told Montana Public Radio he believes the climate is changing, but doubts how much humans are effecting it.	he simple moral truth is that United States is by far the world's largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it," they added.	e cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment," said the church leaders ― the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula; the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings; and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co-Cathedral."		Church Leaders Are Begging Their State's Senator To Give Up Global Warming Denial Four Christian church leaders in Montana are urging their state's Republican senator to quit rejecting the widely accepted science behind man-made global warming. The one Catholic priest and three Protestant clergy criticized Sen. Steve Daines (R-Mont.) in an op-ed published by the Missoulian Thursday for failing to understand climate change's role in a widespread fish kill in Yellowstone National Park last summer." e cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment," said the church leaders ― the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula; the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings; and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co-Cathedral." he simple moral truth is that United States is by far the world's largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it," they added. The church leaders slammed Daines for having the "audacity" to challenge the overwhelming scientific consensus that emissions from farms and burning fossil fuels are trapping heat in the atmosphere and causing the planet to warm. Not unlike the years of public skepticism over smoking's role in lung cancer, many people still doubt the science behind global warming thanks to a decades-long campaign to seed doubt funded by companies with money at stake. Daines, who earned a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering before entering politics, received a paltry 3 percent lifetime score from the League of Conservation Voters, which ranks lawmakers by how they vote on environmental legislation. He did, however, earn a 16 percent score for last year. In 2012, he told Montana Public Radio he believes the climate is changing, but doubts how much humans are effecting it. We view science as a way to deepen our appreciation and wonder at the majesty of God's creation, including the complex, beautiful and life-sustaining planet earth.	True
418	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-11-28	"We'd like to see something that is more data-driven.	economy."	It's based on modeling."	It's not data-driven," White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said at a news briefing Tuesday.	t's not based on facts.		President Trump Says He's Too Intelligent To Believe In Climate Change President Donald Trump asserted that he had "very high levels of intelligence," and as such, did not believe in the scientific consensus surrounding climate change in a sweeping interview with The Washington Post published Tuesday." ne of the problems that a lot of people like myself, we have very high levels of intelligence but we're not necessarily such believers," said Trump, speaking to the Post's Josh Dawsey and Philip Rucker. "You look at our air and our water and it's right now at a record clean. ... As to whether or not it's man-made and whether or not the effects that you're talking about are there, I don't see it — not nearly like it is." Trump's statements, his latest in a long history of climate change denial, go against the vast majority of scientists who say the planet has rapidly warmed since the Industrial Revolution and will continue to do so unless humanity is able to dramatically scale back greenhouse gas emissions. Without such action, the planet faces a slew of devastating effects, including a mass die-off of coral reefs; an increase in the severity of natural disasters, such as wildfires; and a global economic hit in the trillions of dollars, according to a recent United Nations study. The White House released its own sweeping National Climate Assessment on the Friday after Thanksgiving. The 1,656-page report, compiled by 13 federal agencies and more than 300 researchers, painted the bleakest portrait of the future United States yet, noting that the country had already warmed 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit over the past century and will warm a further 3 degrees by 2100 unless fossil fuel use is scaled back. Predictions even said that warming could approach 9 degrees or more by the end of the century. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Tuesday that the recent National Climate Assessment was "not based on facts." The report was compiled by 13 federal agencies and more than 300 researchers. Among threats to health and the environment, the report also warned that sweeping damage would cut off as much as 10 percent of the U.S. economy." t's not based on facts. ... It's not data-driven," White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said at a news briefing Tuesday. "We'd like to see something that is more data-driven. It's based on modeling." I wrote the climate scenarios chapter myself, so I can confirm it considers ALL scenarios, from those where we go carbon negative before end of century to those where carbon emissions continue to rise," Katharine Hayhoe, a co-author of the current assessment and director of the Climate Science Center at Texas Tech University, said in a tweet on Friday. The president has stayed firm on his anti-climate rhetoric in recent days, even after the devastating Camp fire in Northern California left at least 88 people dead. Trump toured the town of Paradise, which was incinerated, and said that his opinion of climate change hadn't shifted after the visit. He moved to lay blame on forest management policies during the visit instead, even suggesting that "raking" would help stop the scourge of wildfires, claims he appeared to repeat in his interview with the Post on Tuesday." he fire in California, where I was, if you looked at the floor, the floor of the fire they have trees that were fallen, they did no forest management, no forest maintenance, and you can light — you can take a match like this and light a tree trunk when that thing is laying there for more than 14 or 15 months," Trump said. "You go to other places where they have denser trees — it's more dense, where the trees are more flammable — they don't have forest fires like this, because they maintain."	False
213	yahoonews	left_center_bias	2019-10-17	"They can sense that we are making an impact.	omething must have changed in the debate that so many young people are speaking up and so many young people are being targeted," Thunberg told Yahoo News in response to the mockery her movement has received from leaders like Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin.	So they are using several methods to mock and hate."	Now what does he want?• None 'Five Eyes' in the dark: Will Trump and Barr destroy trust in U.S. intelligence?• None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president• None What my journey into homelessness taught me	It found that properties like Doral that are likely to be underwater in the coming years are already selling for 15 percent less than those where flooding is not a threat.		&#39;Climate change will not be on the agenda&#39; of next G-7, White House says While scientists continue to warn that climate change poses an existential threat to the planet, President Trump won't be talking about it at next year's G-7 summit at one of his Florida golf resorts." limate change will not be on the agenda," acting chief of staff Mick Mulvaney told reporters gathered in the White House briefing room Thursday, without elaborating. Mulvaney announced that the G-7 meetings would be held on June 10 and 11 at the Trump National Doral Golf Club, just west of Miami, an area threatened by sea level rise brought on by climate change. With its low elevations and porous limestone bedrock, South Florida is particularly vulnerable to sea level rise. Despite warnings from the scientific community, developers including Trump have continued to invest in property that could be underwater before long." ust using the U.S. government projections, we could be at 11 to over 13 feet [of sea level rise] by the end of century," Harold Wanless, director of the University of Miami's geological sciences department and a leading expert on sea level rise, told Yahoo News. "There's only 3 percent of Miami-Dade County that's greater than 12 feet above sea level." Trump has labeled climate change a "hoax" concocted by the Chinese government in an attempt to ruin the U.S. economy, but not all members of the Republican Party agree. For the first time in a decade, Florida's state Senate held a meeting this week to discuss the impacts of climate change, the Miami Herald reported." here's a younger generation of conservatives in this state that aren't as much in denial," Republican Sen. Tom Lee, who chairs the Committee on Infrastructure and Security, told the Herald. Young climate activists like Sweden's Greta Thunberg have mobilized students around the world to hold school strikes to protest inaction from world leaders on what they see as a crisis." omething must have changed in the debate that so many young people are speaking up and so many young people are being targeted," Thunberg told Yahoo News in response to the mockery her movement has received from leaders like Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin. "They can sense that we are making an impact. They obviously don't want that. So they are using several methods to mock and hate." While Trump continues to deny the threat that climate change poses to his own properties and the world at large, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco released a report Thursday on the financial risks that global warming poses. It found that properties like Doral that are likely to be underwater in the coming years are already selling for 15 percent less than those where flooding is not a threat. Even more jarring, the report warned that climate change poses a "threat to the availability of the 30-year mortgage in various vulnerable and highly exposed areas." Thanks to the continued buildup of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere due primarily to the use of fossil fuels, the rate at which the polar icecaps are melting continues to exceed previous estimates. As of Aug. 1 of this year, for instance, Greenland had lost a record 12.5 billion tons of ice. This year is on pace to become the second warmest on record, and all of the top 10 hottest years on record — with the exception of 1998 — have occurred since 2005. Download the Yahoo News app to customize your experience.• None Turkey's president Erdogan bluffed Trump out of Syria. Now what does he want?• None 'Five Eyes' in the dark: Will Trump and Barr destroy trust in U.S. intelligence?• None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president• None What my journey into homelessness taught me	False
46	foxnews	right_bias	2019-03-18	"This is the core issue we all must face as aggressively as humanly possible."	The researchers added: "Some examples briefly illustrated include 'snowmaggedon' in February 2010, Superstorm Sandy in October 2012 and supertyphoon Haiyan in November 2013, and, in more detail, the Boulder floods of September 2013, all of which were influenced by high sea surface temperatures that had a discernible human component."	We suggest that it is more useful to regard the extreme circulation regime or weather event as being largely unaffected by climate change, and question whether known changes in the climate system's thermodynamic state affected the impact of the particular event," stated one paper produced by researchers at the National Center for Atmospheric Research.	... We have to do it ourselves."	And it's incomprehensible to me that there's no sense of urgency from the federal government."		Bill de Blasio, pitching $10B climate change plan, blames global warming for Hurricane Sandy In a video posted to social media on Monday, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio again directly blamed climate change for 2012's deady Superstorm Sandy -- a contention that lacks scientific support - and touted his plan to spend $10 billion to fortify and "protect Lower Manhattan" against future storms. Even as local leaders warned that de Blasio's plan to construct new barriers would actually destroy the waterfront neighborhoods he says he wants to protect, de Blasio insisted his views were now mainstream among New Yorkers." After Sandy, there weren't a lot of climate change deniers left in New York City," de Blasio said directly into the camera, after reminding viewers that the storm left dozens dead and cost the city billions in economic losses. "We need to protect this city and this country, and this world, from global warming. There's no national policy to do it right now. ... We have to do it ourselves." Mayor de Blasio added in the video, which appeared on Facebook and Twitter, that the federal government also must act quickly: "We have to fight for the bigger changes, like the Green New Deal," de Blasio said. The mayor claimed that studies undertaken by his office and others has determined that if the city does not prepare for climate change, rising seas will expose 20 percent of lower Manhattan to daily flooding by 2100. However, past expert predictions on the effects of global warming have proven inaccurate at best. For example, United Nations scientists predicted that the world had only 10 years to immediately address climate change all the way back in 1989, in order to protect entire cities from destruction and a resulting flood of eco-refugees. A NASA scientist falsely predicted the same thing in 2006. Contrary to de Blasio's assertions, no study has defintively linked the existence or power of Superstorm Sandy to man-made climate change, or made the claim that such a link can be definitively established at all. Some contested studies have, however, suggested the storm may have become more intense to some degree as a result of warming sea temperatures." We suggest that it is more useful to regard the extreme circulation regime or weather event as being largely unaffected by climate change, and question whether known changes in the climate system's thermodynamic state affected the impact of the particular event," stated one paper produced by researchers at the National Center for Atmospheric Research. The researchers added: "Some examples briefly illustrated include 'snowmaggedon' in February 2010, Superstorm Sandy in October 2012 and supertyphoon Haiyan in November 2013, and, in more detail, the Boulder floods of September 2013, all of which were influenced by high sea surface temperatures that had a discernible human component." The Green New Deal backed by de Blasio has not attracted universal support even among Democrats, after the resolution's botched rollout in Congress earlier this year included the release of an official document by New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's office that promised economic security even for those "unwilling to work," as well as the elimination of "farting cows" and air travel. The Democratic mayor on Thursday first announced his plan to meet the "existential threat" of climate change, specifically by extending a section of the lower Manhattan coastline as much as 500 feet into the East River. He said the $10 billion effort to protect lower Manhattan from flooding by extending the shoreline between the Brooklyn Bridge and the Battery will be funded partly by private development if federal funds are not available. WHAT DOES TRUMP ADMIN'S OWN CLIMATE CHANGE REPORT SAY IS COMING?"If there's federal money in play, it probably looks one way," de Blasio said last week. "If there's not federal money in play, we have to get some private money into it and there has to be some development." Officials have been developing schemes to fortify New York City's waterfront since Superstorm Sandy destroyed thousands of homes and businesses in 2012. De Blasio said it will cost about $500 million to fortify most of lower Manhattan from future effects of climate change, including rising sea levels and intense precipitation, with grassy berms and removable barriers. But planners determined that protecting the lowest-lying area, including South Street Seaport and the financial district, will require adding more land over several years. De Blasio, who is contemplating joining the crowded field of 2020 Democratic presidential candidates, said the $10 billion landfill project should be supported by federal funds, but that's unlikely to happen during the administration of Republican President Donald Trump." Lower Manhattan is one of the core centers of the American economy," he said. "It's where the financial capital of the United States is. The security of lower Manhattan should be a national priority. The fact is it is not. And it's incomprehensible to me that there's no sense of urgency from the federal government." He added, "We can't afford to bury our head in the sand and that's right now what our federal government is doing." The plan to extend the coastline will go through the city's environmental review process, de Blasio said, but he hopes to avoid "the endless dragging on that usually accompanies something of this scale." CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPBut the prospect of private development on the newly built land is sure to meet resistance from downtown Manhattan community members. City Council member Margaret Chin, who represents the area, said a more resilient future "cannot be paid for by private real estate development that would destroy the waterfront neighborhoods that we are trying to protect." De Blasio announced the climate resilience plan at a news conference after previewing it in New York magazine ." This is the existential threat," de Blasio said. "This is the core issue we all must face as aggressively as humanly possible." The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False
149	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-03-21	Once dubbed the "celebrities' choice in offset providers," NativeEnergy provides third-party verification of how its offsets are used and boasts a high score as a benefit corporation ― a sort of LEED certification of for-profit companies that pay employees decent wages and provide measurable value to society.	Carbon emissions from campaign travel first became an issue during the 2004 election, when the NRDC Action Fund, an affiliate of the Natural Resources Defense Council, began raising concerns about the huge amount of fuel candidates burned crisscrossing the country.	Climate change is already a central plank of Sanders' second White House bid.	Sanders' announcement steels the campaign against accusations of hypocrisy, often made by Republicans who take an ideological stance against the scientific realities of climate change.	The announcement boosts Sanders' bona fides on the issue and gives him a leg up in a crowded field of Democrats putting more attention on climate change than ever before.		Bernie Sanders Campaign Becomes 2020's First To Promise To Offset Carbon Emissions In a statement to HuffPost, the campaign said it plans to fund renewable energy projects to compensate for the carbon dioxide spewed by the planes and automobiles in which Sanders and his staff will travel while they barnstorm the nation ahead of the Democratic National Convention in July 2020." ernie Sanders is a champion in the fight for climate justice and, like him, we know we need to address our emissions through action, not just rhetoric," Faiz Shakir, Sanders' campaign manager, said in a statement. "We are proud to lead the way in the fight against climate change by acting boldly to move our energy system away from fossil fuels and towards sustainable energy sources." Climate change is already a central plank of Sanders' second White House bid. In December, two months before he announced his candidacy, the senator from Vermont hosted a televised town hall with climate scientists and advocates to discuss the crisis. In February, he attacked Trump for ignoring climate change in his State of the Union address. During his stump speeches, Sanders routinely skewers the fossil fuel industry and promises to enact a Green New Deal if elected. The announcement boosts Sanders' bona fides on the issue and gives him a leg up in a crowded field of Democrats putting more attention on climate change than ever before. The move comes a week after the Sanders campaign became the first to unionize. Sanders has also drawn heat recently for his uncertain stance on reparations for the descendants of slaves and for quietly hiring a journalist who frequently attacked his 2020 opponents on Twitter as an adviser. Carbon offsets represent a drop in the bucket on an issue that requires unprecedented systemic change to avert climate disaster. But transportation emissions make up the largest share of the United States' climate pollution. Sanders' announcement steels the campaign against accusations of hypocrisy, often made by Republicans who take an ideological stance against the scientific realities of climate change. The Sanders campaign is buying carbon offsets from Vermont-based NativeEnergy, the same company Clinton used three years ago. Once dubbed the "celebrities' choice in offset providers," NativeEnergy provides third-party verification of how its offsets are used and boasts a high score as a benefit corporation ― a sort of LEED certification of for-profit companies that pay employees decent wages and provide measurable value to society. Though founded and run by a former utility lawyer, the company, as its name suggests, transferred a majority stake in its ownership to a consortium of Native American tribes in 2005. Carbon emissions from campaign travel first became an issue during the 2004 election, when the NRDC Action Fund, an affiliate of the Natural Resources Defense Council, began raising concerns about the huge amount of fuel candidates burned crisscrossing the country. In 2007, former Iowa Gov. Tom Vilsack became the first presidential contender to go carbon neutral. John Edwards followed soon after. By 2008, both Democrat Barack Obama and Republican John McCain "rushed to put themselves on a carbon diet," according to MSNBC. During the 2016 Democratic primary, Sanders clashed with Clinton over climate change, attacking her support for increased gas drilling in a heated debate. After Clinton clinched the nomination, the issue disappeared, without a single question asked during three debates between Clinton and her Republican opponent, Donald Trump. We are proud to lead the way in the fight against climate change by acting boldly to move our energy system away from fossil fuels and towards sustainable energy sources. Nearly every major declared contender for the Democratic nomination has expressed support for the Green New Deal, a movement calling for a sweeping national industrial policy that zeroes out greenhouse gases over a decade, guarantees clean-energy jobs to millions and puts the country on course to generate as close to 100 percent of its electricity from renewables as possible in a decade. In a first, Washington Gov. Jay Inslee is centering his entire campaign on climate change, vowing to make it his priority if nominated. He joined Sanders, Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-Hawaii) in signing the No Fossil Fuel Money pledge, an oath promising to reject donations from the oil, gas and coal companies and their executives. The newfound attention on climate change comes after the United Nations' stark warning in October that world governments have roughly a decade to halve global emissions or face an average temperature increase of at least 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit ― about half-a-degree Celisus more than what the world experiences today. Warming beyond that level is forecast to cause catastrophic flooding, droughts and extreme weather, with economic damages topping $54 trillion.	False
569	rt	questionable_source	2018-10-18	Think your friends would be interested?	Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA) said Democrats should "focus on the practical and the opportunistic" in the short term while working toward big-picture "aspirational goals" in the long term.	Meanwhile, he doesn't want to "sacrifice the economic well-being of our country for something that nobody really knows."	Trump may believe in climate change now, but he remains convinced that scientists who see a human role in the process have "a very big political agenda."	While he has backed away from a 2012 claim that the concept was "created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing noncompetitive," he is now convinced that "something's changing and it'll change back again," according to an interview he gave with 60 Minutes on Sunday.		'It'll change back?' Trump mocked for his 'natural instinct for science' on climate change While a sobering new UN report on climate change indicates humans might have little time to change our ways to avoid environmental catastrophe, President Trump isn't worried, pointing to scientists "on both sides of the picture." Referencing an uncle who was a professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (whom he never spoke to about climate change) as apparent proof of his scientific bona fides, Trump told the Associated Press that he has "a natural instinct for science" and that the climate goes "back and forth, back and forth." The US president remains unconvinced that human activity is the cause of climate change. While he has backed away from a 2012 claim that the concept was "created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing noncompetitive," he is now convinced that "something's changing and it'll change back again," according to an interview he gave with 60 Minutes on Sunday. Trump's appointee to the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, notoriously attempted to roll back several key environmental regulations passed under Barack Obama, including the Clean Power Plan, the Clean Water Rule, and a proposed ban on the pesticide chlorpyrifos. Pruitt also oversaw a 23 percent budget cut to the agency and filled science advisory panels with industry representatives instead of unaffiliated scientists. Trump may believe in climate change now, but he remains convinced that scientists who see a human role in the process have "a very big political agenda." Meanwhile, he doesn't want to "sacrifice the economic well-being of our country for something that nobody really knows." While some Democrats favor bold moves to address climate change, others – perhaps still shell-shocked by the failure of their 2009 cap-and-trade bill under Obama – shy away from anything more than incremental measures, citing the "hostile" political environment in Congress. Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA) said Democrats should "focus on the practical and the opportunistic" in the short term while working toward big-picture "aspirational goals" in the long term. Some might argue the concept of a "long term," when it comes to the environment, was rendered irrelevant by the latest UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report. It projected that humans have until 2030 to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions if we want to avoid catastrophic climate change in the form of massive sea level rise, increased drought, permafrost melt, and coral reef die-offs. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False
611	TheBlaze	right_bias	2017-06-03	They examined the lives of billionaire businessmen Richard Branson, Elon Musk and Bill Gates, in addition to Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Hillary Clinton."	"To answer that question, Carlson said his team compared what the progressives say to how they live.	You can tell by the outraged looks on their faces and the purple rhetoric," Carlson said.	Carlson continued."	Progressives across the country and around the world expressed outrage this week over Trump's decision to withdraw from the agreement.		Watch: It takes Tucker Carlson just 90 seconds to completely destroy liberal hypocrisy on climate change When it comes to unraveling liberal hypocrisy, Fox News host Tucker Carlson is arguably the best man for the job. And on his show Friday, it took Carlson just 90 seconds to completely dismantle liberal outrage over President Donald Trump's decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement on climate change. Progressives across the country and around the world expressed outrage this week over Trump's decision to withdraw from the agreement. But many of those expressing outrage, including world famous Hollywood actors and businessmen, typically fly around the world in private jets that expel mind-boggling amounts of carbon dioxide — the exact substance climate alarmists say is the cause of climate change. Carlson explained on his show Friday that despite the fact that those upset about Trump's decision have not "bothered to explain what's actually in" the Paris agreement, "they assure us that that deal is the solution to the single most gravest threat this planet has ever faced: rising levels of atmospheric CO2." They're dead serious about that. You can tell by the outraged looks on their faces and the purple rhetoric," Carlson said. "But hold on for a minute. Can we really be sure that these people take carbon emissions seriously?"To answer that question, Carlson said his team compared what the progressives say to how they live. They examined the lives of billionaire businessmen Richard Branson, Elon Musk and Bill Gates, in addition to Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Hillary Clinton." ranson says fossil fuels are 'dangerous' and he calls Trump's decision 'America first, Earth last.' Now on the other hand, Branson owes a Desault Falcon 50EX private jet and it burns more fuel on a single flight to Maui than you're gonna go through in a lifetime of trips to the shore," Carlson explained." lon Musk, meanwhile, is mad about global warming too. Yet he flies around in a Gulfstream G6500ER. Bill Gates says he's 'deeply concerned' yet he still commutes in a $62 million bombardier BD700 global express. Can you imagine the gas milage that gets?" Carlson continued." eonardo DiCaprio says Trump's move threatens the 'livability of our planet' and yet DiCaprio flew a private jet 4,000 miles from Cannes, France, to New York to accept a climate award — and then flew back privately," Carlson went on to explain." illary Clinton tweeted that Trump's pullout was a 'historic mistake that leaves American workers and families behind.' And yet, speaking of workers and their families, there probably weren't a lot of those onboard last year when Hillary used a private jet to fly 20 miles from Martha's Vineyard to Nantucket for a fundraiser," Carlson added. Trump announced his decision to withdraw the U.S. from the climate deal, which was agreed to under former President Barack Obama, on Thursday.	True
500	npr	left_center_bias	2018-10-25	They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes, most of them bad for growing corn.	Nothing says Iowa quite like fields of corn.	Many fruit trees, including peaches, have a peculiar requirement.	Here are five foods, and food-growing places, that will see the impact.	So what will replace corn on Iowa's fertile land?		5 Major Crops In The Crosshairs Of Climate Change 5 Major Crops In The Crosshairs Of Climate ChangeClimate change is coming like a freight train, or a rising tide. And our food, so dependent on rain and suitable temperatures, sits right in its path. The plants that nourish us won't disappear entirely. But they may have to move to higher and cooler latitudes, or farther up a mountainside. Some places may find it harder to grow anything at all, because there's not enough water. Here are five foods, and food-growing places, that will see the impact. Wheat, source of bread and a foundation of life in much of the world, will suffer from hotter temperatures — and the country where the impact may be greatest also is among least well-equipped to cope with a shortfall. India is likely to see a large drop in wheat production due to heat stress — about 8 percent if average global temperatures rise by 1 degree Celsius, according to one recent study. Temperatures are expected to rise more than that; according to a recent report from the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, limiting climate change to 1.5 degrees Celsius will require heroic and dramatic action. It will take significant cuts in greenhouse gas emissions within 15 years, plus efforts to recapture some of the carbon that's already been emitted, perhaps by planting new forests. Globally, though, wheat may not be in short supply in a warmer world. Russia, which is already a major wheat exporter, may be able to expand the amount of land devoted to this crop. Despite Georgia's claim to be the Peach State, California is the country's biggest peach producer. Farmers there grow about half of the country's fresh peaches, and almost all of the fruit that's canned and processed in other ways. Many fruit trees, including peaches, have a peculiar requirement. If they don't experience enough chill during wintertime, they get confused and don't bloom properly. No bloom, no harvest. The peach trees currently grown in California's Central Valley require about 700 "chilling hours" during the winter. But scientists are predicting that by the end of the century, only 10 percent of the valley will reliably see that much chilling. And even if plant breeders create peach varieties that need less chilling, there's another problem: Peach trees also yield less fruit when it gets too hot in summertime. Coffee can't take freezing temperatures, but it doesn't like extreme heat, either — at least the highly prized Arabica type doesn't. So it's mainly grown on relatively cool mountainsides in the tropics. Brazil is the biggest coffee producer in the world, by far, but as the globe warms up, most of its main coffee-growing regions probably won't be suitable for growing this crop anymore, due to heat as well as more frequent rainstorms. Coffee could move to cooler parts of the country, but researchers don't think those new growing areas will make up for what's lost. Meanwhile, rising temperatures could threaten native coffee trees that grow wild in the forests of Ethiopia and central Africa. The wild trees represent an irreplaceable storehouse of coffee's original genetic diversity. The world's commercial coffee trees are genetically very similar to each other, and those genetically diverse wild trees could be the source of genetic traits that plant breeders may need in order to create commercial trees that can thrive in tomorrow's climate. Some of the wild trees, however, are preserved in "gene banks" in Ethiopia and Latin America. Nothing says Iowa quite like fields of corn. Climate models, though, see a different future. They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes, most of them bad for growing corn. Rain will come less often, and when it comes, the storms will be more intense — neither of which is helpful for a crop that demands frequent rains, but doesn't do a good job of preventing soil erosion. In addition, corn suffers when it gets too hot — especially when it's too hot at night. Add it all up, and one study estimates that corn yields in Iowa will fall substantially, anywhere from 15 percent to an astounding 50 percent. "By 2100, the Corn Belt is going to be in Canada, not in the United States," says Jason Clay, senior vice president for food and markets at the World Wildlife Fund. So what will replace corn on Iowa's fertile land? According to one study, by the end of the century this part of the Midwest will be more suited for growing cotton, soybeans, grass and forests. California, the biggest single source of America's fresh vegetables and nuts, and the primary source of almonds for the entire world, is a dramatic illustration of how subtle shifts in climate can have huge effects. California's farms rely heavily on snow that piles up in the Sierra Nevada mountains during the winter, and then slowly melts during the summer, delivering a vital flow of water to the state's irrigation canals. As the climate warms, though, winter precipitation will arrive more often as rain, and the snow that does fall will melt much more quickly, leaving farmers scrambling for water to keep crops alive in late summer. Also, there will be more variation from year to year; wet years will be wetter, and dry years will be even dryer. Both trends increase the chances that from time to time, farmers will face catastrophic shortages of water. And that's especially bad for tree crops, of which almonds are the biggest, because losing an orchard is much more devastating than losing a single crop of, say, tomatoes. California's farmers may be forced to reduce the amount of land devoted to orchards, since there there's a chance that they will not survive a major drought.	True
618	Drudge Report	right_bias	2017-10-24	"I believe man plays a part in it but not to the extent that others have been talking about - that's what me and Donald Trump were talking about," Eskridge said.	Tangier residents are happy with the attention but believe their problem is simpler.	Often, they say, people object to the idea that humans could possibly change the climate even if they wanted to.	That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change, like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels.	We're not looking to have our light bills cheaper, we're looking to stay here," said Deborah Pruitt, 57, who works at the island's museum, where printouts of news reports about the island are displayed on a wall.		Residents of shrinking island reject 'climate victim' label... TANGIER ISLAND, Va. (Reuters) - This summer, a delegation of Republican climate activists visited Tangier Island, a speck of grassland in Virginia's Chesapeake Bay, to try to convince its 450 residents to take climate change seriously. At a dinner attended by island residents Aug. 2, the activists from RepublicEn headed by former Republican Congressman Bob Inglis laid out the stakes: The sea level is rising, and some scientists estimate that within decades the island, already suffering severe erosion, will need to be abandoned. The people of Tangier Island were used to this kind of message. Former Vice President Al Gore, a prominent Democratic climate activist, had given the same speech to islanders three days earlier. They were also used to rejecting it." We'll talk to everybody," said James Eskridge, mayor of the mainly Republican island community. "But they're not going to change many minds here." Residents, he said, do not believe in climate change: they want a new sea wall to prevent erosion, not a lecture about saving the world with solar panels. Tangier Island's steadfast rejection of climate change reflects the rigidity of American opinions about global warming, often defined along political party lines. Reuters/Ipsos polling shows more than a third of Americans, mainly Republicans, reject the scientific consensus that climate change is driven by human activity. Less than a third of Americans believe global warming poses an imminent threat to the United States. These views barely budged after a series of devastating hurricanes this summer. That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change, like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels. And while conservatives have long been skeptical about climate change, doubters have a powerful new ally: U.S. President Donald Trump. He has called climate change a hoax and has started withdrawing the United States from a global pact to combat it, citing what he calls the huge economic cost. Eskridge told Reuters Trump called him in June after seeing a report about severe erosion problems on the island, telling him not to worry about sea level rise."I believe man plays a part in it but not to the extent that others have been talking about - that's what me and Donald Trump were talking about," Eskridge said.'WE'RE LOOKING TO STAY'An Army Corps of Engineers study in 2015 showed Tangier has lost two thirds of its mass since 1850 because of erosion, a process scientists say is being exacerbated by climate change. Journalists and politicians now view the island as a symbol of the climate crisis. Tangier residents are happy with the attention but believe their problem is simpler. A sea wall built on one side of the island in the late 1980s has prevented the land behind it from eroding, they say, so another sea wall is the answer." We're not looking to have our light bills cheaper, we're looking to stay here," said Deborah Pruitt, 57, who works at the island's museum, where printouts of news reports about the island are displayed on a wall. Conservative climate activists like Rob Sisson of ConservAmerica and Mitch Hescox of the Evangelical Environmental Network said the rejection of climate change by Tangier residents is not surprising: their groups often have trouble convincing fellow Republicans global warming is a real issue. Often, they say, people object to the idea that humans could possibly change the climate even if they wanted to. Florida Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, one of a handful of Republicans to publicly declare a belief in climate change, said she has a strategy for getting fellow Republicans to think of solutions: "I've found that the best way ... is to not dwell on the causes," she said in an email.	False
443	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-10-27	quasi-fascist policy of fear-mongering about immigration and corresponding militarization of the border is clearly the major thrust of Trump's response to the mounting impacts of climate chaos," said Ashley Dawson, author of Extreme Cities: The Peril and Promise of Urban Life in the Age of Climate Change.	"The best way, from a security perspective, is to bolster the resilience of those countries so you reduce the likelihood of instability, reduce the likelihood of conflict and reduce the likelihood of displacement that might force outward migration."	Having missed the chance to seek actual reforms, we now get a militaristic and hasty response to a predictable stress."	Under those conditions, more than 1 billion people globally could be forced to flee their homes by 2050, and 2 billion by 2100.	Trump's Military Response To Migrant Caravan Foreshadows A Dark Long-Term Climate Policy GUILLERMO ARIAS via Getty Images A child in the caravan of roughly 7,200 Central American migrants headed north to the U.S.-Mexico border.		Trump's Military Response To Migrant Caravan Foreshadows A Dark Long-Term Climate Policy GUILLERMO ARIAS via Getty Images A child in the caravan of roughly 7,200 Central American migrants headed north to the U.S.-Mexico border. Now ― with the White House poised to gut the federal government's only two major rules to reduce planet-warming emissions, and Trump threatening to cut aid to drought- and violence-afflicted Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador ― critics say the administration's strategy to deal with climate change is taking shape, frustrating national security experts who say hunkering down and militarizing borders will do little to mitigate global warming's threats."  quasi-fascist policy of fear-mongering about immigration and corresponding militarization of the border is clearly the major thrust of Trump's response to the mounting impacts of climate chaos," said Ashley Dawson, author of Extreme Cities: The Peril and Promise of Urban Life in the Age of Climate Change. Despite the repeated dismissals of climate science by the president and many of his top advisers, the Trump administration officially forecasts that the planet is expected to warm by 7 degrees Fahrenheit by the end of the century ― a projection buried in a 500-page environmental impact statement in August. That's roughly double the temperature scientists say will cause cataclysmic drought, storms and sea level rise, and roughly four times the warming the planet has already experienced since the pre-industrial era. Under those conditions, more than 1 billion people globally could be forced to flee their homes by 2050, and 2 billion by 2100. Tropical regions ― where many of the roughly 20,000 to 40,000 migrants who crossed the U.S. southern border each month in the past year came from ― are expected to be hit the hardest. It's difficult to draw a direct line between climate change and a migrant's decision to leave home, and neither the United Nations nor nearly any other major countries currently offer legal avenues for asylum seekers fleeing the effects of global warming. New Zealand became the first country late last year to create a special status for climate refugees with 100 annual visas as low-lying island nations in its corner of the Pacific face existential threat of sea-level rise. On the opposite side of the ocean, a hotter climate is expected to parch once fertile lands. In an email, Jennifer Francis, a Rutgers University climate researcher, said "it's likely that increasing drought in Central America is making it more difficult for farmers there to make a living." The President had willing partners in Congress and could have worked on immigration, border security, DREAMers and all that," Joseph Majkut, director of climate policy at the Niskanen Center, a libertarian think tank, said in an email. "But he didn't take advantage of that opportunity. Having missed the chance to seek actual reforms, we now get a militaristic and hasty response to a predictable stress." Climate change [is] contributing to make nations unstable, both nations in our neighborhood and others abroad," said Femia, whose Washington-based policy institute includes former top national security advisers. "The best way, from a security perspective, is to bolster the resilience of those countries so you reduce the likelihood of instability, reduce the likelihood of conflict and reduce the likelihood of displacement that might force outward migration." That doesn't seem likely in the near term. The president attempted to cut funding for United States Agency for International Development by 33 percent this year, though bipartisan support for the federal government's dedicated aid agency staved off the proposal. By deporting hundreds of thousands of Central Americans from the United States, the administration, like the Obama administration before it, is bolstering gang recruitment in countries like El Salvador, according to a December report from the International Crisis Group. That worsens the violence that many cite as a main reason for fleeing northward.	False
358	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-09-11	However, all of these proposals remains "magical thinking" at this point, according to an editorial in the journal Nature.	et BECCS plays a very real role in today's climate policy arena," Pielke wrote, "by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and '90s."	University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke, Jr. recently published a paper on the problems with the UN's use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord."	Experts have also suggested reforestation, ocean fertilization and what's known as enhanced weathering.	But how would this even work?		Jerry Brown's Plan For 'Negative' CO2 Emissions Is Based On 'Science Fiction' California Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown issued an executive order Monday mandating "carbon neutrality" by 2045, then ordering the state to "maintain net negative emissions thereafter." Brown's executive order came the same day he signed into law a bill mandating California get 100 percent of its electricity from renewables and "zero-carbon" energy sources. Brown is also preparing to host a global warming activist summit Wednesday." alifornia is committed to doing whatever is necessary to meet the existential threat of climate change," Brown said Monday. "But have no illusions, California and the rest of the world have miles to go before we achieve zero-carbon emissions." Brown is right in one sense. California does have "miles to go" to meet Brown's executive order because it relies on "magical thinking" and "science fiction," according to experts. Existing executive orders call for California to cut greenhouse gas emissions 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050, and state law requires emissions to be cut 40 percent by 2030. However, that's not enough to meet the goals of the Paris climate accord, according to United Nations models. What Brown ordered is not just reducing emissions, but instead implied sucking more greenhouse gas out of the air than human activities in his state put up — and not just for electricity. Brown's order applies to the entire economy, including transportation and agriculture. So what does negative emissions mean in practice? Well, no one really knows, but experts have put forward ideas to suck carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Brown's office said negative emissions would be achieved through "increased carbon sequestration in forests, soils and other natural landscapes," according to its press release. But how would this even work? (RELATED: A New Report Details How Nonprofits Are Funneling Millions To Democratic Governors To Further Their Global Warming Agenda)Scientists have also proposed technologies to literally suck carbon dioxide from the air and store it underground or in the ocean. Experts have also suggested reforestation, ocean fertilization and what's known as enhanced weathering. Enhanced weathering is the rather hilarious idea that one can use rocks to, in effect, store CO2 emissions. In theory, the rocks would react with CO2 and water to form an alkaline solution that leaks into the ocean. However, all of these proposals remains "magical thinking" at this point, according to an editorial in the journal Nature. Enhanced weathering, for example, would require "an area about the size of Texas … of US agricultural land every year" just to "soak up 13% of the annual global emissions from agriculture," according to Nature. Another proposed technology that's cited by the IPCC is bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS). This is basically removing CO2 through growing plants, which are then burned for energy. The emissions are then captured and stored underground. Of course, BECCS is another magical solution that's baked into the IPCC's models of what needs to be done to limit future global warming to 2 degrees Celsius. University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke, Jr. recently published a paper on the problems with the UN's use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord." arbon dioxide removal at massive scale is science fiction — like a light saber, incredible but not real," Pielke wrote." et BECCS plays a very real role in today's climate policy arena," Pielke wrote, "by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and '90s." If nothing else, full implementation of BECCS 'at scale' would require the use of a global land area one and a half times the size of India," Pielke wrote about the staggering environmental cost of "negative emissions" technology. Indeed, the European Academies Science Advisory Council concluded in early 2018 that negative emissions technologies "offer only limited realistic potential to remove carbon from the atmosphere and not at the scale envisaged in some climate scenarios."	False
863	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-09-27	"The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California."	"We're looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward."	"I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get that result."	Brown, one of the most outspoken elected official in the U.S. about the need for policies to combat climate change, would be replicating similar moves by China France and the U.K. "I've gotten messages from the governor asking, 'Why haven't we done something already?'"	Instituting such a policy in California would affect the entire car industry globally, due to the massive size of California's car market.		Jerry Brown Wants to Impose 'China-Style' Ban on Combustion Engine Cars Governor Jerry Brown has expressed an interest in barring the sale of vehicles powered by internal-combustion engines, Mary Nichols, chairman of the California Air Resources Board, said in an interview Friday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. The earliest such a ban is at least a decade away, she said. Brown, one of the most outspoken elected official in the U.S. about the need for policies to combat climate change, would be replicating similar moves by China France and the U.K. "I've gotten messages from the governor asking, 'Why haven't we done something already?'" Nichols said, referring to China's planned phase-out of fossil-fuel vehicle sales. "The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California." "To reach the ambitious levels of reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, we have to pretty much replace all combustion with some form of renewable energy by 2040 or 2050," Nichols said. "We're looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward." Instituting such a policy in California would affect the entire car industry globally, due to the massive size of California's car market. Over 2 million new passenger vehicles were sold and registered in the nation's most populous state last year — more than than the entire nations of Spain, France and Italy. California has had the right to write its own pollution rules since the 1970's under waivers granted by the EPA. But it's unlikely the Trump administration would approve such a plan, forcing California to take a different legal route. According to Motor Trend magazine, Nichols says California is considering regulating the types of cars that can be registered in the state or have access to highways. "We certainly wouldn't expect to get a waiver for that from the EPA," she told Bloomberg. "I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get that result." China plans to end sales of combustion engine vehicles in 2030. Other countries like France and the U.K. plan to follow suit a decade later. California has not yet specified a date to copy China's policy. Tim Donnelly is a former California State Assemblyman and Author, currently on a book tour for his new book: Patriot Not Politician: Win or Go Homeless.  He also ran for governor in 2014.	False
242	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-08-30	"Climate Justice."	"When do we want it?	The speaker listed the group's demands, which will be presented at the U.N. summit: "A just and livable world" where "fossil fuels are left out of every decision" around the world; 100 percent renewable energy around the globe; and "holding polluters accountable" for causing the "climate crisis."	"It is not a coincidence.	The youths held signs that read "Greed Kills," "Help My Home is on Fire," and "527 Years of Indigenous Resistance" and chanted in between speeches phrases such as:"What do we want?"		Greta Thunberg Mum as Climate Activist Proclaims 'We Cannot Live in a World that Is Melting' "We cannot live in a world that is burning," one young woman said, "that is melting." Climate change is already affecting millions of people," another young woman claimed. "This could lead to mass extinction." We are not here to guilt individuals that forgot to recycle a cup last week," another young woman said. "We are here to hold cowardice [sic] politicians accountable who have caused this damage by turning their heads in fear." Those 12 years left (to stop carbon emissions)," a young woman yelled. "Is now down to 10 years and five months." One young woman said she wanted to acknowledge Hurricane Dorian, a storm that is still in the Atlantic Ocean and is not expected to make landfall somewhere in Florida until early next week." t is ravaging the coast of Florida," the girl said. "It is not a coincidence. It is a direct impact of the climate crisis." The youths held signs that read "Greed Kills," "Help My Home is on Fire," and "527 Years of Indigenous Resistance" and chanted in between speeches phrases such as:"What do we want?" "Climate Justice." "When do we want it? Now." No more coal, no more oil, keep your carbon in the soil," and "Waters are rising, people are dying."A speaker said that the protest was not the goal of the movement by a "catalyst" for action, including a planned "global climate strike" on September 20, just three days ahead of a U.N. climate summit that is expected to draw leaders from around the world and where Thunberg will be a special guest and speaker. The speaker listed the group's demands, which will be presented at the U.N. summit: "A just and livable world" where "fossil fuels are left out of every decision" around the world; 100 percent renewable energy around the globe; and "holding polluters accountable" for causing the "climate crisis." The publicist for the New York City protest refused to speak with Breitbart News when an inquiry was made about Thunberg's appearance and about Alexandria Villaseñor, a 14-year-old who claims she has been protesting every Friday at the United Nations for 38 weeks. Reporters on the scene were kept from interviewing Thunberg during the protest. Thunberg gained international attention when she cut school a year ago to appear before the Swedish parliament where she called on young people around the world to cut school every Friday to protest climate change. It is not clear how many students in New York are still on summer break or skipped classes, but Thunberg's publicity team announced that the 16-year-old is taking a "sabbatical" from her high school studies to "concentrate on her activism." After attending the U.N. summit, Thunberg and her father will travel in the United States, Canada, and Mexico before attending a second U.N. climate change summit in Chile in December. Thunberg has said she is not sure how she will get back to Sweden, and no details have been released on how she will travel around the North and South American continents without the help of fossil-fuel-powered transportation.	True
123	motherjones	left_bias	2019-07-31	"I have a plan for a green industrial policy that takes advantage of the fact that we do what we do best, and that is innovate and create."	The relatively brief segment devoted to climate change Tuesday is unlikely to satisfy environmental activists.	"But I think they need more time to state the case."	Climate change has consistently ranked as one of the top concerns among Democratic primary voters—and polls suggest that Trump's climate denial is deeply unpopular.	"The climate crisis is the existential crisis for our world," she said.		The Democrats Finally Debated the Green New Deal The Democratic candidates sounded the alarm on climate change in the first presidential debates, but the discussion in June was so limited that they never really got into the details of how they'd solve the crisis. It was a different story this time around. It took more than an hour to get there Tuesday night, but during the 12 minutes of discussion of global warming policy, two of the frontrunners—Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders—became the first candidates to substantively embrace versions of a Green New Deal in the debates. The concept of a Green New Deal—pushed by lawmakers like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.)—has become a favorite idea for progressives. It outlines a vision for economic, infrastructure, and clean energy investment while aggressively ramping down to net-zero emissions as soon as possible. Elizabeth Warren didn't actually use the words "Green Neal Deal" or tout AOC's specific resolution Tuesday night, but she did capture its ethos by touting her plan for investing $2 trillion over 10 years in green manufacturing. "The climate crisis is the existential crisis for our world," she said. "I have a plan for a green industrial policy that takes advantage of the fact that we do what we do best, and that is innovate and create." She promised that her plan would produce roughly 1.2 million manufacturing jobs. "This could revitalize huge cities across this country," she added. Bernie Sanders also embraced the Green New Deal on stage, albeit briefly. "The Green New Deal is a bold idea," he said. "We can create millions of good paying jobs. We can rebuild communities in rural America that have been devastated." As he often does, Sanders pledged to fight back against the fossil fuel industry, noting that it continues to receive tax breaks and subsidies adding up to hundreds of billions of dollars globally. "I get a little bit tired of Democrats afraid of big ideas. Republicans are not afraid of big ideas," he said.  "Please don't tell me that we cannot take on the fossil fuel industry." Other candidates on stage were far more critical of Green New Deal policies. Former Maryland Rep. John Delaney pointed to his plan for a carbon price and investing in technology to capture carbon from the air. But, he argued, a Green New Deal would tie progress on climate to "other things that are completely unrelated to climate like universal health care and guaranteed jobs." Former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper—who has advocated working collaboratively with the oil and gas industry to address climate change—called Green New Deal proposals "a disaster at the ballot box." You might as well FedEx the election to Donald Trump," Hickenlooper said. Montana Gov. Steve Bullock expressed doubt that such an ambitious program could make it through Congress. "Let's not just talk about plans that are written for press releases that will go nowhere else if we can't even get a Republican to acknowledge that the climate is changing," he said. Nearly every Democratic presidential candidate has now released a climate change plan, or at least part of a plan. Climate change has consistently ranked as one of the top concerns among Democratic primary voters—and polls suggest that Trump's climate denial is deeply unpopular. The relatively brief segment devoted to climate change Tuesday is unlikely to satisfy environmental activists. They have pressed for an official DNC climate change debate because, they argue, it's needed to finally allot candidates the time to debate their plans in depth—and to highlight the fact that President Donald Trump has no answers himself." rankly, I don't think we see an indicator that candidates aren't willing to talk about solutions," Greenpeace's US climate campaigns director Janet Redman told me after the last debate in June. "But I think they need more time to state the case."	False
501	yahoonews	left_center_bias	2018-03-13	Naomi Ages, the climate director of Greenpeace USA, was similarly perturbed."	Tiernan Sittenfeld, senior vice president of government affairs for the League of Conservation Voters, said in a statement that Pompeo's nomination is profoundly disturbing but not unexpected."	hough not surprising, this is extremely troubling.	He also suggested that a carbon tax may be the best way to limit the greenhouse-gas emissions driving global warming.	Climate change is one of the most critical threats facing our nation and world, and the secretary of state has a huge responsibility to make sure it is addressed by the global community," she said.		For climate hawks, firing Tillerson is a case of &apos;be careful what you wish for&apos; Secretary of State Rex Tillerson arrives at a meeting of the National Space Council in Chantilly, Va., on Oct. 5, 2017. (Photo: Andrew Harnik/AP)President Trump's dismissal of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson Tuesday morning fulfilled a long-held wish for climate advocates, but they fear his replacement, CIA Director Mike Pompeo, will be even worse. Tillerson joined Exxon in 1975 and rose through the ranks over the decades. He was CEO and chairman of ExxonMobil from 2006 until he joined the Trump administration in 2017. That Trump would nominate a lifelong oilman to succeed John Kerry, who led the U.S. through the Paris climate negotiations of late 2015, as the nation's top diplomat resulted in predictable and fierce pushback. During his confirmation hearing in January 2017, however, Tillerson told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that he thought the United States should stay in the Paris Agreement, which strives to reduce global warming to 2°C (3.6°F). He also suggested that a carbon tax may be the best way to limit the greenhouse-gas emissions driving global warming. Pompeo, on the other hand, identified with the tea party and represented Kansas's Fourth Congressional District from 2011 to 2017. He received more financial backing from Koch Industries, an energy and natural resources conglomerate, than any other candidate in the 2010 elections: $80,000. In fact, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a bipartisan research group that tracks the effect of lobbying on elections and policy, Pompeo has received more money from Koch interests than any other House member. In just four election cycles (2010, 2012, 2014, 2016), he received the following: $335,000 from Koch Industries employees, which includes $92,000 from the Koch family; $69,000 from the Koch Industries PAC; $417,175 from Americans for Prosperity, an advocacy group funded by the Kochs; and $87,532 from other organizations with substantial funding by the Koch brothers. And Pompeo turned to the Koch brothers, who actively oppose climate change legislation, for money long before running for office. In the late '90s, Koch Industries invested in an aerospace company Pompeo founded with fellow West Point alumni. He sold his interest in Thayer Aerospace in 2006 and became president of Sentry International, which produces and sells oil field equipment. In short, even though environmentalists adamantly opposed Tillerson, they do not expect anything positive for the climate from Pompeo. Jake Schmidt, the international program director at the Natural Resources Defense Council, released the following statement: "Replacing the man from Big Oil with a first-class climate denier simply goes from bad to worse. This shuffling of the deck chairs will ensure that Washington continues to bring up the rear when it comes to international action to combat dangerous climate change." Tiernan Sittenfeld, senior vice president of government affairs for the League of Conservation Voters, said in a statement that Pompeo's nomination is profoundly disturbing but not unexpected." hough not surprising, this is extremely troubling. Climate change is one of the most critical threats facing our nation and world, and the secretary of state has a huge responsibility to make sure it is addressed by the global community," she said. "With a history of questioning the science of climate change, a close relationship with the polluter Koch brothers and lifetime LCV score of 4%, Mike Pompeo has no business becoming the next secretary of state." Naomi Ages, the climate director of Greenpeace USA, was similarly perturbed." onald Trump has now somehow picked someone even worse than Rex Tillerson to run the State Department. Greenpeace has been opposed to Tillerson as secretary of state from the moment he was nominated, and we continue to believe that the U.S. government cannot and should not be run by fossil-fuel industry flunkies," Ages said in a statement. "Mike Pompeo, though, is uniquely unqualified to be secretary of state in an entirely different way than Rex Tillerson was. In addition to being a climate denier, like his predecessor, Pompeo is Koch brothers' shill who will denigrate the United States' reputation abroad and make us vulnerable to threats at home." Rep. Barbara Lee, D-Calif., also took issue with Pompeo's past statements on climate change.	False
595	Drudge Report	right_bias	2017-09-26	"The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California."	here are people who believe, including who work for me, that you could stop all sales of new internal-combustion cars by 2030.	"We're looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward."	Some people say 2035, some people say 2040," she said.	"I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get to that result."		California Considers Following China With Combustion-Engine Car Ban... The internal combustion engine's days may be numbered in California, where officials are mulling whether a ban on sales of polluting autos is needed to achieve long-term targets for cleaner air. Governor Jerry Brown has expressed an interest in barring the sale of vehicles powered by internal-combustion engines, Mary Nichols, chairman of the California Air Resources Board, said in an interview Friday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. The earliest such a ban is at least a decade away, she said. Brown, one of the most outspoken elected official in the U.S. about the need for policies to combat climate change, would be replicating similar moves by China, France and the U.K." 've gotten messages from the governor asking, 'Why haven't we done something already?'" Nichols said, referring to China's planned phase-out of fossil-fuel vehicle sales. "The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California." Embracing such a policy would send shockwaves through the global car industry due to the heft of California's auto market. More than 2 million new passenger vehicles were registered in the state last year, topping France, Italy or Spain. If a ban were implemented, automakers from General Motors Co. to Toyota Motor Corp. would be under new pressure to make electric vehicles the standard for personal transportation in the most populous U.S. state, casting fresh doubts on the future of gasoline- and diesel-powered autos elsewhere. The Association of Global Automakers said consumers must be able to afford the cleaner cars that California says are needed to meet its climate goals. The trade association represents Toyota, Honda Motor Co. and other overseas carmakers in the U.S." We have been working with California on intelligent, market-based approaches to emissions reductions beyond 2025, and we hope that this doesn't signal an abandonment of that position," Global Automakers Chief Executive Officer John Bozzella said in a statement. California has set a goal to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 80 percent from 1990 levels by 2050. Rising emissions from on-road transportation has undercut the state's efforts to reduce pollution, according to Next 10, San Francisco-based non-profit." o reach the ambitious levels of reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, we have to pretty much replace all combustion with some form of renewable energy by 2040 or 2050," Nichols said. "We're looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward." California has the authority to write its own pollution rules, which dates back to the 1970 Clean Air Act. Those rules are underpinned by waivers granted by the Environmental Protection Agency. Nichols said the state would likely take a different legal route to enable a possible ban rather than use an EPA waiver, since the Trump administration would be unlikely to approve one. For example, California could use vehicle registration rules or control the vehicles that can access state highways, she said." e certainly wouldn't expect to get a waiver for that from EPA," Nichols said. "I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get to that result." Read more: California Sets Demands for Auto-Emission Talks With TrumpChina will likely order an end to sales of all polluting vehicles by 2030, the chairman of electric-carmaker BYD Co. said Thursday. France and the U.K. have announced 2040 as their end date for sales of fossil fuel-powered cars.A ban for California could also still be decades away from implementation, and just how far out remains to be seen, Nichols said." here are people who believe, including who work for me, that you could stop all sales of new internal-combustion cars by 2030. Some people say 2035, some people say 2040," she said. "It's awfully hard to predict any of that with precision, but it doesn't appear to be out of the question."	False
211	theguardian	left_center_bias	2019-11-04	Local action by itself is not likely to be enough."	They called the Paris agreement, "a start, not a finish line," but "the best ignition switch the world could agree on to spark international cooperation on this critical issue".	limate change is already affecting every sector and region of the United States, as hundreds of top scientists from 13 federal agencies made clear in a report the White House itself released last year," they said.	Without steep pollution reductions, climate change will risk tens of thousands of US lives every year by the end of the century."	Jean Su, energy director with the Center for Biological Diversity's Climate Law Institute, said: "America is the number one historical contributor to the climate emergency wreaking havoc in burning California, the flooded Southeast and the rest of the world."		Trump begins year-long process to formally exit Paris climate agreement Donald Trump is moving to formally exit the Paris climate agreement, making the United States the only country in the world that will not participate in the pact, as global temperatures are set to rise 3C and worsening extreme weather will drive millions into poverty. The paperwork sent by the US government to withdraw begins a one-year process for exiting the deal agreed to at the UN climate change conference in Paris in 2015. The Trump administration will not be able to finalize its exit until a day after the presidential election in November 2020. The secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, announced the development on Monday afternoon, saying the agreement would be an "unfair economic burden imposed on American workers, businesses and taxpayers" and that the US has already reduced its heat-trapping emissions. But organizers of local city and state efforts to curb the crisis across America say the US is still trying to play a role in fighting the climate crisis, despite the actions of the federal government. Carl Pope, vice chair of the group America's Pledge, said its members – who are vowing to keep fighting the climate emergency – produce more than half the country's heat-trapping emissions and represent about 70% of the US gross domestic product. Another organization, the US Climate Alliance, includes the governors of 25 states, representing 55% of the US population. In the Paris agreement, the US agreed to cut its heat-trapping pollution at least 26% below 2005 levels by 2025. Dozens of countries are also pursuing goals to reach net-zero emissions by 2050. But they represent only about 11% of the world's climate footprint and exclude the biggest emitters: China, the US and India. Staying on par with those more advanced countries would require the US government to eliminate pollution from coal and natural gas powered electricity plants, transportation, manufacturing facilities and agriculture. Local action by itself is not likely to be enough." e don't think it's likely just with the states we have, we think we need the whole country to be moving together," Pope said. Jean Su, energy director with the Center for Biological Diversity's Climate Law Institute, said: "America is the number one historical contributor to the climate emergency wreaking havoc in burning California, the flooded Southeast and the rest of the world." The next president must repay this extraordinary climate debt by rapidly moving America to 100% clean energy and financing the decarbonization of the Global South," Su said, referring to the developing world. In addition, the Trump administration has also pulled US funding commitments to help the developing world cut pollution. John Kerry and Chuck Hagel, president Barack Obama's secretaries of state and defense respectively, in a Washington Post op-ed, called it a "dark day for America"." limate change is already affecting every sector and region of the United States, as hundreds of top scientists from 13 federal agencies made clear in a report the White House itself released last year," they said. "The past five years were the warmest ever recorded. Without steep pollution reductions, climate change will risk tens of thousands of US lives every year by the end of the century." They called the Paris agreement, "a start, not a finish line," but "the best ignition switch the world could agree on to spark international cooperation on this critical issue". Senator Tom Carper, the top Democrat on the Senate environment panel, said: "Once again, President Trump is abandoning our global allies for the sake of misplaced political gain. Now America stands alone – nearly 200 countries have joined this global commitment to fighting climate change, even global pariahs like North Korea and civil war-torn countries like Syria." Carper said Trump is abandoning "tremendous economic opportunity" and public health benefits. Trumphas alternately ignored or denied the climate crisis. His agencies are nixing regulations for power plants and cars, and bolstering fossil fuels whenever possible. He promised, to widespread dismay, to exit the Paris agreement during his campaign. The Democratic 2020 election frontrunners challenging Trump have all said they would set the country on a path to neutralize its climate pollution by 2050. Nate Hultman, director of the University of Maryland's center for global sustainability and lead author of this year's America's Pledge report, pointed to new laws in New Mexico, Nevada, Washington, Maine, New York, Washington DC, and Puerto Rico for 100% clean energy targets. Hawaii and California already had such laws. Together, they represent 16% of the nation's electricity, more than doubling the share from 2018, he said." nother way to think about it is that Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement is supported in reality by only about 30% of the economy and 35% of the population," Hultman said. Even once the US withdraws, the country can participate as an observer in international climate negotiations. But despite the efforts of subnational governments, recent analysis shows the US is still far off track from its commitments, regardless of whether Trump pulled out. The US is also far from neutralizing climate emissions by the middle of the century, which as many experts say will be necessary for all countries in order to avert the worst of the crisis." e can still get there with a serious shift in policy in the coming years," said Kate Larsen, director of Rhodium's international energy and climate research.	False
207	pbs	left_center_bias	2019-05-27	She attributed the result to young people's fears about globalwarming."	he French sent us a very clear message: they want environment to be at theheart of our lives, at the heart of the political game and that message hasbeen spread across Europe," he said."	he climate issue is super important at the moment," Tran said.	think people realize that there are issues you can't solve at the nationallevel," he said.	"Peopledidn't take to the streets to elect or kick out a party, but for theseproblems to be solved."		Europe wakes up to climate concerns after 'green wave' in vote BERLIN — Green parties in Germany, France, Britain and elsewhere celebratedbig gains in elections for the 751-seat European Parliament amid growing voterconcerns over climate change, expressed in large-scale student protests overrecent months. Provisional results Monday showed the left-leaning Greens' bloc coming fourthin the election with 69 seats, an increase of 17 compared with 2014. Ifconfirmed, the results could put the Greens in a position to tip the scaleswhen it comes to choosing the next head of the European Commission. The rise of the Greens, with their distinctly pro-European Union stance, marksa counterpoint to that of the far-right, anti-migrant parties that have beengrowing in popularity across Europe in recent years." hoever wants legitimacy from us and the legitimacy of the many who went ontothe streets will need to deliver now," said Sven Giegold, a leading candidatefor the German Green party that scooped up more than 20% of the votenationwide, an increase of almost 10% compared with 2014.)The drift from the traditional heavyweight parties to the Greens in Germanywas particularly pronounced in large cities such as Berlin, Munich andHamburg, and among young voters, where the party beat its bigger rivals amongall voters under 60, according to the Infratest dimap research institute. Armin Laschet, the governor of Germany's most populous state, North Rhine-Westphalia, and a member of Chancellor Angela Merkel's center-right Unionbloc, called the outcome "a wake-up call for politics." In neighboring France, 25% of voters aged 18-25 voted for the Greens, comparedwith 15% for the far-right National Rally and 12% for President EmmanuelMacron's Republic on the Move, according to the Ifop polling organization. Overall, the French green party EELV received almost 13.5% of the vote, comingthird. Yannick Jadot, lead candidate of EELV, welcomed the "great green wave" inEurope." he French sent us a very clear message: they want environment to be at theheart of our lives, at the heart of the political game and that message hasbeen spread across Europe," he said." he very good score of the greens in Germany, Luxembourg, Belgium and Francesends a signal that the center of gravity of the European politics isshifting, that in addition to the populists and the pro-business (parties),there are the Greens," Jadot said. Green parties also polled strongly in Austria, Sweden, Ireland, Denmark andthe Netherlands. In Britain, the Greens — a largely insignificant forcenationally — took 11 seats in the European Parliament vote." his was kind of a vote for all europhile and pro-integration positions theGreens have championed," Martin Florack, a political scientist at theUniversity of Duisburg-Essen, told German public broadcaster ARD. The enmity was reflected in comments by Alexander Gauland, the co-leader ofthe far-right Alternative for Germany party, who declared the Greens "our mainenemy" on Monday." he Greens will destroy this country and our job must and will be to fightthe Greens," said Gauland, whose party has claimed climate change isn't a man-made phenomenon but instead caused by factors such as solar activity, a theorymost scientists dismiss.A senior member of the anti-immigration and euroskeptic Danish People's Party,Kenneth Kristensen Berth, said the issues of the climate and the environmentwere "a bit hysterical" during the election, but insisted that Denmark'ssecond-largest political group "is not a climate-denial party." Among those celebrating the Greens' rise was Biggi Tran, a 26-year-old inBerlin. She attributed the result to young people's fears about globalwarming." he climate issue is super important at the moment," Tran said. Manuel Rivera, a Green party member in the Germany capital, said the EuropeanParliament was the right place to tackle climate change."  think people realize that there are issues you can't solve at the nationallevel," he said. Giegold, the German Greens' lead candidate, said voters expect the party todeliver on its environmental pledges, not secure powerful posts in theexecutive European Commission." cross Europe this was a vote to protect the climate," he said. "Peopledidn't take to the streets to elect or kick out a party, but for theseproblems to be solved." Green lawmakers in the European Parliament plan to scrutinize the bloc's 200billion euro ($223.7 billion) agriculture budget, which environmentalists sayplaces too much emphasis on large-scale farming and not enough on eco-friendlyagriculture, he said. The Greens also want every law passed at the EU-level to undergo a climatecheck. The party has strongly backed scientists' calls for the bloc to end allgreenhouse gas emissions by mid-century. Achieving this goal would require a drastic shift in Europe's economy, awayfrom fossil fuels to clean energy and low-carbon lifestyles. Some measuresproposed for cutting emissions have already faced strong headwind, includingMacron's plan for a fuel tax hike in France that triggered protests fromworkers even as environmentalists accused the president of not doing enoughfor the climate._Sylvie Corbet in Paris, and Kirsten Grieshaber in Berlin, contributed to thisreport._	False
558	rt	questionable_source	2018-10-12	Others were less accusatory."	It's the damage we are doing to the planet," one Twitter user noted in response to the Now This video."	Social media users appeared to largely line up behind the allegations hurled at Scott – although some seemed unconvinced that the governor was at fault."	the commentary, penned by John Abraham, a professor of thermal sciences, asks rhetorically.	And we are reaping what we sow," the subhead states matter-of-factly.		Media storm targets Gov. Rick Scott's climate change denial after Hurricane Michael pummels Florida As Hurricane Michael pummeled the Gulf coast, a less deadly but equally ferocious media storm formed around Florida Governor Rick Scott, whose alleged climate change denial has been blamed for putting Floridians in harm's way. Viral videos, New York Times op-eds, and Guardian contributors all highlighted Rick Scott's "backward stance" on climate change after Michael, a powerful typhoon, made landfall along the Florida Panhandle. According to these media reports and commentaries, Scott's "science denial" has endangered Florida residents. In other words, if Scott were more vocal about man-made climate change, Florida would have been better prepared for – or perhaps could have even prevented – the devastating hurricane." Florida is the state most endangered by climate change," declares a video published by Now This. "But Gov. Scott's strategy for dealing with it is denial." The New York Times' Nicholas Kristof also took Scott to task for his stance on climate change, writing that "alas, denying climate change doesn't actually prevent it." He added: "Some folks will say this isn't the moment for politics. But don't we have a responsibility to mitigate the next disaster?"It's true that Scott, who is currently running for the Senate, has shown little interest in highlighting or combating the alleged dangers of climate change. In 2015, after the governor took office, the Florida Department of Environment was reportedly banned from using the terms "climate change" and "global warming." Two years later, Scott signed a bill that critics dubbed the "anti-science law," which allows residents to file complaints about instructional materials used in public schools. Scott has a section on his website dedicated to environmental issues – but it is curiously absent of any direct mentions of climate change. However, his website does note that Scott "fought to protect Florida's coastline by getting Florida removed from consideration for offshore oil drilling and securing millions of dollars in state funding to help local governments with coastal resilience projects and sea level rise planning." On the campaign trail, Scott has dodged questions about climate change, resorting to responses such as "I'm not a scientist" to avoid weighing in on the subject. The motive behind Scott's alleged "science denial" has also received media attention. Last year, the Tampa Bay Times alleged that Scott's personal business ties to the energy industry may be the reason for the state's legislative inaction on climate change. The paper claimed that Scott had hefty investments in petroleum companies that oppose restrictions on greenhouse gases and other environmental regulations. READ MORE: Hurricane Michael shuts in 40% off Gulf of Mexico oil productionThe Florida governor hasn't been the only one singled out by the media for his "backward" views, however. According to The Guardian, anyone who isn't a fervent believer in man-made climate change is to blame for Hurricane Michael – even the hurricane's victims." Victims of Hurricane Michael voted for climate deniers,"reads the headline an op-ed published in The Guardian on Thursday. "Elections have consequences. Denying science has consequences. And we are reaping what we sow," the subhead states matter-of-factly. The headline was later amended to "Victims of Hurricane Michael are represented by climate deniers." Climate deniers are making these storms worse by stopping action on climate change. What the hell do we expect to happen when the deniers are writing the laws?" the commentary, penned by John Abraham, a professor of thermal sciences, asks rhetorically. Social media users appeared to largely line up behind the allegations hurled at Scott – although some seemed unconvinced that the governor was at fault." Rick Scott can ban the term all he wants in FLORIDA. Climate change is real," one Twitter user wrote." He's bought and paid for," claimed another. Others were less accusatory." It's not our words that are negatively affecting the atmosphere. It's the damage we are doing to the planet," one Twitter user noted in response to the Now This video." Lol. Like the weather would give a crap if he went mute," a netizen observed. At least six people have been killed as a result of Hurricane Michael, the third most powerful storm ever to hit the US mainland, according to officials. The hurricane made landfall as a Category-4 storm, but later weakened to a Category 1 on Wednesday night. As Hurricane Michael gradually loses strength, however, it appears that the media storm over the consequences of climate change denial is only growing. Will the devastation wrought by Michael and all future hurricanes be laid at the feet of "science deniers"?Like this story? Share it with a friend!	True
495	npr	left_center_bias	2018-11-26	"It is affecting all of us no matter where we live.	Global Change Research Program.	It's well over 1,000 pages and touches on a daunting range of topics.	Here are some key points.	Again, the rise of extreme events like wildfires, floods and storm surges poses the most immediate danger to public health and well-being.		New U.S. Climate Assessment Forecasts Dire Effects On Economy, Health New U.S. Climate Assessment Forecasts Dire Effects On Economy, HealthThe Trump administration released a major climate assessment on Black Friday, the culmination of years of research by the country's top climate scientists. It's well over 1,000 pages and touches on a daunting range of topics. President Trump said Monday that he has read parts of it. "It's fine," he told reporters at the White House, although he said he doesn't believe the report's assessment that climate change will cause devastating economic impacts for the U.S. The report is required by Congress every four years and is issued by 13 federal agencies and the U.S. Global Change Research Program. This one marks the most detailed and blunt assessment yet of the dangers of unchecked global warming." Climate change is happening here and now," co-author Katherine Hayhoe of Texas Tech University told Weekend Edition Saturday. "It is affecting all of us no matter where we live. And the more climate changes, the more serious and even more dangerous the impacts will become." Here are some key points. Some parts of the U.S. economy could suffer hundreds of billions of dollars in annual losses by the end of the century unless global greenhouse gas emissions are substantially reduced, the report finds. Already, there's the impact of increasingly frequent and intense extreme weather events. The report notes that large wildfires are more frequent and that the areas burned by lightning-ignited fires are "expected to increase by at least 30 percent by 2060." The costs for fighting fires and forest management are on the rise (see chart). But there are other, less obvious risks. Don't see the graphic above? Click hereIncreasing rain and humidity could cause agricultural productivity to fall in the Midwest, and warming oceans will hurt fisheries. Along the coasts, more severe flooding threatens billions of dollars' worth of property and infrastructure, which in turn "could affect the economic stability of local governments, businesses, and the broader economy." Extreme weather events could also cause price spikes and interrupt international trade. As an example, the report notes that flooding in Thailand in 2011 disrupted production of Ford and Honda vehicles in the U.S. and cost a U.S.-based hard drive manufacturer $199 million in losses. Again, the rise of extreme events like wildfires, floods and storm surges poses the most immediate danger to public health and well-being. The report finds that with continued warming, heat-related deaths will increase. The warming climate and more frequent and intense rain might also expand the range of ticks and mosquitoes, exposing more people to diseases like West Nile, dengue fever, chikungunya and Lyme. Climate change could also worsen harmful ozone levels and air pollution. That could send more people to the hospital for aggravated asthma and respiratory or cardiovascular problems and could even increase premature deaths. As with so many climate impacts, the report notes that those most at risk include children, the elderly and low-income communities.U.S. infrastructure was not built for these changesMuch of America's infrastructure is already aging and deteriorating, and it is taking a pounding from extreme weather. In some places, more intense rain and saltwater intrusion have led to dam failures, bridge and road closures and power outages. Heavier downpours can also overwhelm sewer systems, causing untreated water to flow into rivers. In the West, prolonged drought has forced utilities to cut back on electricity production from hydropower. Extreme heat (and higher demand) can also raise the risk of power outages. The report notes that power outages can affect drinking water treatment, among many other services people take for granted. Intense rain, flooding and heat can also hurt the nation's vast network of transportation, shutting down major highways and coastal airports and halting freight movement. The report, like most climate studies, offers different scenarios for how fast the climate will change and by how much. The bigger the change, the greater the consequences for everything from heat waves to hurricanes. The White House issued a statement criticizing the report as largely based on the "most extreme scenario" for emissions of greenhouse gases. The report is in fact based mostly on two scenarios: One is the most severe view, in which little or no effort is made to lower emissions. However, it also uses a more moderate scenario, one that sees more aggressive actions to reduce emissions than are currently underway — less fossil fuel use, for example, or more efficient vehicles and buildings. And for some of its chapters, the report considers a third, far rosier future where emissions are drastically reduced and even where greenhouse gases are pulled back out of the atmosphere. Effects on people and the economy are considerably less dire under these scenarios than in the most severe one. Some communities are already adaptingThe good news in this dire report is that scores of local and state governments are taking action to lower their own carbon emissions and cope with climate impacts. Some of those impacts will get worse still, no matter what, as they are "locked in due to historical emissions." But the report makes clear that changes today can make a big difference." It's absolutely not too late to take action," says Brenda Ekwurzel, a co-author and senior climate scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists. The report states that more than half the projected damages of coastal property "are estimated to be avoidable through well-timed adaptation measures." But Ekwurzel cautions that we can't merely adapt our way out of this mess." The cost of adaptation could be quite high, and it may never be enough," she says. "But costs will really start skyrocketing if we don't start reining in emissions."	False
757	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-06-02	But he added: "Measuring with precision, from my perspective, the degree of human contribution is very challenging."	"That's where our focus has been the last several weeks."	For his own part, Pruitt acknowledged that global warming is occurring, and that "human activity contributes to it in some manner".	We will reach out and reciprocate with nations that seek to achieve that."	ell, that's up to them, right?"		US has nothing to apologize for on climate change, says defiant EPA chief The head of the Environmental Protection Agency has said America has nothing to apologise for on climate change and retains a seat at the negotiating table, claiming: "After all, we're the United States." Scott Pruitt joined other officials in declining to say whether Donald Trump believes human activity contributes to climate change, a day after the president pulled America out of the landmark Paris agreement. Pruitt claimed Trump wants better terms within the Paris framework or an entirely new deal, and dismissed warnings from world leaders that it is not negotiable." ell, that's up to them, right?" the EPA administrator told reporters. "The United States has a seat at the table. After all, we're the United States and we are leading with respect to CO2 reduction. We have made tremendous progress." f nations around the globe want to seek to learn from us on what we're doing to reduce our CO2 footprint, we're going to share that with them, and that's something that should occur and will occur in the future. We will reach out and reciprocate with nations that seek to achieve that." Trump announced on Thursday that the US, the world's second biggest greenhouse gas emitter, would immediately stop implementing the 195-nation agreement brokered by Barack Obama in 2015. There was a global backlash, and the EU said on Friday it will increase cooperation with China to combat climate change. Pruitt denied that America has abandoned the victims of climate change around the world, arguing that it has done "a tremendous amount" to reduce carbon output to 1990s levels and will stay engaged and continue to export relevant technology." his is not a message to anyone in the world that America should be apologetic of its CO2 position. We're actually making tremendous advances. We're just not going to agree to frameworks and agreements that put us at an economic disadvantage and hurt citizens across this country." He echoed Trump's attack on members of the agreement as having economic rather than environmental motives. "The world applauded when we joined Paris, and you know why? I think they applauded because they knew it was going to put this country at an economic disadvantage, and the reason European leaders want us to stay in is because they know it will continue to shackle our economy, though we are leading the world with respect to our CO2 reduction." The EPA administrator was asked repeatedly whether Trump believes climate change is a hoax, as Trump previously claimed, but refused to give a straight answer. "There's enough to deal with with respect to the Paris agreement and making an informed decision about this important issue," he said. "That's where our focus has been the last several weeks." For his own part, Pruitt acknowledged that global warming is occurring, and that "human activity contributes to it in some manner". But he added: "Measuring with precision, from my perspective, the degree of human contribution is very challenging." Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, was similarly evasive on the topic. Asked if he can talk to Trump about the cause of climate change and report back at the next press briefing, he replied: "If I can, I will." Spicer gave short shrift to suggestions that Trump's decision will lift China as a global leader. "I think part of the reason the president said it was a bad deal yesterday was because countries including China were not making substantial progress in reducing their carbon footprint." hey weren't doing enough and America was carrying the load, so I think by negotiating a better deal, hopefully we can get a better result for our country and the world." Nicaragua and Syria are the only countries not party to the Paris accord; the former says it is not ambitious enough. Under a long exit process, America's withdrawal will not be become formal until November 2020.	False
291	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-11-12	t's the only thing that people ever ask about," Bruce Nilles, who directs the building electrification program of the Rocky Mountain Institute, a Colorado-based think tank that focuses on energy and resource efficiency, said in the USA Today report.	"This is a must-do for the climate and a livable planet."	Environmentalists in California Take Aim at Kitchens to Save the Planet Environmentalists in California are willing to let the state dictate how they cook in their own kitchens in an attempt to save the planet.	USA Today also pointed out that California is not the only place where people want more government regulation.	Carbon dioxide is the primary greenhouse gas causing climate change."		Environmentalists in California Take Aim at Kitchens to Save the Planet Environmentalists in California are willing to let the state dictate how they cook in their own kitchens in an attempt to save the planet. Thirteen cities and one county in California have put in place zoning codes encouraging or requiring all-electric new construction, virtually banning builders from running natural gas lines into homes and apartments to fuel appliances, including stoves and ovens. USA Today reported that people believe the move is necessary to fight climate change "with an eye toward creating fewer legacy gas hookups as the nation shifts to carbon-neutral energy sources." For natural gas companies, it's a threat to their existence. And for some cooks who love to prepare food with flame, it's an unthinkable loss. Natural gas is a fossil fuel, mostly methane, and produces 33% of U.S. carbon dioxide emissions from electricity generation, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Carbon dioxide is the primary greenhouse gas causing climate change." here's no pathway to stabilizing the climate without phasing gas out of our homes and buildings," Rachel Golden of the Sierra Club's building electrification campaign, said. "This is a must-do for the climate and a livable planet." But the page linked to on the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) website is referring, ironically, to CO2 emissions from the U.S. electric power sector by source for 2018. The new codes call for replacing gas with electricity. The federal website reports on the benefits of using natural gas as an energy source:Burning natural gas for energy results in fewer emissions of nearly all types of air pollutants and carbon dioxide (CO2) than burning coal or petroleum products to produce an equal amount of energy. About 117 pounds of carbon dioxide are produced per million British thermal units (MMBtu) equivalent of natural gas compared with more than 200 pounds of CO2 per MMBtu of coal and more than 160 pounds per MMBtu of distillate fuel oil. The clean burning properties of natural gas have contributed to increased natural gas use for electricity generation and as a transportation fuel for fleet vehicles in the United States." robably the biggest stumbling block for most pondering an all-electric home is the prospect of not having a gas stove," USA Today reported." t's the only thing that people ever ask about," Bruce Nilles, who directs the building electrification program of the Rocky Mountain Institute, a Colorado-based think tank that focuses on energy and resource efficiency, said in the USA Today report. According to a 2017 kitchen study by the NPD Group, 35 percent of U.S. households have a gas stove, while 55 percent have electric." ut the number of natural gas customers is also rising," USA Today reported. "The American Gas Association, which represents more than 200 local energy companies, says an average of one new customer is added every minute." That's exactly the wrong direction," Nilles said." he idea that denying access to natural gas in new homes is necessary to meet emissions reduction goals is false," American Gas Association President and CEO Karen Harbert. "In fact, denying access to natural gas could make meeting emissions goals harder and more expensive." They also say it's more expensive to run an all-electric home," USA Today reported. "A study by AGA released last year suggested that all-electric homes would pay $750 to $910 a year more for energy-related costs, as well as amortized appliance and upgrade costs." USA Today also pointed out that California is not the only place where people want more government regulation. New York, Hawaii, Colorado, and Maine have carbon-neutrality goals, and as many as 140 U.S. cities have similar plans.	False
408	politicususa	left_bias	2018-10-08	The report is seen as the main scientific guide for government policymakers on how to implement the 2015 Paris Agreement.	Meeting the 1.5C limit required "rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented" change in land and energy use, industry, buildings, transport and cities, it said, adding temperatures would be 1.5C higher between 2030 and 2052 at the current pace.	The Paris pact aims to limit global average temperature rise to "well below" 2C above pre-industrial levels, while seeking to tighten the goal to 1.5C.	The U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) met last week in Incheon, South Korea to finalize the report, prepared at the request of governments in 2015 when a global pact to tackle climate change was agreed.	Temperatures to rise 1.5 degrees Celsius by 2030-2052 without rapid steps: U.N. report LONDON/SEOUL (Reuters) – Temperatures are likely to rise by 1.5 degrees Celsius between 2030 and 2052 if global warming continues at its current pace and if the world fails to take rapid and unprecedented measures to stem the increase, a U.N. report said on Monday.		Temperatures to rise 1.5 degrees Celsius by 2030-2052 without rapid steps: U.N. report LONDON/SEOUL (Reuters) – Temperatures are likely to rise by 1.5 degrees Celsius between 2030 and 2052 if global warming continues at its current pace and if the world fails to take rapid and unprecedented measures to stem the increase, a U.N. report said on Monday. The U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) met last week in Incheon, South Korea to finalize the report, prepared at the request of governments in 2015 when a global pact to tackle climate change was agreed. The report is seen as the main scientific guide for government policymakers on how to implement the 2015 Paris Agreement. The Paris pact aims to limit global average temperature rise to "well below" 2C above pre-industrial levels, while seeking to tighten the goal to 1.5C. There has already been a rise of 1C since the mid-1800s as industrialization lifted emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2), the main greenhouse gas blamed for climate change.A rise of 1.5C would still carry climate-related risks for nature and mankind but the risks would be lower than a rise of 2C, the report summary said. Meeting the 1.5C limit required "rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented" change in land and energy use, industry, buildings, transport and cities, it said, adding temperatures would be 1.5C higher between 2030 and 2052 at the current pace. The targets agreed in Paris on cutting emissions would not be enough even if there were larger and more ambitious cuts after 2030, it said. To contain warming at 1.5C, manmade global net carbon dioxide emissions would need to fall by about 45 percent by 2030 from 2010 levels and reach "net zero" by mid-century. Any additional emissions would require removing CO2 from the air." imiting warming to 1.5C is possible within the laws of chemistry and physics but doing so would require unprecedented changes," said Jim Skea, co-chair of the IPCC working group which assesses climate change mitigation. The summary said renewable energy would need to supply 70 to 85 percent of electricity by 2050 to stay within a 1.5C limit, compared with about 25 percent now. Using carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology, the share of gas-fired power would need to be cut to 8 percent and coal to between 0 and 2 percent. There was no mention of oil in this context in the summary. If the average global temperature temporarily exceeded 1.5C, additional carbon removal techniques would be required to return warming to below 1.5C by 2100. But the report said the efficacy of measures, such as planting forests, bioenergy use or capturing and storing CO2, were unproven at a large scale and carried some risks. Steps like reflecting incoming solar radiation back into space were not assessed because of the uncertainties about using such technology, the report said. It said keeping the rise in temperature to 1.5C would mean sea levels by 2100 would be 10 cm lower than if the warming was 2C, the likelihood of an Arctic Ocean free of sea ice in summer would be once per century not at least once a decade, and coral reefs would decline by 70-90 percent instead of being virtually wiped out." he report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it," said Amjad Abdulla, the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	False
800	BBC	left_center_bias	2017-06-01	The speech contained several rhetorical flourishes reminiscent of his campaign speeches."	Climate change is real.	Climate change, or global warming, refers to the damaging effect of gases, or emissions, released from industry and agriculture on the atmosphere.	The overall tone and content of his speech clearly plays to his base but is also a clear disavowal of multilateralism, especially on climate change, and will definitely push other countries more closely together on this issue.	"I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris.		Paris climate deal: Trump pulls US out of 2015 accord President Donald Trump has announced that the US is withdrawing from the 2015 Paris climate agreement. He said moves to negotiate a new "fair" deal that would not disadvantage US businesses and workers would begin. Mr Trump said during last year's presidential election campaign that he would take the step to help his country's oil and coal industries. Opponents say withdrawing from the accord is an abdication of US leadership on a key global challenge. The Paris agreement commits the US and 187 other countries to keeping rising global temperatures "well below" 2C above pre-industrial levels and "endeavour to limit" them even more, to 1.5C. Only Syria and Nicaragua did not sign up to the deal. Speaking in the White House Rose Garden, Mr Trump characterised the Paris agreement as a deal that aimed to hobble, disadvantage and impoverish the US. He claimed the agreement would cost the US $3tn in lost GDP and 6.5 million jobs - while rival economies like China and India were treated more favourably." In order to fulfil my solemn duty to protect America and its citizens, the United States will withdraw from the Paris climate accord... but begin negotiations to re-enter either the Paris accord or a really entirely new transaction on terms that are fair to the United States," he said. The speech contained several rhetorical flourishes reminiscent of his campaign speeches." We don't want other leaders and other countries laughing at us any more - and they won't be," he said."I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris. I promised I would exit or re-negotiate any deal which fails to serve America's interests. Many trade deals will soon be under re-negotiation." The BBC's Rajini Vaidyanathan in Washington says the move will be welcomed by many Trump supporters, as for them this is less about science - and more about sending a signal to so-called global elites. Analysts say the US withdrawal from the Paris agreement will make it more difficult for the world to reach the goals that it set for itself in the Paris agreement. The US contributes about 15% of global emissions of carbon, but it is also a significant source of finance and technology for developing countries in their efforts to fight rising temperatures. Mr Trump did not give a timescale for US withdrawal, but White House sources had earlier suggested it could take up to four years. Former US President Barack Obama, who agreed to the Paris deal, immediately criticised the move, accusing the Trump administration of "rejecting the future". Republican congressional leaders and the US coal industry backed the move, with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell supporting Mr Trump "for dealing yet another significant blow to the Obama administration's assault on domestic energy production and jobs". Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer called the decision "one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st Century because of the huge damage to our economy, our environment and our geopolitical standing". The leaders of France, Germany and Italy issued a joint statement rejecting a renegotiation of the agreement." We deem the momentum generated in Paris in December 2015 irreversible and we firmly believe that the Paris agreement cannot be renegotiated, since it is a vital instrument for our planet, societies and economies," it said. This was echoed by UK Prime Minister Theresa May, who expressed her disappointment and told Mr Trump in a phone call that the deal protects the "prosperity and security of future generations". Leaders of the Nordic nations - Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Norway, and Iceland - also condemned the move.A United Nations spokeswoman said it was a "major disappointment for global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote global security". Small island nations whose existence is threatened by rising sea levels were critical of the move. The President of the Marshall Islands, Hilda Heine, said it was "highly concerning for those of us that live on the frontline of climate change". Tech entrepreneur Elon Musk confirmed that he was leaving his role as an adviser to the Trump administration in protest." Am departing presidential councils. Climate change is real. Leaving Paris is not good for America or the world," he tweeted. President Trump's statement is a very clear repudiation of the Paris agreement and international efforts to fund climate mitigation and adaptation in poorer countries. In many ways it is far worse than many had expected. He sees it as a clear job killer, as an economy strangler and a desperately unfair stitch-up by other countries wanting to take economic advantage of the US. He spoke of being open to re-negotiating the deal or trying to build a new agreement - but the idea of "re-negotiation" is an unlikely scenario. The scale of his opposition, seeing the deal as "a massive redistribution of US wealth to other countries" is a clear indication that he has fully bought into an economic nationalist and climate denier perspective. The question of unfairness cropped up again and again, how the world's worst polluters, China and India, had "no meaningful obligations" placed on them by the deal. The overall tone and content of his speech clearly plays to his base but is also a clear disavowal of multilateralism, especially on climate change, and will definitely push other countries more closely together on this issue. Climate change, or global warming, refers to the damaging effect of gases, or emissions, released from industry and agriculture on the atmosphere. The Paris accord is meant to limit the global rise in temperature attributed to emissions.	False
704	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-10-31	"When it comes to advice the agency receives, the core concern over the need to avoid conflicts of interest is this: Is advice tainted because the entity employing and paying the advisor stands to gain or lose financially from the agency decision that is under advisement?	As it relates to grants from this agency, you're going to have to choose," said Pruitt, who described the new rule as a way of ensuring "there's integrity in the process and that the scientists that are advising us are doing so without any kind of appearance of conflict."	Honeycutt once suggested the health risks linked to smog were overstated, described ozone standards as "alarmism" that made "no biological sense" because "most people are indoors for 90 percent of the time," and blasted the EPA for relying on epidemiological studies that he considered "not scientifically rigorous."	"For Pruitt, anything that helps corporate polluters make money is good and science and facts are just roadblocks he wants to tear down."	Honeycutt relied heavily on research produced by Michael Dourson, whose consultancy, Toxicology Excellence for Risk Assessment, was described in 2014 by InsideClimate News as the "one-stop science shop" favored by the chemical and tobacco industries.		Scott Pruitt Just Cleared The Way For Industry Control Of EPA's Science Advisory Boards At a Tuesday afternoon event rolling out the new policy, Administrator Scott Pruitt invoked a biblical tale from the book of Joshua, in which the pagans are instructed to "choose this day whom you will serve," either God or the "gods of your fathers." As it relates to grants from this agency, you're going to have to choose," said Pruitt, who described the new rule as a way of ensuring "there's integrity in the process and that the scientists that are advising us are doing so without any kind of appearance of conflict." Pruitt described scientists who received as much as $77 million in grants from the agency while also serving on advisory boards as damaging the perception of independent rule-making. Pruitt signed an order cementing the new rules into policy during the 28-minute event, with Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) and Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Texas), two of the most ardent climate change deniers in Congress, at his side." dministrator Pruitt is purging expert scientists from his science boards ― and replacing them with mouthpieces for big polluters," Sen. Tom Udall (D-N.M.) said in a statement. "Now, instead of independent science guiding the way, hired guns for industry will be steering EPA policy on central issues affecting clean air, clean water, and public health." Pruitt said nothing of industry-funded science, which has long been used to kneecap regulations. For many scientists working in a time of limited research budgets, funding from the EPA or other government agencies is one of the few sources available, other than industry money." holly unaddressed by the directive is any counterpart prohibition on scientists funded by industries with conflicts of interest from serving as EPA advisors," Richard Denison, a lead senior scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund, wrote in a blog post. "When it comes to advice the agency receives, the core concern over the need to avoid conflicts of interest is this: Is advice tainted because the entity employing and paying the advisor stands to gain or lose financially from the agency decision that is under advisement?"The advisory boards, which Congress created as a check on EPA policies and regulations, include the EPA Science Advisory Board, the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee (CASAC) and the Board of Scientific Counselors. Pruitt said he plans to announce new members of the boards next week, after scientists began quitting the councils in protest earlier this year. While Pruitt's new order rejects anyone who receives funding from the agency, he has named industry allies to those same boards. As part of the announcement, he tapped Michael Honeycutt, the head of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality's toxicology division, to serve as the head of the Science Advisory Board. Honeycutt once suggested the health risks linked to smog were overstated, described ozone standards as "alarmism" that made "no biological sense" because "most people are indoors for 90 percent of the time," and blasted the EPA for relying on epidemiological studies that he considered "not scientifically rigorous." In 2010, the Texas Observer called him a "crony" of then-Gov. Rick Perry (R) and accused him of "abusing science." Honeycutt relied heavily on research produced by Michael Dourson, whose consultancy, Toxicology Excellence for Risk Assessment, was described in 2014 by InsideClimate News as the "one-stop science shop" favored by the chemical and tobacco industries. (Pruitt picked Dourson to lead the agency's chemical safety division last month.)Pruitt also tapped Tony Cox, who runs the private consultancy Cox Associates and produces research for major industry groups, to lead the CASAC. He has done research on lung disease issues for the American Chemistry Council, a trade group for the chemical industry, and research on health effects associated with fine particulate matter and ozone for the American Petroleum Institute, the oil industry's main lobbying group, according to The Intercept. In 2015, he railed against the EPA's plans to tighten rules on ozone emissions. Pruitt appointed Paul Gilman as the head of the Board of Scientific Counselors. Gilman currently serves as the chief sustainability officer at the waste management and incinerator company Covanta. He has been a leading advocate for incinerating trash as a source of fuel for electricity. The trash incinerator industry provides only a tiny fraction of U.S. power, but wields outsize influence in some cities and has attempted to sabotage the U.S. Conference of Mayors' effort to push for 100 percent renewable energy." cott Pruitt doesn't want to listen to a word from anyone who isn't in the pocket of corporate polluters," Sierra Club Executive Director Michael Brune said in a statement. "For Pruitt, anything that helps corporate polluters make money is good and science and facts are just roadblocks he wants to tear down."	False
646	National Review	right_bias	2017-04-12	Mandating conservation, however, is drastically different from incentivizing it.	Brown has indicated that he hopes to expand the state's water supply with new sources of water, but his focus on making conservation "a way of life" — in a time when California's streets are flooding — suggests otherwise.	It also creates more stringent standards for establishing these water-use goals.	Certainly, Californians — and everyone else — ought to find ways to responsibly use natural resources such as water.	Brown's latest plan, "Making Water Conservation a California Way of Life," allows the state to oversee conservation goals it sets in urban water-management agencies, as well as to permanently prohibit activities it deems wasteful of the water supply.		Conservation Isn't the Solution to California's Water Problems In January, California's Jerry Brown became the first governor in the state's history to declare a state of emergency for a drought and a flood simultaneously. On Friday, Brown lifted the drought emergency in all but four counties (Fresno, Kings, Tulare, and Tuolumne counties). But, rather than lift the burdensome water regulations implemented to cope with the drought, he announced that many of those regulations would remain intact, even though the flood emergency remains. Brown's latest plan, "Making Water Conservation a California Way of Life," allows the state to oversee conservation goals it sets in urban water-management agencies, as well as to permanently prohibit activities it deems wasteful of the water supply. It also creates more stringent standards for establishing these water-use goals. Brown has indicated that he hopes to expand the state's water supply with new sources of water, but his focus on making conservation "a way of life" — in a time when California's streets are flooding — suggests otherwise. Certainly, Californians — and everyone else — ought to find ways to responsibly use natural resources such as water. Mandating conservation, however, is drastically different from incentivizing it. Even though there is no longer a drought state of emergency in their state, Californians will be fined if they wash their automobiles with hoses "not equipped with a shut-off nozzle," water lawns in a way that results in water run-off, or hose off sidewalks. The plan also gives urban government agencies until 2025 to comply with their conservation targets, limiting the water usage of Californians. But water conservation can only go so far. California ought to begin expanding its water supply rather than incessantly regulate how citizens use water, especially now that the governor doesn't retain the broad powers spelled out under the drought state of emergency (Brown's flood state of emergency doesn't give him the same power to regulate water use). John Woodling of the Sacramento Regional Water Authority told the Sacramento Bee that Brown's assertion of state power in this area will give it "permanent, unchecked control over local water management decisions." And, as Brown's plan begins to drive water consumption down, Woodling said, it could hurt the economy. Governor Brown has pushed two contradictory agendas for months. Now, even he has concluded that California is no longer in a drought. It's time for these conservation regulations to be lifted and for the state to do what it should have done a long time ago: look to expand its water supply.	False
801	The New York Times	left_center_bias	2017-04-18	While no decision has been made, experts tracking it say that view is gaining traction."	That view is also backed by economists at the Heritage Foundation, the conservative think tank that has supplied the Trump administration with many of its policy proposals.	hey could just submit a new plan," he said.	Koch."	"People internationally would not be happy, but they'd be a lot less unhappy than if the U.S. actually pulled out."		Trump Policy Advisers, Split Over Paris Accord, Will Debate U.S. Role in Pact Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, the former chief executive of Exxon Mobil, has also spoken in favor of "keeping a seat at the table" in the climate pact, and in recent days, major corporations have stepped forward to embrace that position. While no decision has been made, experts tracking it say that view is gaining traction." e do not currently believe the Trump administration plans to withdraw from either Paris agreement," wrote Kevin Book, an analyst at ClearView Energy Partners, a Washington firm, in a memo to clients on Monday. While Mr. Trump does not have the power to undo a multilateral United Nations accord, he could withdraw the world's largest economy from the pact, weakening it substantially. Such a move would win cheers from the nation's most powerful conservative political advocates, and give Mr. Trump bragging rights in coal country. But withdrawing from the landmark accord that committed nearly every nation to take action against planet-warming emissions could create diplomatic blowback, while weakening American leadership in arenas far afield from energy and the environment. Besides, keeping the United States' name on the accord does not obligate the Trump administration to abide by the ambitious emissions-control pledges of Mr. Trump's predecessor, Barack Obama. At least one senior White House climate policy adviser, George David Banks, has advocated staying in the agreement while replacing the Obama plan with a weaker, more industry-friendly pledge. Over recent weeks, Mr. Banks has asked top officials at several major corporations, including Exxon Mobil, who have similar views, to submit letters to the White House confirming their support of staying in the Paris deal, even if in a modified form. In response, Peter Trelenberg, the manager of environmental policy and planning at Exxon Mobil, wrote to Mr. Banks, "Exxon Mobil supports the Paris agreement as an effective framework for addressing the risks of climate change." Royal Dutch Shell and BP, European companies with significant investments in the United States, have also endorsed the accord. Last month, Representative Kevin Cramer, a Republican from oil-, gas- and coal-rich North Dakota, wrote, "The U.S. should present a new pledge that does no harm to our economy." Mr. Cramer, an early supporter of Donald J. Trump, advised Mr. Trump on energy issues during his presidential campaign. Colin Marshall, the chief executive of Cloud Peak, a major coal producer in Wyoming, the nation's largest coal-mining state, also wrote to Mr. Trump: "By remaining in the Paris agreement, albeit with a much different pledge on emissions, you can help shape a more rational international approach to climate policy." Regardless of his decision, Mr. Trump has already undermined the United States' ability to meet its Paris pledge. Mr. Obama declared that the United States would reduce its planet-warming carbon pollution about 26 percent from 2005 levels by 2025. Its primary policy for meeting that target would be the Clean Power Plan, a set of Environmental Protection Agency regulations designed to shutter hundreds of heavily polluting coal-fired power plants, the nation's chief source of greenhouse emissions. Last month, Mr. Trump directed Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, to begin the legal process of dismantling the Clean Power Plan. Whether or not the United States remains in the Paris pact, it almost certainly will not be able to meet its pledged pollution-reduction targets. Mr. Pruitt has emerged as a leading voice for withdrawal from the Paris deal. Last week, he told Fox News, "It's something we need to exit." That reflects the views of powerful conservative political advocacy groups such as Americans for Prosperity, which is funded by the influential libertarian brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch." hat we say to the White House is that it's clearly a terrible agreement for the American people," said Tim Phillips, the president of Americans for Prosperity. That view is also backed by economists at the Heritage Foundation, the conservative think tank that has supplied the Trump administration with many of its policy proposals. Harold G. Hamm, the chief executive of Continental Resources and a Trump campaign adviser, has also condemned the pact. "Cancel the Paris climate treaty and any other agreements entered into unilaterally and without the consent of Congress," Mr. Hamm wrote in a letter to Mr. Trump before his inauguration. Bob Murray, the chief executive of the coal company Murray Energy, who is personally close with the president, has also strongly criticized the deal. Mr. Book, the analyst, noted that the risks of withdrawing from the Paris deal include not only diplomatic ill will, but also the possibility of trade reprisals. Countries that tax emissions of carbon dioxide pollution could place a carbon tariff on imports of American-made goods. The European Union currently charges polluters fees for carbon emissions, while China, Mexico and Canada are in the process of carrying out such programs." f the U.S. were to pull out, it would do so in the context that would invite trade reprisals," Mr. Book said. "It could lead to a carbon tariff trade war." Daniel M. Bodansky, an expert in international environmental agreements at Arizona State University, said that remaining in the Paris deal but weakening the United States' commitment could still have the effect of generating some ill will — but without the repercussions of trade sanctions." hey could just submit a new plan," he said. "People internationally would not be happy, but they'd be a lot less unhappy than if the U.S. actually pulled out."	False
537	npr	left_center_bias	2018-10-08	We have a monumental task in front of us," says co-author Natalie Mahowald, from Cornell University, "but it is not impossible."	This is our chance to decide what that road will look like."	Herzog calls most of these extraction ideas "more of a hope than a reality."	In 50 years, she says, "it's going to be very different.	It's expensive, however.		Climate Report Warns Of Extreme Weather, Displacement Of Millions Without Action Climate Report Warns Of Extreme Weather, Displacement Of Millions Without ActionSome of the world's top climate scientists have concluded that global warming is likely to reach dangerous levels unless new technologies are developed to remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. The United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) says pledges from the world's governments to reduce greenhouse gases, made in Paris in 2015, aren't enough to keep global warming from rising more than 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees F) above pre-industrial temperatures. That was the Paris agreement's most ambitious target (a 2-degree C rise was established as a more practical goal). But even with a 1.5-degree C increase, the world can expect serious changes to weather, sea levels, agriculture and natural eco-systems, according to a report issued Monday following an IPCC meeting in South Korea." Limiting warming to 1.5 C is possible within the laws of chemistry and physics," says Jim Skea of Imperial College London, one of the authors of the report, "but doing so would require unprecedented changes." Scientists and climate researchers have long doubted that the 1.5-degree C goal was practical or economically feasible. Their new report lays out the difficulty in stark detail: it would require a 40-50 percent reduction in emissions by 2030 (global emissions are currently rising). It would mean a carbon-neutral world — one with no net additional greenhouse gases in the atmosphere — by 2050. They now say that scenario is very unlikely without new measures and technologies to remove greenhouse gases from the air, some of which have yet to be invented." We have a monumental task in front of us," says co-author Natalie Mahowald, from Cornell University, "but it is not impossible." In 50 years, she says, "it's going to be very different. This is our chance to decide what that road will look like." The IPCC report holds out hope that if the global climate warms more than the 1.5-degree, or even the 2-degree target, this "overshoot" could be reversed with carbon removal techniques. It suggests numerous ways to take carbon dioxide (CO2), the leading greenhouse gas, out of the atmosphere. Growing more forests, which absorb CO2, is one tactic. But research shows that the amount of land needed for that would be formidable. Another possibility involves burning biomass to make electricity instead of using fossil fuels. Currently, about 1 percent of electricity in the U.S. is made that way, using things like waste wood and agricultural material. It's expensive, however. Crops like corn are now turned into ethanol, but that raises food prices. To be economical, the biomass would have to be agricultural waste or special crops like switchgrass that don't compete with food crops. There are experimental methods now that can take CO2 directly out of the air, after which it could be buried. But billions of tons of CO2 would have to come out, and these techniques now cost as much as $1,000 to extract a single ton of CO2, according to Howard Herzog, an engineer at MIT who specializes in these "carbon capture" technologies. CO2 is a tiny percentage of the air; Herzog likens the technique to removing 400 "CO2 marbles" from a pile of one million marbles." The best way to remove CO2 from the air," he says in his book Carbon Capture, is "to not release it into the air in the first place." Herzog calls most of these extraction ideas "more of a hope than a reality." He says it comes down to cost, and "it's a lot cheaper to take it out now (by reducing emissions) than in the future." But most governments now fear the cost of a global overhaul of the world's energy economy in the short time needed to meet the Paris climate goals. As the report concludes: "There is no simple answer to the questions of whether it is feasible to limit warming to 1.5 C and to adapt to the consequences...." However, it does make clear the consequences of warming above that level: more heat waves, more severe rain and snow events, higher sea levels, damage to agriculture and displacement of millions of people.	False
110	cnn	left_bias	2019-02-28	The resolution proposes, "providing all people of the United States with — (i) high-quality health care; (ii) affordable, safe, and adequate housing; (iii) economic security; and (iv) access to clean water, clean air, healthy and affordable food, and nature."	Workers are often paid far less than the value they create."	It calls for the creation of millions of new high-wage jobs to help wipe out poverty.	It would phase out fossil fuel use, and calls for the elimination of greenhouse gas emissions and pollution in agriculture, transportation, manufacturing and construction.	In response, Ivanka Trump said, "I don't think most Americans in their heart want to be given something," adding, "People want to work for what they get, so I think this idea of a guaranteed minimum is not something most people want."		Trump's top economic adviser: 'The Green New Deal will literally destroy the economy' Speaking at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference, National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow slammed the progressive proposal that was recently introduced by Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts. Kudlow said the deal "will knock out energy, transportation, airlines, jobs, businesses. We'll probably lose 10 to 15% of our GDP. It's remarkable." The package of legislation is aimed at, among other things, addressing climate change. It would phase out fossil fuel use, and calls for the elimination of greenhouse gas emissions and pollution in agriculture, transportation, manufacturing and construction. The deal describes a 10-year "economic mobilization" that would overhaul the nation's infrastructure and build new layers into the existing social safety net. It calls for the creation of millions of new high-wage jobs to help wipe out poverty. The resolution, co-sponsored by several Democrats running for President in 2020, has been heavily criticized by those on the right. Kudlow likened the deal to socialism and called for the American people to "put socialism on trial and convict it." The resolution proposes, "providing all people of the United States with — (i) high-quality health care; (ii) affordable, safe, and adequate housing; (iii) economic security; and (iv) access to clean water, clean air, healthy and affordable food, and nature." The deal proposes "guaranteeing a job with a family-sustaining wage, adequate family and medical leave, paid vacations, and retirement security to all people of the United States." Kudlow said universal health care and ending private insurance were also "crazy ideas," citing high costs. He said, "guaranteed jobs, free to those who don't want to work, probably cost $45 trillion." Earlier this week Ivanka Trump, a senior White House adviser and the President's daughter, was asked about the Green New Deal proposal and what she would say to people who are enticed by the proposal's job guarantee. In response, Ivanka Trump said, "I don't think most Americans in their heart want to be given something," adding, "People want to work for what they get, so I think this idea of a guaranteed minimum is not something most people want." Ocasio-Cortez fired back on Twitter and said, "A living wage isn't a gift, it's a right. Workers are often paid far less than the value they create."	False
614	NewsBusters	right_bias	2017-09-14	High Flying Celebs Fundraise For Hurricanes, Tout 'Effects of Climate Change' Celebrities often claim to be concerned about the environment, usually without changing their lavish lifestyles or pollution.	During a telethon fundraiser on Sept. 12, for Harvey and Irma relief, celebrities like Beyonce linked manmade climate change to the hurricanes.	But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change, why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?	According to Davies, if "driving, pollution from their concerts or films and the electric in their homes are considered," the total was "likely to be astronomic."	In 2011, she co-wrote a USA Today op-ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change.		High Flying Celebs Fundraise For Hurricanes, Tout 'Effects of Climate Change' Celebrities often claim to be concerned about the environment, usually without changing their lavish lifestyles or pollution. During a telethon fundraiser on Sept. 12, for Harvey and Irma relief, celebrities like Beyonce linked manmade climate change to the hurricanes. But the very stars participating in the telethon burn massive amounts of carbon dioxide by their extravagant lifestyles, just as Daily Mail reported on Sept. 13." he effects of climate change are playing out around the world every day," Beyonce claimed in a pre-recorded message. But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change, why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony?"The A-list celebrities who starred in the telethon for those affected by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma have clocked up hundreds of thousands of air miles which have fuelled rising temperatures and helped create devastating storms," Daily Mail foreign reporter Gareth Davies wrote. Climate change activists often claim carbon emissions from driving and flying are a significant cause of man-made warming. Davies found that, in just the past year, Leonardo DiCaprio, George Clooney, Justin Bieber and Beyonce produced at least 52.11 tons of carbon dioxide with their air travel alone. Bieber's jet-setting had the highest carbon footprint, an egregious 22 tons. In comparison, the average American's total carbon footprint is 20 tons. According to Davies, if "driving, pollution from their concerts or films and the electric in their homes are considered," the total was "likely to be astronomic." Although DiCaprio is a self-proclaimed environmentalist, he continued to live an incompatible lifestyle of massive carbon emissions. For the 2017 Oscars, DiCaprio and a fellow actor flew an someone 15,000 miles round trip to tidy their eyebrows. The actor also asked if "are we too late" to stop climate change and blasted the supposed "corporate greed of the coal, oil and gas industries" in January 2016. All while owning multiple mansions, vacationing on yachts and flying thousands of miles in private jets. Even Forbes noted, "DiCaprio himself is one of those "big polluters," which diminishes his moral authority to lecture others on reducing their own carbon emissions" in March 2016. Forbes also challenged DiCaprio's claim that he only produces 11 tons of carbon annually. Clooney criticized global warming skeptics as "stupid" and "ridiculous" in 2013. Despite his rhetoric on climate change however, the actor and his wife Amal owned eight homes as of March 2016, according to the Daily Mail. Other celebrities like Julia Roberts are also eco-hypocrites. In 2011, she co-wrote a USA Today op-ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change. Yet she has owned five homes and a private jet all at the same time. More than 45 celebrities took part in the fundraiser, which brought in more than $44 million. All of the celebrities most likely live far more lavish, carbon-burning lives than average Americans.	True
681	Vox	left_bias	2017-06-01	Chief among them: a warmer planet is one that's more hospitable to disease.	Humans, likewise pressed by climate impacts, encroach more closely on animal habitats.	These goals were widely viewed as a win for public health.	It's not just the future of the environment that's at stake here.	At a February meeting on climate change and health, former Vice President Al Gore focused his talk on this problem.		Climate change will make people sicker. Trump is pulling out of Paris anyway. President Donald Trump is making good on his campaign promise to pull the US out of the Paris climate agreement — a move that's been called a moral disgrace and that's expected to hinder much needed progress in the fight against global warming.A failure to tackle climate change will mean more extreme weather, dirtier air and water, and more food shortages. It'll also mean more disease. Researchers have long been arguing that the effects of climate change could undermine the last 50 years of gains in global health, increasing the spread of infections like yellow fever and chronic diseases like asthma and heart disease. Now is not the time to be scaling back efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The December 2015 agreement, which has been signed by nearly 200 countries, aimed to cut greenhouse gas emissions and keep global warming below 2 degrees Celsius. (The US had committed to cutting its emissions by up to 28 percent from 2005 levels by 2025.) These goals were widely viewed as a win for public health. America's retreat now could be a major setback. There are a number of ways climate change puts us at a greater risk for disease. Chief among them: a warmer planet is one that's more hospitable to disease. Disease-carrying vectors like mosquitoes thrive in warm and moist environments. Zika, dengue, and chikungunya are all spread by the Aedes type mosquito. And one of the reasons researchers think Aedes may be reaching new places — and more people — lately is climate change. It's not just mosquitoes, though: Bird flu, cholera, Lyme disease, salmonella — researchers believe all are being made worse by climate change. At a February meeting on climate change and health, former Vice President Al Gore focused his talk on this problem. "Climate change is tilting the balance, disrupting natural ecosystems and giving more of an advantage to microbes," he said. "Changing climate conditions change the areas in which these diseases can take root and become endemic." (Read Maryn McKenna's New York Times story for more on this.)In addition, deforestation and urbanization are moving humans into areas where they haven't lived before, and putting them into closer contact with animals that carry disease-causing microbes — like bats during West Africa's 2014 Ebola outbreak. Brian Deese, a senior adviser to President Barack Obama overseeing climate change and energy policy, and former Ebola czar Ron Klain explained why in a piece at the Washington Post:Climate change destroys habitats and stresses animal populations such as the bats of West Africa, forcing them to hunt for food nearer to humans. Humans, likewise pressed by climate impacts, encroach more closely on animal habitats. While we cannot know that climate change was the cause of the specific interaction between bats and humans that is believed to have launched the Ebola outbreak in Guinea, we will see more of these interactions in the future, and more epidemics as a result. Ebola demonstrates that even localized dislocation of people and animals can create global risk. Climate change is a threat multiplier for much broader dislocation — accelerating the complex factors that drive people from their homes. Greenhouse gases are not only harmful to the environment — they also increase the risk of everything from asthma to heart disease. According to the Global Burden of Disease project, more than 5 million people die worldwide each year because of air pollution, and emissions from coal-fired plants are a major risk factor here. It's one reason why health experts have been pushing policymakers to rapidly phase out of coal. For miners, the immediate health risks include black lung disease and scarring of the lung tissue. But the pollutants emitted when coal is processed — including sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, and mercury — have much more far-reaching effects on many more people. In one large study involving 450,000 Americans followed between 1982 and 2004, researchers found that increased exposure to the particles in fossil fuel emissions increased the risk of death from heart disease — and particles from coal burning were five times more damaging than other similar particles. Reducing emissions from coal-fired power plants makes it easier to breathe. Over the past 30 years, the percentage of Americans with asthma has more than doubled, and climate change has been a significant driver of that trend. Air pollution triggers asthma attacks, contributing to lung abnormalities, particularly in the developing pulmonary systems of children. The Paris agreement was no panacea — but it nudged the world in the right direction. Now, the US moves backward. It's not just the future of the environment that's at stake here. Our health hangs in the balance, too.	False
316	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-06-18	All of this is to be pursued through jointly held symposia, seminars, workshops, study tours, collaborative research and development projects, exchanges and training programs and other forms of cooperation that strengthen the bonds between UNEP and the U.S.	Taking these and similar steps, the MOU says, will enable the advance "toward green economies and resource-efficient societies through collaborative activities to promote and support sustainable consumption and production."	For the "common goals and objectives" shared by the U.N. body and the Obama administration are specifically crafted to hamstring American fossil-fuel energy development, promote an assortment of politically fashionable, but otherwise uncompetitive, green technologies and products, and perpetuate the deplorable living conditions in the world's poorest countries.	The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	The ties that bound the UN and the Obama administration should not be allowed to constrain the choices of everyday Americans.		This Obama-Era UN-EPA Agreement Has To Go As the Trump White House continues its cleanup of the mess — foreign and domestic — left behind by the Obama administration, it should toss out a little-noticed document that entangles the U.S. in some of the worst schemes ever cooked up by U.N. bureaucrats and their cronies in the global environmental movement. On September 16, 2016, the Obama EPA entered into a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP). Concluded just a few weeks before the 2016 presidential election, the MOU bears the signature for the U.S. of then-EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy. In the document, UNEP and the Obama EPA vow to "consolidate, further develop and intensify their cooperation and effectiveness to achieve their common goals and objectives in the field of the environment." And therein lies the problem. For the "common goals and objectives" shared by the U.N. body and the Obama administration are specifically crafted to hamstring American fossil-fuel energy development, promote an assortment of politically fashionable, but otherwise uncompetitive, green technologies and products, and perpetuate the deplorable living conditions in the world's poorest countries. An Instrument of the Paris Climate AccordThe document was signed nine months after the adoption of the U.N.-sponsored Paris climate accord, and the wording of the MOU leaves little doubt that it was seen as an instrument to underscore America's commitment to curtail its production and use of energy in the name of combatting climate change. Thus, UNEP and the Obama EPA agreed to "cooperate on responses to climate change," including mitigating greenhouse gas emissions, reducing short-lived climate forcers and supporting adaptation and resilience to climate change. Taking these and similar steps, the MOU says, will enable the advance "toward green economies and resource-efficient societies through collaborative activities to promote and support sustainable consumption and production." In truth, "green economies" are those with taxpayer-subsidized and government-mandated renewable energy (primarily wind and solar). And what constitutes "sustainable consumption and production" is in the eyes of the beholding bureaucrat, empowered either by the administrative regulatory state or by legislation adopted at the behest of deep-pocketed special interests. All of this is to be pursued through jointly held symposia, seminars, workshops, study tours, collaborative research and development projects, exchanges and training programs and other forms of cooperation that strengthen the bonds between UNEP and the U.S. Under the MOU, each side is to name a "Senior Coordinator" to oversee the holding of "regular joint meetings on matters of common interest." To make sure the two sides stay in touch, "such meetings are to take place at least once every six months in accordance with an agenda approved by them in advance of every meeting." The outfit the Obama administration teamed up within the MOU, UNEP, was founded in 1972 by wealthy Canadian businessman Maurice Strong; it is headquartered in Nairobi, Kenya and has an office conveniently located in Washington, D.C. Strong (1929–2015) was Under-Secretary-General of the U.N. when he founded UNEP and was an early advocate for combatting what he said was human-induced climate change, then known as global warming. In keeping with Strong's vision, UNEP has worked closely with the Bonn-based United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). For its part, UNFCCC has enthusiastically spread climate alarmism and gone to extraordinary lengths to deny the residents of the world's poorest access to reliable and affordable electricity and transportation fuel, thereby perpetuating their poverty. Given UNEP's pedigree and the Obama administration's unbridled hostility to fossil fuels, President Trump should scrap the UNEP-EPA MOU. Trump and EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt inherited the MOU from their predecessors and are under no obligation to adhere to its content. The White House has already withdrawn from the Paris climate accord, and President Trump chose to skip the climate-change session at the recent G7 meeting in Quebec. Continued fealty to the Obama-era MOU runs counter to the president's goal of American global energy dominance, which is anchored to our abundance of oil, natural gas, and coal. The ties that bound the UN and the Obama administration should not be allowed to constrain the choices of everyday Americans. Even if the MOU is "non-binding," so, too, are the commitments all parties agreed to under the Paris climate accord.  But recognizing the threat the Paris accord posed to U.S. energy security, the Trump White House wisely walked away from it. The UNEP-EPA memorandum is little more than an implementation tool of the Paris agreement and should suffer the same fate. Both are part of what is, at its core, a decidedly anti-American agenda. Bonner R. Cohen, Ph.D, is a senior policy analyst with the Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow (CFACT). The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	True
790	Yahoo News	left_center_bias	2017-06-01	Concern about rising sea levels was one of many factors that inspired the Paris Agreement's goal of limiting the rise of global temperatures.	e are watching with bated breath," the team wrote.	he calving event will probably be slow and graceful," the scientists of Project MIDAS wrote.	The group states that although this specific crack was not likely caused by climate change, the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves contributes to rising sea levels that threaten coastal cities."	Rising sea levels endanger heavily populated cities such as New York, San Francisco, New Orleans and Miami, and are predicted to cause 13.1 million Americans to relocate from coastal areas by 2100.		Massive Crack in Antarctic Ice Shelf Grows 11 Miles in 6 Days, Potentially Creating World's Largest Iceberg An aerial view of the Antarctic Peninsula's Larsen C ice shelf. According to NASA, IceBridge scientists measured the Larsen C fracture to be about 70 miles long, more than 300 feet wide and about a third of a mile deep. (Photo: John Sonntag/NASA via AP)In the six days before President Trump announced his decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change, an enormous crack in an Antarctic ice shelf grew 11 miles, according to a report by British Antarctic research group Project MIDAS. The crack, which is located in Larson Shelf C, leaves only eight miles of ice connecting what could be one of the world's largest recorded icebergs to Antarctica. When it eventually breaks free from the continent, the resulting iceberg will measure 31,000 square miles, represent 10 percent of the ice shelf's original mass and be larger than the state of Rhode Island. The growth spurt between May 25 and May 31 was the largest they have observed since January, Project MIDAS says, and the inevitable splintering of Ice Shelf C will drastically alter the landscape of the continent and will make the ice that remains less stable. The group states that although this specific crack was not likely caused by climate change, the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves contributes to rising sea levels that threaten coastal cities." hen [ice shelves] disappear, ice can flow faster from the land to the ocean and contribute more quickly to sea level rise," Adrian Luckman and Martin O'Leary of Project MIDAS wrote in February. Rising sea levels endanger heavily populated cities such as New York, San Francisco, New Orleans and Miami, and are predicted to cause 13.1 million Americans to relocate from coastal areas by 2100. Concern about rising sea levels was one of many factors that inspired the Paris Agreement's goal of limiting the rise of global temperatures. Project MIDAS expects the ice shelf to mimic the break up of Larson Ice Shelf B, which shattered over a period of two weeks in 2002." he calving event will probably be slow and graceful," the scientists of Project MIDAS wrote. "The ice is already floating, so when the fracture breaks all the way through, it will simply start to drift away." The group is unsure exactly when the rapidly growing crack will cause Ice Shelf C to break free from Antarctica, but believes that the rift has now reached a region of soft ice and that there is very little holding the ice shelf together." e are watching with bated breath," the team wrote.	False
522	bbc	left_center_bias	2018-03-23	Scientists say governments, businesses, and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming, fishing, forestry, mining, or infrastructure development.	Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia, leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said: "We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have."	The report conducted by 550 experts from around the world said reduced biodiversity could affect people's quality of life.	Academic volunteers looked through some 10,000 scientific publications for what is said to be the most extensive biodiversity survey since 2005.	Among the list of the biggest threats to food and water security were pollution, climate change, and deforestation.		Half of African species 'face extinction' The actions of mankind could lead to the extinction of half of African birds and mammals by the end of 2100, a UN-backed study has said. The report conducted by 550 experts from around the world said reduced biodiversity could affect people's quality of life. It also found 42% of land-based animal and plant species in Europe and Central Asia have declined in the last decade. The findings come after the death of the last male northern white rhino. Despite the bleak findings, the study also pointed to some successes in reversing declines in wildlife. The study by the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) showed forest cover in China and other parts of north-east Asia had risen by more than 20% between 1990 and 2015. It also found that animals, such as the amur leopard, which were once on the verge of the extinction had grown in population. Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia, leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said: "We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have." Fortunately, the evidence also shows that we know how to protect and partially restore our vital natural assets." Academic volunteers looked through some 10,000 scientific publications for what is said to be the most extensive biodiversity survey since 2005. Among the list of the biggest threats to food and water security were pollution, climate change, and deforestation. Scientists say governments, businesses, and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming, fishing, forestry, mining, or infrastructure development.	False
334	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-08-14	Research also shows that wildfire season has primarily grown from population growth in fire-prone areas, increasing the chances of a fire-causing spark.	This has to do with active forest management."	Many experts also see global warming as a factor in the rise of fires, but admit the relationship is more complicated than the media lets on."	So what's the point of attacking environmentalists?	Instead, activists focus on global warming, arguing human-caused warming has expanded wildfire season due to longer hotter, drier conditions in the western states.		Ryan Zinke Shifts The Wildfire Debate From Global Warming To Anti-Logging 'Environmental Terrorists' Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke spent the last week targeting environmental groups that have for years opposed activities, like logging and thinning, to reduce the risks of catastrophic wildfires on federal lands. The former Montana congressman blamed "litigation from radical environmentalists who would rather see forests and communities burn than see a logger in the woods," in a USA Today op-ed published Wednesday. Zinke also called out "extreme environmentalists" in an interview with KCRA that aired Sunday. The day before that, Zinke lambasted "environmental terrorists groups that have not allowed public access, that refuse to allow harvest of timber" in an interview with Breitbart Radio. Deadly wildfires have consumed over 1 million acres in West Coast states, damaging structures and forcing thousands to flee their homes. The recent death of a firefighter battling the nearly 350,000-acre Mendocino Complex Fire brings the death toll to six for this season. So what's the point of attacking environmentalists? Zinke is taking the conversation away from global warming and bringing it back to land management, including the litigation and environmental laws that keep officials from actively managing the forests. Instead, activists focus on global warming, arguing human-caused warming has expanded wildfire season due to longer hotter, drier conditions in the western states. At the same time, these groups often oppose efforts to clear forests of debris and dead wood that fuel fires when hot, dry weather sets in every year." 've heard the climate change argument back and forth," Zinke told the Sacramento-based KCRA. "This has nothing to do with climate change. This has to do with active forest management." (RELATED: California's Biggest Utility Continues To Blame Global Warming For Wildfires Started By Its Own Power Lines)Wildfire experts tend to see land management and urban growth as prime drivers of wildfires. Many experts also see global warming as a factor in the rise of fires, but admit the relationship is more complicated than the media lets on." he story can't be a simply that warming is increasing the numbers of wildfires in California because the number of fires is declining. And area burned has not been increasing either," University of Washington climate scientist Cliff Mass wrote in a recent blog post. In fact, the recent National Climate Assessment special report gave "low to medium confidence for a detectable human climate change contribution in the western United States based on existing studies." Most wildfires are caused by humans, mostly unintentionally. Sparks from vehicles or equipment, power lines, arson and cigarettes are some of the ways humans cause massive blazes. Lightning is the cause of wildfires humans don't spark. In California, for example, humans caused 95 percent of all wildfires, with power lines and utility equipment becoming a growing problem. Research also shows that wildfire season has primarily grown from population growth in fire-prone areas, increasing the chances of a fire-causing spark. Environmentalists have obviously not taken kindly to Zinke's remarks, but are particularly incensed by his dismissal of global warming as a driver of catastrophic wildfires. Randi Spivak, public lands program director at the Center for Biological Diversity, said the administration is missing the main issue by being dismissive of climate change's effect on the fires." limate change creates drought, high wind conditions, low humidity. Fire creates its own weather," Randi Spivak, the public lands director at the Center for Biological Diversity, told The Hill." ou can thin all you want till the cows come home but fire will overtake that," Spivak said, adding "what is misleading is people like Zinke and other people who refuse to talk about climate change and how we need to tackle that." Name calling and finger pointing won't change the truth that climate change is exacerbating wildfires," echoed the Sierra Club's Athan Manuel. "The long-term safety of our communities relies on reducing carbon pollution." Zinke actually did say fire season had gotten longer and temperatures had warmed, but added that "doesn't relieve you of the responsibility to remove the dead and dying timber and manage our forests so you don't have these catastrophic burns." But Zinke is correct that environmental litigation has kept federal agencies, including the Interior Department and U.S. Forest Service, from thinning, clearing debris and conducting prescribed burns to keep forest growth in check.A 2014 study published in the Journal of Forestry found "[v]egetative management, or logging projects continued to be the dominant type of management activity involved in Forest Service land management litigation, representing nearly three times more cases than any other type of management activity." The Forest Service was found more likely to lose cases "where plaintiffs advocated for less resource use," particularly in the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals where the agency won less than half its cases. In fact, the 9th Circuit on Monday overturned a Forest Service plan for part of Idaho's Payette National Forest. The judge sided with environmental groups and ruled "renders the Project inconsistent with the desired vegetative conditions set forth in the Payette Forest Plan" from 2003. The service's plan that got overturned included getting "fire conditions toward historical range of variability to reduce wildland fire risk, improve wildlife habitat" through "mechanical thinning, harvest and prescribed burning."	False
223	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-11-06	The result is then classified on a scale from good to hazardous."	And of course it's the elderly who suffer, the very young and people with pre-existing respiratory illnesses like or heart problems."	The effect of pollution is different for every person," explains Dr Christine Cowie of the University of New South Wales."	And you can't underestimate how important agricultural burning is - even though people often think only of cars and heavy industry as the causes."	In this episode, the big problem really seems to have been the agricultural burning," assistant professor Thomas Smith of the London School of Economics told the BBC."		Why is India's pollution much worse than China's? As India's north continues to struggle with extreme pollution levels, the story has put a fresh spotlight on air quality in cities across Asia. Beijing has long been notorious for its smog - but statistics show that India, Pakistan and Bangladesh have worse air by far. So why is South Asia so much more polluted?Of the world's most polluted 30 cities, 22 are in India, according to research by IQ AirVisual, a Swiss-based group that gathers air-quality data globally, and Greenpeace. The remaining eight cities are all in Pakistan, Bangladesh and China - but the list doesn't include Beijing, which comes in at number 122. Just looking at global capitals, it's also Asian cities that top the ranking. Looking at overall countries, it's Bangladesh that has the worst air, followed by Pakistan and then India. All these rankings are based on average air quality per year. As these countries have very different densities of measuring stations and transparency of data, the statistics have to be read with a degree of caution. But they certainly indicate an overall trend.• The fight against air pollution in three global citiesWhy is India worse off than China?Pollution in urban areas is usually a mix of different factors - mostly traffic, fossil fuel burning power plants and heavy industries. What differentiates China from India is that in the latter, there is still a lot of burning of agricultural stubble when farmers want to clear their fields. The burning usually takes place in autumn." In this episode, the big problem really seems to have been the agricultural burning," assistant professor Thomas Smith of the London School of Economics told the BBC." That's one thing that China has tackled. All agricultural burning has been banned, full stop."A global overview for fires and thermal abnormalities is made available by Nasa, and allows users to track developments over past days and weeks. The area north-west of Delhi shows a highly unusual concentration of fires, Prof Smith points out." And you can't underestimate how important agricultural burning is - even though people often think only of cars and heavy industry as the causes." In the wake of the pollution spike, India's Supreme Court ordered a stop to stubble burning in the states around Delhi. But the city's situation is made worse by the colder winter air which is more stagnant, trapping the pollutants in place. Prof Smith also points out that "while India is largely reactive, Beijing tends to be more proactive and preventative to try to stop the problems from happening in the first place". What does pollution feel like?Pollution levels are categorised by measuring the levels of dangerous particles in the air. The result is then classified on a scale from good to hazardous." The effect of pollution is different for every person," explains Dr Christine Cowie of the University of New South Wales." Some people complain about irritation to the eyes, to the throat, exacerbations of wheeze and asthma symptoms. Coughing is certainly also a very common symptom - even in non-asthmatic people." And of course it's the elderly who suffer, the very young and people with pre-existing respiratory illnesses like or heart problems." She explains that even a short exposure to the unhealthy or worse pollution levels can trigger an asthma attack or increase the risk of a stroke. The longer the exposure, the greater the risks. And the ways to protect oneself are limited. There's the advice to stay indoors, to reduce physical exercise and to wear a mask - but in many poorer parts of the world, none of these options really work for regular people." It is toxic air," says David Taylor, professor of tropical environmental change at the National University of Singapore." It must be very uncomfortable - especially if you're having to work outside and if you're having to do jobs that require quite a lot of energy." You feel like it's hard to breathe," agrees Prof Smith." It's like doing hardcore exercise when you just take a walk outside. And depending on the kind of pollution, you can of course also smell it in the air." How does it compare to Europe or the US?Today, pollution levels in Europe, Australia and the US are significantly lower than the extreme readings that India has experienced in the past few days. But it's not always been like that. London, for instance, was notorious for its pollution during much of the 19th and early 20th centuries. As late as 1952, the so-called Great Smog covered London with a thick toxic layer of pollution, bringing the city almost to a standstill for days, not unlike the situation in Delhi now. It's thought to have resulted in thousands of deaths. While London experienced a different mix of pollutants, "it probably wasn't far off what's currently happening in Delhi," says Mr Taylor. Back then, power stations along the Thames were major polluters of the British capital. In fact - much of what we know today about the health impact of air pollution dates back to the experiences of the London smog during those years.	False
403	cnn	left_bias	2018-08-23	"They're a matter of life or death."	We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue," he said.	At this year's State of the Union address, Trump talked about ending "the war on beautiful, clean coal."	Throughout his campaign and presidency, Trump has lauded his plan to replace the Obama administration's climate change policies with rules and regulations that would be more friendly toward the coal industry.	Coal miner: Trump's 'false promises' will 'only line the pockets' of executives A fifth-generation coal miner from Virginia has spoken out against President Donald Trump's rhetoric surrounding the coal mining industry, saying the President is making "false promises that are only going to line the pockets of coal executives."		Coal miner: Trump's 'false promises' will 'only line the pockets' of executives A fifth-generation coal miner from Virginia has spoken out against President Donald Trump's rhetoric surrounding the coal mining industry, saying the President is making "false promises that are only going to line the pockets of coal executives." In a New York Times op-ed video published Tuesday, Nick Mullins, a ninth-generation Appalachian from Virginia, said that if Trump wants to help the Appalachian mining communities that support him, "lowering emission standards is not the way to do it." At this year's State of the Union address, Trump talked about ending "the war on beautiful, clean coal." Mullins says "coal cannot be clean," and that miners know firsthand." We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue," he said. "They're a matter of life or death." On Tuesday, the newly proposed Affordable Clean Energy Rule was announced , which would allow states to set their own emission standards for coal-fueled power plants. Throughout his campaign and presidency, Trump has lauded his plan to replace the Obama administration's climate change policies with rules and regulations that would be more friendly toward the coal industry. The Obama administration's Clean Power Plan made greenhouse gas emissions federally regulated for the first time.	True
857	RT	questionable_source	2017-10-27	"This fee structure ignores human nature, which is to take shortcuts to get the money without any accountability unless they get caught."	I'm convinced by looking at this that you're witnessing a criminal violation of several statues, not just one."	They were hoping no one would question it.	After seeing the recent footage of workers dumping the toxic waste at the site, state Representative Gerry Pollet, who also serves as the executive director of Heart of America Northwest, called their actions "outrageous."	t's a crime.		Video shows workers at Hanford illegally dumping radioactive water Investigators are looking into the Hanford nuclear facility in Washington state, after contractors were filmed dumping radiation-affected water and later tried to bury the evidence at the site of one of the largest nuclear cleanup efforts in the world. Several videos obtained by Seattle's KING-TV show workers at the Hanford facility's Plutonium Finishing Plant (PFP) dumping liquids from large metal containers that are labeled "Caution: radioactive materials." In nearly 25 years of working here I've never seen anything like that," a Hanford worker told KING. The workers are employed by Washington River Protection Solutions (WRPS), the organization responsible for cleaning approximately 53 million gallons of high-level radioactive and chemical waste stored in the containers at Hanford. The facility dates back to the Manhattan Project in the 1940s. For decades, it produced the majority of the plutonium for the US nuclear weapons arsenal. In 1988, production stopped and the site became a burying ground for radioactive waste. Hanford has since become the most contaminated spot in the Western Hemisphere, prompting a multi-billion dollar clean-up process that isn't expected to be completed until 2060." he soils under Hanford are extensively contaminated over a broad, broad area. The one thing you don't want to do is create more waste sites," said Dirk Dunning, a chemical engineer and Hanford expert. WRPS told state investigators that workers dumped around 15 gallons of potentially toxic water on August 15 and 200 gallons on August 17, according to a document from the Department of Ecology. Washington law makes it a gross misdemeanor to discharge pollutants into the water or soil. The company was also required to report any discharge of toxic waste to the Department of Ecology within 24 hours. However, WRPS did not report the discharges for nearly a month, and a notification from the Department of Ecology shows the company only made the report days after KING emailed WRPS, federal and state officials, and the Environmental Crimes Unit of the state Office of the Attorney General about the incident." hey knew it was wrong (to dump the liquids) but they did it anyway. They were hoping no one would question it. They definitely knew it should have been reported," a WRPS employee said. WRPS had been tasked with digging up 18 underground nuclear waste hoses and putting them in containers, which would then be buried in a nuclear waste dump at the facility. When workers found one of their containers filled with rainwater, they decided to dump it onto the ground rather than testing the water or transferring it to new containers.A contract shows the company would earn $58,333 for each hose that was removed, for a total of more than $1 million dollars, if they finished the project by September 30. WRPS dumped the toxic liquid in order to meet their deadline, said Tom Carpenter, executive director at Hanford Challenge, a watchdog organization working to keep contractors working at the facility accountable." hey are here for the money and that's it," Carpenter told KING. "This fee structure ignores human nature, which is to take shortcuts to get the money without any accountability unless they get caught." The Department of Ecology has launched an investigation and has already been to the site to take soil samples to check for chemicals such as arsenic, lead and fluorene at the first dumping site. However, after WRPS did a radiological survey and identified beta and gamma radioactive contamination, they removed the contaminated soil and surrounding debris, which can no longer be tested by investigators. The disposal of radioactive waste at Hanford has been plagued with problems. RT visited the site last year, after workers were evacuated from the facility due to a leak of thousands of gallons of toxic waste. Locals said that the site occasionally "burps" radiation, which has led to a number of employees developing serious medical conditions over the years. In August, the company tested more than 300 workers, and found 20 percent tested positive for radiation contamination. The Department of Energy estimates that 444 billion gallons of radioactive material and chemical waste were discharged onto the grounds of the facility and into the Columbia River in the first 50 years since the facility opened. Dumping at the site without a permit became illegal after the nonprofit advocacy group Heart of America Northwest sued the Department of Energy in 1993. After seeing the recent footage of workers dumping the toxic waste at the site, state Representative Gerry Pollet, who also serves as the executive director of Heart of America Northwest, called their actions "outrageous." This is the kind of thing that caused Hanford to be the most contaminated place in the Western Hemisphere in the first place. I am shocked to see something like this in 2017," Pollet said." t's a crime. I'm convinced by looking at this that you're witnessing a criminal violation of several statues, not just one."	False
250	rt	questionable_source	2019-05-19	Think your friends would be interested?	Read 'Real Clear Politics' – it will tell you about how I started this whole thing back in 1987 – climate change."	Share this story!	Social media users were quick to criticize Biden's response, with some mocking him for saying he had started climate change, and others pointing out that his 1987 effort didn't really work out so well.	Congressman Al Gore held House hearings on climate change in 1976, and as a senator introduced a resolution calling for a research program into greenhouse gas emissions in 1985.		Joe Biden mocked for claiming to have started the climate change movement (VIDEO) Joe Biden has been roundly mocked on Twitter after making the unlikely claim to a young activist appealing for a presidential debate on climate change that he kicked-off the whole global warming movement back in the late 1980s.A young activist from US Youth Climate Strike asked Biden if he would support a presidential climate policy forum organized by the group. Biden interrupted the girl before she was finished, asking, "By the way, did you know I'm the guy who did all this? Read 'Real Clear Politics' – it will tell you about how I started this whole thing back in 1987 – climate change." Social media users were quick to criticize Biden's response, with some mocking him for saying he had started climate change, and others pointing out that his 1987 effort didn't really work out so well. Biden has repeatedly boasted of his 80's climate change concern, telling voters he was the first to introduce a climate bill. In 1987, Biden delivered a Senate speech warning of the dangers of global warming, and his Global Climate Protection Act called for setting up a task force to plan to tackle the issue. While he is the first to have a climate bill passed, he certainly isn't the first politician to raise the alarm about climate change, let alone have 'started' the whole thing. Congressman Al Gore held House hearings on climate change in 1976, and as a senator introduced a resolution calling for a research program into greenhouse gas emissions in 1985. The following year, Republican Senator John Chafee held Senate climate hearings warning of the "serious problem" and featuring an expert explaining that 'significant' warming could happen within 5-15 years. Biden has been criticized for reportedly planning a 'middle ground' approach to climate policy that is accused of lacking urgency and not going far enough. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False
279	dailymail	questionable_source	2019-09-24	Thunberg documented parts of her journey on Twitter, where she included videos of choppy weather conditions, photos of herself and the crew, and commentaries about climate change.	People are suffering, people are dying, entire ecosystems are collapsing, and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth.	The Swedish teenager named this week's UN Climate Action Summit and the Chile conference in December as her main reasons for crossing the Atlantic.	'You have stolen my dreams, my childhood with your empty words.	Her protests have inspired wealthy donors to contribute to a Climate Emergency Fund to support the protests and the simultaneous Extinction Rebellion movement.		Greta Thunberg doesn't know how she will return to Sweden Teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg has already caused a sensation on her trip to North America, tearing into world leaders yesterday in an emotional speech at the United Nations and giving a death stare to Donald Trump. What is not yet clear is how the 16-year-old will get back to Sweden, because she refuses to travel on fuel-guzzling planes and the 60ft racing boat she travelled on is already back in Europe. Two crew members have flown to the U.S. to sail the Malizia II back across the Atlantic and it is not yet clear exactly when Thunberg will be going home. When she set off from Britain last month she admitted: 'I don't know yet how I will get home'. Non-stop flights from London to New York City take between eight to ten hours for a 3,470-mile journey. It equates to about 183,910 pounds of emissions per flight between the two cities and Thunberg refuses to add to the environmental cost. She has also persuaded her parents to stop flying, hampering her mother's career as an international opera singer.'My generation won't be able to fly other than for emergencies, in a foreseeable future if we are to be the least bit serious' about limiting global warming, she has previously said. Thunberg also refuses to travel aboard a cruise ship, as they are also notoriously big polluters. The Malizia II is now back in France after sailing back from New York without Thunberg. Unless the Malizia II returns to North America she will have to find a different mode of transport back across the Atlantic when she eventually leaves. In the meantime, she plans to promote her climate agenda across North America. This week she will travel from New York to Montreal to join a school climate strike in Canada on what is expected to be a day of global protests. She also hopes to visit Mexico, and is due in Chile for a climate summit in December, travelling across the Americas by bus and train. The 16-year-old is taking a year out of school to lobby for climate action after starting the school strike movement in Sweden last August. She skipped school for the first three weeks after term began and then took Fridays off to spend the day outside Sweden's parliament with a sign labelled 'School strike for climate'. Her protests have inspired wealthy donors to contribute to a Climate Emergency Fund to support the protests and the simultaneous Extinction Rebellion movement. Its donors include heiress Aileen Getty, American philanthropist Trevor Neilson, and filmmaker Rory Kennedy, a member of the political Kennedy clan. The Swedish teenager named this week's UN Climate Action Summit and the Chile conference in December as her main reasons for crossing the Atlantic. She said last year she had been invited to speak around the world but refused to make the necessary flights. But in June she said 'it looks like a large part of our future will probably be decided in New York and Santiago' and agreed to travel to North America on the yacht. Pierre Casiraghi, the grandson of Monaco's late Prince Rainier III and American actress Grace Kelly, and fellow yachtsman Boris Herrmann offered her passage on the Malizia II. She arrived last month after a two-week journey aboard the racing yacht. Thunberg documented parts of her journey on Twitter, where she included videos of choppy weather conditions, photos of herself and the crew, and commentaries about climate change. Last week she joined a school strike in New York City where school officials allowed pupils the day off to attend the protest. In her impassioned address yesterday she said: 'This is all wrong. I shouldn't be up here. I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean.'Yet you have come to us young people for hope. How dare you? 'You have stolen my dreams, my childhood with your empty words.'Yet I'm one of the lucky ones. People are suffering, people are dying, entire ecosystems are collapsing, and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth. How dare you?''The eyes of future generations are on you and if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you. We will not let you get away with this.'Trump sent a mocking tweet, saying: 'She seems like a very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future. So nice to see!'Fewer than half the 136 heads of government or state in New York this week to attend the UN General Assembly attended on Monday. Ahead of the conference, the United Nations issued a release saying 66 countries vowed to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, along with 10 regions, 102 cities, and scores of businesses.	True
732	Politicus USA	left_bias	2017-09-09	He said he was more worried about the nuclear waste than the reactors."	At Fukushima in Japan, an earthquake and tsunami disrupted power supplies and caused the fuel in some units to meltdown."	nuclear operators have taken steps to improve preparations for disasters since Fukushima.	Nuclear plants also hired more staff and stored equipment needed to deal with reactor problems."	FPL is one of four large publicly traded utilities in Florida.		Hurricane Irma poses toughest test for U.S. nuclear industry since Fukushima (Reuters) – Hurricane Irma will pose the toughest test yet for U.S. nuclear power plants since reactors strengthened their defenses against natural disasters following the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear accident in Japan in 2011. Irma was on course to hit South Florida early on Sunday after slamming Cuba as a Category 5 storm. It weakened to a Category 3 storm with maximum sustained winds of 130 miles per hour (210 km per hour) on Saturday, but was expected to strengthen before reaching Florida, bringing a storm surge to a state home to four coastal nuclear reactors. The National Hurricane Center's forecast track shows Irma making landfall on the southwest side of the Florida Peninsula, west of the two nuclear reactors at the Turkey Point plant. The operator, Florida Power & Light (FPL), has said it will shut Turkey Point well before hurricane-strength winds reach the plant. The reactors are about 30 miles (42 kilometers) south of Miami. FPL said it will also shut the other nuclear plant in Florida at St Lucie, which also has two reactors on a barrier island on the state's east coast, about 120 miles (193 km) north of Miami." e will shut the reactors down 24 hours before Category 1 force winds are forecast to hit," FPL Chief Executive Eric Silagy told a news conference. FPL said both Turkey Point and St Lucie were designed to withstand storms stronger than any ever recorded in the region and both plants are elevated 20 feet (6 meters) above sea level to protect against flooding and extreme storm surges. But South Miami Mayor Philip Stoddard said he was concerned about the potential for floods to damage power generators at Turkey Point, which in turn might threaten the ability of the plant to keep spent nuclear fuel rods cool. At Fukushima in Japan, an earthquake and tsunami disrupted power supplies and caused the fuel in some units to meltdown." he whole site is pretty well able to handle dangerous wind, the real problem from my perspective is water," Stoddard said. He said he was more worried about the nuclear waste than the reactors." he real question is can they keep the spent fuel cool." Peter Robbins, an FPL spokesman, said "Mayor Stoddard is wrong. Turkey Point is safe and is ready for Hurricane Irma."U.S. nuclear operators have taken steps to improve preparations for disasters since Fukushima. The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) required plants to install portable pumps and generators to keep water moving over fuel rods and the spent fuel pool even if offsite power supply was lost. Nuclear plants also hired more staff and stored equipment needed to deal with reactor problems." hings are better today than in March 2011. Time will tell whether better proves good enough," said Dave Lochbaum, director of a watchdog group, the nuclear safety project, at the Union of Concerned Scientists. The NRC said it was posting more inspectors at the two Florida plants and was considering sending more inspectors to plants in Georgia and South Carolina should the storm head that way. The NRC said the plants should not be compromised by Irma's storm surge." he storm surge forecasts that we have seen so far do not challenge the sites' designs," said NRC spokesman Scott Burnell. Both Florida plants have previously weathered major storms. Turkey Point took a hit from Hurricane Andrew, a Category 5 storm, in 1992, damaging a smokestack at fossil fuel plant at the site. Repairs cost about $90 million. St Lucie withstood the back-to-back impact of Hurricanes Frances (Category 2) and Jeanne (Category 3) in 2004. FPL shut St Lucie last October as Hurricane Matthew skirted the Florida coast. Lochbaum said the NRC and the industry could do more to reduce vulnerability to flooding. In January 2014, about 50,000 gallons of rainwater leaked into the St Lucie plant after a heavy downpour. An NRC study blamed degraded and missing flood seals that were not discovered during checks after Fukushima. There is also spent nuclear fuel at the site of a third power plant in Florida which stopped operating in 2009. That is the Crystal River plant, owned by Duke Energy Corp. Duke is in the process of transferring used fuel from the spent fuel pool at the plant to dry cask storage as part of work to decommission the plant. Once in storage, the fuel no longer needs cooling. The NRC's Burnell said Duke has suspended work to transfer the rods ahead of Irma. He said the fuel was safe and the plant also has backup power, even though it has been shut for years. Irma is expected to disrupt much of Florida's power supply. FPL, the state's largest electric company, has warned Irma could cut service to about 4.1 million of its nearly 5 million customers. FPL is one of four large publicly traded utilities in Florida. Other natural disasters since Fukushima have shut some plants. An earthquake in Virginia in 2011 shut Dominion Energy Inc's North Anna plant for about 2-1/2 months, the time it took to complete a full damage inspection. That plant sustained no major damage. Hurricane Sandy in 2012 caused three reactors in the U.S. Northeast to shut but inflicted no serious damage.	False
765	Fusion	left_center_bias	2017-05-12	e hope that loss contributes towards a dialogue about what to do about it," he said.	"It's important that the data is out there and is being discussed."	Future tourists will be confronted by a vista devoid of glaciers, a loss that Farge said will be "poignant"."	Last year, 2.9m people visited Glacier national park.	This story was originally published by The Guardian US and is reproduced here as part of Climate Desk.		The contiguous U.S. will be glacier-free within decades thanks to global warming wikimedia commonsIt's now "inevitable" that the contiguous United States will lose all of its glaciers within a matter of decades, according to scientists who have revealed the precipitous shrinkage of dozens of glaciers in Montana. Warming temperatures have rapidly reduced the size of 39 named glaciers in Montana since 1966, according to comparisons released by the US Geological Survey (USGS) and Portland State University. Some have lost as much as 85% of their expanse over the past 50 years, with Glacier national park, site of 37 of the surveyed glaciers, set to lose all of its eponymous ice formations within the next few decades. Of the 150 glaciers that existed in the park in the late 19th century, only 26 remain. The disappearance of glaciers in Montana is part of a broader loss that will see all glaciers, defined as moving bodies of snow and ice larger than 25 acres, largely vanish from the lower 48 states of America by the mid point of the century, according to Dr Daniel Farge, lead USGS scientist." t's inevitable that we will lose them all over the next few decades," Farge said. "The Colorado glaciers started melting before Montana's and while there are larger glaciers in the Pacific north-west that will hold on longer, the number vanishing will steadily grow until none are left." Andrew Fountain, a geologist at Portland State, added: "While the shrinkage in Montana is more severe than some other places in the US, it is in line with trends that have been happening on a global scale." Rising temperatures – Montana is warming nearly twice as quickly as the global average – and changes in precipitation patterns are eroding away glaciers in the state and elsewhere along the Rocky mountains. Last year, scientists in Colorado found that the Arikaree glacier, which is likely more than 1,000 years old, has been thinning by around a metre (3.2ft) a year over the past decade and will vanish within 25 years.  Warming winters are bringing more rain, rather than glacier-forming snow, to Montana and other states. Even when there is plenty of snow, as Montana experienced this winter, the increasing heat of spring and summer is melting it away more quickly. Spring snow melts are now occurring at least two weeks earlier than they were in the 1960s. Scientists analyzed the extent of the 39 Montanan glaciers by studying aerial and satellite imagery stretching back to 1966. The latest data, from 2015, shows that there are now just 26 glaciers larger than 25 acres. The largest, Harrison glacier, is now 410 acres – a 19% decrease over the past 50 years. Others have declined by up to 85%. Glaciers have been in this stretch of the northern Rockies for around 7,000 years and the study of tree ring data and piles of rocks left behind by shifting glaciers show there were around 150 of the ice formations in the Glacier national park area in 1850. Most have now disappeared. Farge said glaciers started to shrink from around 1910 and then entered "rapid and continual" melting from the 1970s onwards. The environmental conditions now experienced in the region are a marked departure from historical norms." he glaciers have waxed and waned with different climate fluctuations but this is the first time they are heading for almost certain extinction," Farge said." his is the first time in 7,000 years they've experienced this temperature and precipitation. There's no hope for them to survive. We'd need a major reversal where it would get cooler, not just stop getting warmer. There's nothing to suggest that will happen." Farge said the decline of the glaciers outlined in the research is probably conservative as it focuses upon the extent of the glaciers, not the volume. Thinning glacier ice may cover a reasonable area but is particularly vulnerable to further warming and melting. Last year, 2.9m people visited Glacier national park. Future tourists will be confronted by a vista devoid of glaciers, a loss that Farge said will be "poignant"." e hope that loss contributes towards a dialogue about what to do about it," he said. "It's important that the data is out there and is being discussed." According to Nasa, the world's glaciers have lost around 400bn tons of ice per year since 1994, a decline that has impacted wildlife, increased wildfire risk in places and contributed to rapid sea level rise. This story was originally published by The Guardian US and is reproduced here as part of Climate Desk.	False
383	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-11-05	Supporters say the ballot measure would protect public health, but opponents say it's a red herring meant as a de facto ban on fracking.	Jay Inslee and many Democrats and environmentalists who want to fight man-made global warming.	Voters from Washington to Florida will be able to partake in important energy policy decisions for their states.	(RELATED: Severe Storms Brewing For Election Day, Threaten To Swing Tight Races)Washington voters will decide whether or not to tax carbon dioxide emissions, a policy championed by Democratic Gov.	Opponents have attacked the ballot measure for its odd pairing of issues — smoking and offshore drilling.		These Six States Have Energy And Global Warming On The Ballot This Election There is a wave of energy-related ballot initiatives for voters to weigh in on this election year. Voters from Washington to Florida will be able to partake in important energy policy decisions for their states. Will Washington become the first state to tax carbon dioxide emissions? Will California undo a gas tax increase passed just seven months ago?The Daily Caller News Foundation lays out everything one needs to know about the six most important energy battles this election. (RELATED: Severe Storms Brewing For Election Day, Threaten To Swing Tight Races)Washington voters will decide whether or not to tax carbon dioxide emissions, a policy championed by Democratic Gov. Jay Inslee and many Democrats and environmentalists who want to fight man-made global warming. The ballot measure, called Initiative 1631, would tax carbon dioxide emissions from industrial sources at $15 per ton in 2020, which would increase every year to reduce emissions. Supporters say the measure could raise more than $1 billion in revenue. Opponents, however, point out a carbon tax would raise the price of virtually every good while having no impact on future global warming. The tax would cost households and extra $175 per year in 2020, according to some estimates. The battle of Initiative 1631 has become the most expensive in state history, so far drawing $45 million from both sides of the policy. Carbon tax opponents, led by the oil and gas industry, pumped $30 million into opposing the ballot measure, and proponents have spent $15 million. An October poll found 50 percent of Washington voters favored the carbon tax, while 36 percent opposed it. Colorado voters could end up banning hydraulic fracturing in most of the state. Polls show strong support for Proposition 112. The ballot measure, if enacted, would prohibit oil and gas drilling within 2,500 feet of any building or "vulnerable" area, including waterways and playgrounds. That's more than double the current state buffer for oil and gas operations.A September poll put support for Proposition 112 at 60 percent, but many prominent Democrats have come out against the measure. Democratic opponents include former Interior Secretary Ken Salazar and former Gov. Bill Ritter. Supporters say the ballot measure would protect public health, but opponents say it's a red herring meant as a de facto ban on fracking. The measure would ban oil and gas drilling on more than 80 percent of non-federal lands in the state, experts said. California voters seem poised to repeal a gas tax hike signed into law only seven months ago that added an extra 12 cents per gallon and up to a $175 license fee for vehicle registration.A University of California-Berkeley poll from October found nearly 58 percent of voters opposed the gas tax increase. The political battle heated up that month when gas tax opponents threatened to recall Attorney General Xavier Becerra, a Democrat, for allegedly trying to mislead voters about the proposal. Gas tax repeal proponents are also backing an initiative to halt spending on California's high-speed rail project and use any unspent funds to improve roads. Tom Steyer Is Behind Ballot Measures In Arizona and NevadaLiberal billionaire Tom Steyer's campaign group, NextGen Climate Action is backing ballot measures in Arizona and Nevada that would require both states to get 50 percent of their electricity from renewables, like wind and solar. Steyer pumped more than $20 million into the campaign, but opponents accused Steyer's group of using "forged" and "fake" signatures to get the green energy mandate on Arizona's ballot. Steyer's group has spent more than $10 million in support of Nevada's green ballot measure. Pinnacle West, the parent company of Arizona's largest utility, spent more than $30 million opposing the green energy mandate, according to Ballotpedia. Under current laws, Arizona is required to get 15 percent of its electricity from renewables, and Nevada utilities are required to get 25 percent of their power from green sources. Florida To Decide On Offshore Drilling … And Vaping?Florida's Amendment 9 ballot measure, if enacted, would ban offshore oil and gas drilling in state waters and ban e-cigarettes from being used in enclosed workplaces. The measure is backed by Democratic and environmental groups opposed to offshore drilling, and apparently vaping indoors. It's opposed by Republicans, the oil and gas industry and the Consumer Advocates for Smoke-Free Alternatives Association, a group that advocates for e-cigarettes. Opponents have attacked the ballot measure for its odd pairing of issues — smoking and offshore drilling. Many opponents of offshore drilling ended up opposing the measure because of its prohibition on vaping indoors." hile our editorial board opposes offshore drilling in state waters, we also are philosophically opposed to the Constitution Revision Commission's 'bundling' of these unrelated issues into a single amendment," the editorial board of Treasure Coast Newspapers wrote in October.	False
734	Shareblue	left_bias	2017-07-18	Gov.	Republicans cast the deciding votes, amid the endorsement of prominent California GOP politicians like former Gov.	The fight for the environment is a fight for the secure future of human civilization, and Trump cannot stop that fight.	He outraged the world by exiting the Paris climate agreement.	Pete Wilson.		California Democrats and Republicans unite to defy Trump with climate change bill Donald Trump has singlehandedly been working to set back U.S. climate policy 50 years. He outraged the world by exiting the Paris climate agreement. He fired scientists from government advisory positions. He signed a bill to let coal mines dump waste into streams. He is trying to undo the Clean Power Plan, fuel economy standards for cars, offshore drilling restrictions, and solar tax credits. But at the state level, politicians are fighting back, and nowhere more so than in California. On Monday, the California state legislature passed a sweeping deal to extend the state's current cap and trade program until 2030. The law requires businesses to buy credits based on their volume of greenhouse pollution. The passage of this bill is a rare bipartisan victory. Democrats control both chambers of the California legislature, but the bill required a supermajority. Republicans cast the deciding votes, amid the endorsement of prominent California GOP politicians like former Gov. Pete Wilson. California has been at the forefront of the climate change fight ever since Trump was elected. Gov. Jerry Brown made news in December for telling Trump that if he scuttles climate research satellites, "California will launch its own damn satellites." More recently, Brown helped found the United States Climate Alliance, a group of state and local governments pledging to abide by the Paris climate agreement even after the federal government withdraws. So far, 10 states, including two with Republican governors, have joined, as well as several major cities. Even if Trump is willing to turn his back on our allies and our future to roll back the clock on environmental protection, states like California are standing up and assuming the mantle of leadership. The fight for the environment is a fight for the secure future of human civilization, and Trump cannot stop that fight.	False
290	dailymail	questionable_source	2019-12-12	The businessman denounced the choice as a 'marketing gimmick' and said the prize should have honored 'Hong Kong Protesters, fighting for their lives and freedoms' - his father was also a finalist.	'Minutes after his tweet, Thunberg changed her Twitter profile biography to read: 'A teenager working on her anger management problem.	Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote: 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.	The activist has drawn increasingly large crowds with her appearances at protests and conferences over the past year and a half.	The young-activist attracted international attention after holding a sign that said 'skolstrejk för klimatet' or 'School strike for the climate' in Swedish parliament last year.		Donald Trump Jr. criticizes Time for naming eco-warrior Greta Thunberg as its person of the year President Donald Trump's eldest son Don Jr. has criticized Time magazine for naming Greta Person of the Year 2019 in a mocking tweet. The businessman denounced the choice as a 'marketing gimmick' and said the prize should have honored 'Hong Kong Protesters, fighting for their lives and freedoms' - his father was also a finalist. Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote: 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.'The 16-year-old Swedish face of climate-activism made headlines after shouting 'How dare you?' at world leaders at the U.N. General Assembly earlier this year, accusing them of failing the younger generation. An image of her stare at Donald Trump as he entered the UN quickly became a social media meme. Miss Thunberg was up against four other Time's finalists including anti-government Hong Kong protesters, U.S. house speaker Nancy Pelosi, the anonymous whistleblower who revealed Trump's phone call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in July that may lead to his impeachment, and in ironically also Donald Trump. The young-activist attracted international attention after holding a sign that said 'skolstrejk för klimatet' or 'School strike for the climate' in Swedish parliament last year. The activist has drawn increasingly large crowds with her appearances at protests and conferences over the past year and a half. Veteran campaigners and scientists have welcomed her activism, including her combative speeches challenging world leaders to do more to stop global warming. Time editor-in-chief Edward Felsenthal told the Today show: 'She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year, coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement.'He confirmed she is the magazine's youngest ever choice. Malala Yousafzai was runner up in 2012, losing out to Barack Obama, aged 15.U.S. president last month signed legislation backing the Hong Kong protesters in their fight for democracy - which could be the reason for his son's backing. The protests begun in March when an extradition bill, now suspended, called for those facing trials to be sent to mainland China, which was seen as a threat to the region's autonomy. Thunberg has not responded to the criticism but retweeted Time magazine's cover featuring herself. Today President Donald Trump lashed out at 16-year-old global warming activist Greta Thunberg on Thursday and told her to 'chill,' as he called her Time magazine 'Person of the Year' award 'ridiculous.''Greta must work on her Anger Management problem, then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend! Chill Greta, Chill!' Trump tweetedThe president was responding to Christian filmmaker Roma Downey, who tweeted the Time cover with the word 'Congrats.'Minutes after his tweet, Thunberg changed her Twitter profile biography to read: 'A teenager working on her anger management problem. Currently chilling and watching a good old fashioned movie with a friend.'Thunberg was in Madrid on Wednesday, where she addressed negotiators at the U.N.'s COP25 climate talks. There she accused political and business leaders of polishing their images rather than taking aggressive action in the fight against climate change at the UN climate talks. In a speech the teenager also criticized governments for avoiding taking action to cut greenhouse gas emissions and 'not behaving as if we are in an emergency'. Greta said: 'The biggest danger is not inaction; the real danger is when politicians and CEOs are making it look like real action is happening, when in fact almost nothing is being done apart from clever accounting and creative PR.'She said the science showed that, at the current rate of emissions, the world is set to use up the whole 'carbon budget' - the amount of pollution that can be put into the atmosphere and still keep global warming to 1.5C - in eight years.	False
601	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-04-23	Science is based on observation, Happer said, "[a]nd if you observe what's happening to, for example, the temperature, the temperature is not rising nearly as fast as the alarmist computer models predicted.	Some scientists maintain people like Nye are the ones cherry-picking data.	He told reporters that climate change is "tremendously exaggerated," adding that climate research is important, "but I think it's become sort of a cult movement in the last five years."	In fact, scientists now say "natural variability" is overwhelming their models.	He also suggested the 24-news channel should instead drown out people like Happer with 98 scientists who believe in man-made global warming."		Bill Nye Freaks Out After Scientist Schools Him On Climate Change Comedian Bill Nye accused CNN of doing a "disservice" to its viewers for inviting a well-respected physicist on Earth Day to argue about the legitimacy of man-made global warming. Nye, who is well known for hosting a children's TV show in the 1990s, scolded CNN's "New Day Saturday" panel Saturday for pitting his environmentalist pedigree against the climate skepticism of physicist William Happer. He also suggested the 24-news channel should instead drown out people like Happer with 98 scientists who believe in man-made global warming." nd I will say, much as I love the CNN, you're doing a disservice by having one climate change skeptic and not 97 or 98 scientists or engineers concerned about climate change," Nye said after the Princeton University academic suggested that it is a "myth" to believe that carbon dioxide is a pollutant causing widespread ecological destruction." arbon dioxide is a perfectly natural gas, it's just like water vapor, it's something that plants love. They grow better with more carbon dioxide, and you can see the greening of the earth already from the additional carbon dioxide in the atmosphere," he added. He went on to say that Nye's views on science are backward. Science is based on observation, Happer said, "[a]nd if you observe what's happening to, for example, the temperature, the temperature is not rising nearly as fast as the alarmist computer models predicted. It's much, much less — factors of two or three less." Happer, a science adviser to President Donald Trump, made public his skeptical views on climate change in January. He told reporters that climate change is "tremendously exaggerated," adding that climate research is important, "but I think it's become sort of a cult movement in the last five years." Nye, who has a degree in engineering but no professional science background, called Happer's position "completely wrong," and suggested the physicist was "cherry picking a certain model." Some scientists maintain people like Nye are the ones cherry-picking data. Climate models predicted Antarctic sea ice would shrink, and that climate change would boost snowfall in the southern hemisphere, yet neither of those predictions have panned out. In fact, scientists now say "natural variability" is overwhelming their models. Scientists with Columbia University's Earth Institute, for instance, found there's been almost no change in Antarctica's snowfall. They blamed strong "natural variability" for the models' failures. Scientists have also warned that Antarctica has been losing 147 gigatons of ice per year for years, mostly from melting on the northern Antarctic Peninsula. A NASA conducted in 2015, meanwhile, found Antarctica's ice sheet increased in mass from 1992 to 2008, which essentially offset ice melting in the western part of the Antarctic. Nye, for his part, has been one of the most belligerent apostle for the environmental movement. He's even suggested that throwing global warming skeptics in jail could be a potential solution, during an interview with the conservative Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	False
840	Daily Mail	questionable_source	2017-08-23	The study had been launched at the request of two West Virginia agencies, the state's Department of Environmental Protection and Bureau for Public Health.	'Stopping this study is a ploy to stop science in its tracks and keep the public in the dark about health risks as a favor to the mining industry, pure and simple,' said Democratic Representative Raúl Grijalva of Arizona, ranking member of the House Committee on Natural Resources, in a statement.	'It's infuriating that Trump would halt this study on the health effects of mountaintop removal coal mining, research that people in Appalachia have been demanding for years,' Bill Price, Senior Appalachia Organizing Representative for Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign, said in a statement.	Ordered by the Obama administration, the $1million, two-year study looked to investigate mountaintop removal in West Virginia, Kentucky, Virginia and Tennessee.	Interior Department halts study on Appalachia coal mining The Trump administration has halted a study looking at the health risks of mountaintop removal coal mining.		Interior Department halts study on Appalachia coal mining The Trump administration has halted a study looking at the health risks of mountaintop removal coal mining. In a letter written on Friday, the Interior Department announced the shutdown of the study, which was started in 2016 under former President Barack Obama, while the department undergoes an agency-wide budgetary review. Scientists estimate at least 500 Appalachian mountaintops have undergone mountaintop removal mining, a form of surface mining that harvests coal deposits too thin to work from a coal mine. The study had been launched at the request of two West Virginia agencies, the state's Department of Environmental Protection and Bureau for Public Health. Ordered by the Obama administration, the $1million, two-year study looked to investigate mountaintop removal in West Virginia, Kentucky, Virginia and Tennessee. An emphasis was placed on studying the 'effects from surface coal mining operations on air, surface water, groundwater, and drinking water quality and on ecologic communities and soil that could potentially lead to human health concerns.'This came after a 2010 study in Science magazine reported an increase in mortality rates as well as an increase in incidences of lung cancer and kidney disease near where mountaintop mining is common. Birth defects were also reported in a 2011 study published in Science Daily. Some suggest the move may be part of President Donald Trump's efforts to bring back coal. In February, he scrapped the Stream Protection Rule, a regulation to protect waterways from coal mining waste and promised to bring back coal mining jobs. Additionally, his proposed 2018 budget would cut funding for the Office of Surface Mining, which is responsible for protecting society and the environment from the adverse effects of surface coal mining operations. Critics have railed against the Interior Department for moves seen as halting scientific growth. Several science advisory boards were frozen earlier this year by Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke. And Interior Department climate scientist Joel Clement alleged that he and dozens of other scientists had been arbitrarily reassigned.'It's infuriating that Trump would halt this study on the health effects of mountaintop removal coal mining, research that people in Appalachia have been demanding for years,' Bill Price, Senior Appalachia Organizing Representative for Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign, said in a statement.'Stopping this study is a ploy to stop science in its tracks and keep the public in the dark about health risks as a favor to the mining industry, pure and simple,' said Democratic Representative Raúl Grijalva of Arizona, ranking member of the House Committee on Natural Resources, in a statement.	False
691	Daily Kos	left_bias	2017-10-01	It is hard to imagine a more important priority.	"Property," "economy," and "jobs" must serve "Earth First."	We must CONTROL land and resource value to discourage speculation, and eliminate or lessen the wide market swings due to nerves or manipulation.	Demand to be treated like adults.	DEATH BY PIN PRICKS, Water Lilies &amp; Boiling Water There must be a new approach to public policy development that makes "Earth First."	Environmental change is occurring so fast that small decisions made locally avalanche regionally (e.g. <sep> We must impose firm, honest value on land and resources and discourage speculative over-inflation – speculation is not bad per se, but it is one of the easiest activities to exaggerate and corrupt. <sep> Let us ask them. <sep> The Economic Growth discussion is always the same: "highest and best value" (a misnomer if ever there was one – profits trump survival - pun intended). <sep> ozone layer destruction). <sep> 	DEATH BY PIN PRICKS, Water Lilies &amp; Boiling Water There must be a new approach to public policy development that makes "Earth First." "Property," "economy," and "jobs" must serve "Earth First." The planning frame should be at least 100 years, possibly 1,000, NOT 25. Environmental change is occurring so fast that small decisions made locally avalanche regionally (e.g. downstream pollution), or even globally (e.g. ozone layer destruction). The Economic Growth discussion is always the same: "highest and best value" (a misnomer if ever there was one – profits trump survival - pun intended). Fat City is over, although many are still trying to milk it for the last bit of cream; we call these asshats "Vulture Capitalists," they feed off the dead and wounded). We must do more with less, and the rich must share or move out. We don't need more deadhead users and freeloaders. We must develop a mutually supportive community again. The business of government is the people's business; developers step to the rear. Legislators must renounce corporate campaign contributions as contrary to the public good. We must CONTROL land and resource value to discourage speculation, and eliminate or lessen the wide market swings due to nerves or manipulation. We must impose firm, honest value on land and resources and discourage speculative over-inflation – speculation is not bad per se, but it is one of the easiest activities to exaggerate and corrupt. We need a National Land Use Comprehensive Plan. Unlimited Growth is the ethos of a cancer cell, observes David Suzuki, noted biologist. Because one cannot personally conceive of an alternative to growth does not mean that one does not exist. Sustainability is NOT a myth – it is an under-represented, and too-often wrongfully rejected younger child; the one bearing truth to co-dependent addicted parents in deep denial over their multi-generational destruction of the natural environment. Three well-known parables apply:One more stick with the pin?  Deal with it later?  Turn up the heat?Earth's Life Support Systems Failing. The world has failed to slow the accelerating extinction crisis despite years of international effort. It is hard to imagine a more important priority. The biodiversity of life on Earth comprises the ecosystems that provide climate regulation, food,fiber, clean water and air. Like a Dooms Day asteroid, human over-population, pollution, logging, over-exploitation, consumption, land use changes and engineering projects have produced the planet's sixth great extinction of species. Freshwater Species that live in lakes and rivers are vanishing four to six times faster than anywhere else. "There is clear and growing scientific evidence that we are on the verge of a major freshwater biodiversity crisis." We are in a life-threatening situation and must make fundamental and absolute changes without delay. We cannot give "just a bit more" to Trump and his greedy followers. Spoiled children need discipline in order to live wholesome, productive lives. Developers, energy barons, other planet-killers and we, must settle for less and work together to plan and build a healthy sustainable community. We require teamwork to endure what is coming. We have no luxury to indulge selfish, ignorant behaviors. What are our politicians doing that makes any positive difference? Let us ask them. Demand Party Platforms that respond to reality, justice, science and full democracy. Demand to be treated like adults. How to Help, Where to find the ActionGet Corporations out of Government: movetoamend. orgBe Sure to VOTE, take a new registered progressive voter to the polls with you.	False
151	politicususa	left_bias	2019-08-29	Concern about climate has heightened in recent weeks amid fires in the Arctic and the Amazon rainforest and melting of ice in Greenland.	Democrats seeking their party's nomination in the 2020 U.S. presidential election will participate in a series of town halls on climate next week.	The plan will undergo a period of public comment before being finalized, and environmental groups pledged court action to try to block repeal of the limits.	The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions, a major factor in global warming.	"If EPA moves forward with this reckless and sinister proposal, we will see them in court."		Trump responds to G7 by proposing easing Obama-era methane limits at oil and gas operations WASHINGTON (Reuters) – The Trump administration on Thursday proposed easing Obama-era limits on oil and gas industry emissions of methane, one of the main pollutants scientists link to climate change. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) said easing the 2016 regulation that targeted methane would save energy companies up to $123 million through 2025. The plan will undergo a period of public comment before being finalized, and environmental groups pledged court action to try to block repeal of the limits. The proposal "removes unnecessary and duplicative regulatory burdens from the oil and gas industry," EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said in a release. The EPA said it will keep rules issued in 2012 that limit emissions known as volatile organic compounds that cause smog and also control some methane emissions. Some large energy companies including BP favor federal regulation of methane, saying the regulatory certainty is preferable to a patchwork of varying rules by states and legal challenges by environmentalists. BP has said it is already taking steps to limit methane emissions. The move is the Trump administration's latest easing of rules designed to curb greenhouse gas emissions, including many put forth by his predecessor, President Barack Obama. President Donald Trump, who insists he is an environmentalist, has also relaxed rules on carbon emissions from vehicles and intends to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris agreement on climate change. Concern about climate has heightened in recent weeks amid fires in the Arctic and the Amazon rainforest and melting of ice in Greenland. Democrats seeking their party's nomination in the 2020 U.S. presidential election will participate in a series of town halls on climate next week. In 2016, Obama's EPA issued the first rule limiting methane emissions from new oil and gas fracking operations including transport equipment. Thursday's proposal would repeal those regulations. The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions, a major factor in global warming. The gas has more than 80 times the heat-trapping potential of carbon dioxide in the first 20 years after it escapes into the atmosphere, scientists say. Susan Dio, chairman and president of BP America, supported federal regulation of methane in an opinion piece in the Houston Chronicle earlier this year calling it the "the best way to help further reduce and ultimately eliminate methane emissions industrywide." Environmentalists vowed to sue the administration over the proposal. "We simply cannot protect our children and grandchildren from climate catastrophe if EPA lets this industry off scot-free," said David Doniger, a climate and clean energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council. "If EPA moves forward with this reckless and sinister proposal, we will see them in court."	False
468	vox	left_bias	2018-07-05	As a New York Times story lays out, Murray was the architect of a so-called environmental regulations wish list, which detailed a list of policies aimed at reinvigorating the coal industry — like curbing restrictions on greenhouse gases and slashing staff at the EPA.	As the New York Times points out, however, there is one crucial way that Wheeler differs from his departing boss.	Here are three key facts to know about the person who will soon be overseeing the Environmental Protection Agency.	Inhofe was among Pruitt's biggest fans, although the barrage of scandals ultimately began to dim his enthusiasm.	)Pruitt's goals as EPA administrator have centered on crafting (or destroying) policy in order to establish a friendlier regime for the fossil fuel industry.		A brief guide to Andrew Wheeler, Scott Pruitt's replacement at the EPA Following the pile-up of months and months of scandals, EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt is finally out — which means a significantly less notorious successor is now in. Introduced to the world via a tweet from President Donald Trump, EPA Deputy Administrator Andrew Wheeler is set to take over the position in an acting capacity. Wheeler, who was confirmed for the EPA deputy role in April, appears to be cut from much of the same cloth as his former boss when it comes to rolling back environmental regulations. Here are three key facts to know about the person who will soon be overseeing the Environmental Protection Agency. Wheeler, age 55, is a former lobbyist who represented Murray Energy, a massive mining company, as one of his chief clients. Murray Energy was among the companies Wheeler listed on his financial disclosures while he was being considered for the deputy administrator position. Others included Xcel Energy and General Mills. Murray Energy CEO Robert Murray is also a well-known Trump adviser and supporter, who Wheeler worked with closely. As a New York Times story lays out, Murray was the architect of a so-called environmental regulations wish list, which detailed a list of policies aimed at reinvigorating the coal industry — like curbing restrictions on greenhouse gases and slashing staff at the EPA. Wheeler and Murray were photographed at a March 2017 meeting with Energy Secretary Rick Perry, where many of these policies were purportedly discussed. All this suggests that Wheeler won't be particularly aggressive toward the coal industry while in office. "Andrew Wheeler's coal credentials are without equal," Sen. Edward Markey has said, according to CBS News. "He is, without question, a member of the coal industry's Hall of Fame." Wheeler was also a longtime staffer for Sen. Jim Inhofe, serving as chief counsel for the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee while the lawmaker was chair, according to Inside Climate News. All told, Wheeler spent 14 years working with Inhofe on the Hill. Inhofe was among Pruitt's biggest fans, although the barrage of scandals ultimately began to dim his enthusiasm. Inhofe is known for denying that climate change is affected by human activity, once throwing a snowball onto the Senate floor to counter arguments about climate change and prove that it was "very, very cold" outside. (His former staffers have become nicknamed by some as the "Inhofe mafia.")During Wheeler's testimony in a congressional hearing last fall, he dodged a question about climate change: "I believe that man has an impact on the climate, but it's not completely understood what that impact is," he said, according to Inside Climate News. As the New York Times points out, however, there is one crucial way that Wheeler differs from his departing boss. Pruitt was Oklahoma's attorney general before being named to Trump's Cabinet, and an outsider who recklessly took advantage of the privileges he obtained. Wheeler is seen as a seasoned political operative who knows how to carefully traverse the system. (He was also at the EPA as a special assistant in the agency's Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics for four years before he worked for Inhofe.)Pruitt's goals as EPA administrator have centered on crafting (or destroying) policy in order to establish a friendlier regime for the fossil fuel industry. His efforts have included revising emissions standards for cars and trucks, increasing his control over the implementation of the Clean Water Act and weakening standards on hazardous chemicals. It appears that Wheeler is on track to do more of the same — and his insider instincts and methodical nature could mean even more effective rollbacks. (A number of Pruitt policies are thought to be shoddily constructed and have faced significant legal challenges.)As Trump said himself, "I have no doubt that Andy will continue on with our great and lasting EPA agenda."	False
820	RT	questionable_source	2017-07-04	Two judges concluded, "the administration record thus makes clear that industry groups had ample opportunity to comment on all four issues on which EPA granted reconsideration, and indeed, that in several instances the agency incorporated those comments directly into the final rule."	There will be a separate administration public hearing on the same extension next Monday, according to the Washington Post."	he court's ruling is yet another reminder, now in the context of environmental protection, that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the president's desire to order immediate change," Richard Lazarus, environmental-law professor at Harvard Law School, said in an email as reported by the Post.	Former President Barack Obama had put in place a rule in 2016 that was connected to a regulatory strategy which sought to reduce methane emissions.	Pruitt has also begun to move on suspending or revoking many other measures which were implemented during the Obama years.		Federal appeals court blocks Trump's attempt to roll back Obama-era methane rules The Environmental Protection Agency's 90-day suspension of new emission standards on oil and gas wells has been struck down by a US appeals court. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has long sought a repeal of the Obama-era rules.A three-judge panel of the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled 2-1 that the EPA would be allowed to reconsider a 2016 ruling that limited methane and smog-forming pollutants emitted by oil and gas wells, but could not delay the date it begins. Two judges concluded, "the administration record thus makes clear that industry groups had ample opportunity to comment on all four issues on which EPA granted reconsideration, and indeed, that in several instances the agency incorporated those comments directly into the final rule." READ MORE: Mining in Alaska may return as EPA scraps Obama-era regulationsPruitt, the new head of the EPA, had been looking to extend a suspension on these activities for two years. There will be a separate administration public hearing on the same extension next Monday, according to the Washington Post." he court's ruling is yet another reminder, now in the context of environmental protection, that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the president's desire to order immediate change," Richard Lazarus, environmental-law professor at Harvard Law School, said in an email as reported by the Post. Lazarus continued, "the DC Circuit's ruling today makes clear that neither the president nor his EPA administrator, Scott Pruitt, can by fiat unilaterally and instantaneously repeal or otherwise stay the effectiveness of the environmental protection rules put into place during the Obama administration." Former President Barack Obama had put in place a rule in 2016 that was connected to a regulatory strategy which sought to reduce methane emissions. At the time, Pruitt was the Attorney General of Oklahoma and he and others sued the EPA to overturn the legislation. Pruitt has also begun to move on suspending or revoking many other measures which were implemented during the Obama years. This includes a two-year delay on a certain regulations aimed at minimizing chemical accidents.	False
448	politicususa	left_bias	2018-11-03	his is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights," Olson said in court papers.	Circuit Court of Appeals.	his suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process, by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions," Trump administration Solicitor General Noel Francisco said in court papers.	In the lawsuit, 21 activists, ages 11 to 22, said federal officials violated their rights to due process under the U.S. Constitution by failing to adequately address carbon pollution such as emissions from the burning of fossil fuels.	Francisco noted that the plaintiffs are seeking to hold the U.S. government liable for the cumulative effects of carbon dioxide emissions "from every source in the world over decades."		Supreme Court rejects Trump administration bid to halt climate trial WASHINGTON (Reuters) – The U.S. Supreme Court on Friday rejected for now a bid by the President Donald Trump's administration to block a trial in a lawsuit filed by young activists who have accused the U.S. government of ignoring the perils of climate change. The loss for the administration means it now faces a high-profile examination of U.S. climate change policy during the trial that was due to begin on Oct. 29 in Eugene, Oregon but has since been postponed by the judge. Chief Justice John Roberts on Oct. 19 had temporarily put the case on hold while the court as a whole decided how to proceed. The Supreme Court's three-page order noted that the administration may still have grounds to take its arguments to the San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Conservative Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch indicated they would have granted the administration's request. There was no indication how Trump's new Supreme Court appointee, conservative Brett Kavanaugh, voted on the issue. In the lawsuit, 21 activists, ages 11 to 22, said federal officials violated their rights to due process under the U.S. Constitution by failing to adequately address carbon pollution such as emissions from the burning of fossil fuels. The lawsuit was filed in 2015 against former President Barack Obama and government agencies in a federal court in Eugene, Oregon. Both the Obama and Trump administrations have failed in efforts to have the lawsuit thrown out. The administration has said a courtroom is not the appropriate venue for a debate on climate change policy." his suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process, by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions," Trump administration Solicitor General Noel Francisco said in court papers. Francisco noted that the plaintiffs are seeking to hold the U.S. government liable for the cumulative effects of carbon dioxide emissions "from every source in the world over decades." Lawyers for the young activists, led by Julia Olson of a Eugene-based group called Our Children's Trust that brought the lawsuit, have said their clients have suffered "irreparable harm" from the effects of a changing climate." his is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights," Olson said in court papers. On July 30, the high court rejected an earlier application by the Trump administration, calling it premature. Eugene, Oregon-based federal Judge Ann Aiken has repeatedly allowed the case to move forward to trial over the objections of the government. The trial will proceed if neither the high court nor the 9th Circuit intervene. Aiken said in an Oct. 15 ruling that although the case raised questions about the role of the judiciary delving into a matter of policy those concerns were not enough to warrant a dismissal of the entire case.	False
102	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-09-10	The Bureau of Land Management would benefit from more community outreach and long-term planning to lease parcels on sensitive landscapes, said Erika Pollard, an associate director with the National Parks Conservation Association.	Business owners in Bluff said the dark skies drive tourism to Hovenweep, and feared industrial light pollution, as well as the sounds and smells of energy development, could drive visitors away.	"Hovenweep is in all of our stories, and to threaten the integrity of these structures jeopardizes everything we've carried forward as resilient people."	But the new "energy-dominated era" she said we're in has made public input on these processes harder.	The agency says in planning documents that companies should take steps to protect the environmental and cultural landscape of the area, including limiting the use of artificial light at drilling sites and protecting useable groundwater aquifers from drilling.		Oil Drilling Plan Near Sacred Utah Monument Draws Tribal Opposition Included in the Bureau of Land Management's September oil and gas lease sale is about 47 square miles (122 square kilometers) of land north of Hovenweep National Monument, a group of prehistoric villages overlooking a canyon with connections to several indigenous tribes throughout the U.S. Southwest. The parcels for lease are about five to 20 miles (eight to 32 kilometers) north of the monument. The sale comes amid an ongoing debate over drilling in states like Colorado, Arizona and New Mexico, where a coalition of tribes are calling for a halt on energy development near land that Native Americans consider sacred. The Trump administration has pushed to open vast expanses of public lands to oil and gas drilling, speed up the construction of petroleum pipelines and ease federal environmental regulations, dismissing calls from scientists in and out of government that immediate cuts in oil, gas and coal emissions are required to stave off the worst of climate change." hen this oil and gas leasing happens on or near sacred lands, it risks de-stabilizing the bedrock (of the structures)," said Ahjani Yepa, a member of Utah Diné Bikéyah, a Navajo grass-roots organization. "Hovenweep is in all of our stories, and to threaten the integrity of these structures jeopardizes everything we've carried forward as resilient people." Hovenweep was designated as an International Dark Sky Park in 2014 by the International Dark-Sky Association, recognized for its striking night skies and star-gazing opportunities. Southeast Utah is known for its sweeping desert landscapes and expansive night skies. The state has 11 internationally recognized "Dark Sky Parks," the most of any state. Business owners in Bluff said the dark skies drive tourism to Hovenweep, and feared industrial light pollution, as well as the sounds and smells of energy development, could drive visitors away. As of Monday afternoon, Finch said there were no results to share and the sale would continue until at least Tuesday. The agency says in planning documents that companies should take steps to protect the environmental and cultural landscape of the area, including limiting the use of artificial light at drilling sites and protecting useable groundwater aquifers from drilling. Companies must obtain permits and go through environmental reviews before they begin construction or drilling. Some leases go years before drilling or expire before any activity occurs. Still, environmentalists and Native Americans invested in the land said such documents fail to address a larger trend of leasing increasingly more land on or near sensitive tribal landscapes. Parcels near Hovenweep were offered, then deferred, in a March BLM lease sale, and new documents for an upcoming December lease sale show more land will be up for grabs." t least we have our little foot in the door, but that's as far as we've gotten," she said. "They argue these lands are abandoned, but they're not, we use them in our prayers, we visit them. You wouldn't like it if I went into your home, your land, and started digging." The Bureau of Land Management would benefit from more community outreach and long-term planning to lease parcels on sensitive landscapes, said Erika Pollard, an associate director with the National Parks Conservation Association. But the new "energy-dominated era" she said we're in has made public input on these processes harder.	False
687	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-10-23	I see that some of the anthropogenic global warming rhetoric has been picked up by people who are really excited about trying to experiment with those types of systems in the West as a solution to those problems," Wanliss said.	That year, the National Association of Evangelicals proposed adopting a new platform called "For the Health of a Nation."	On one side of that debate is a theological argument that's gained prominence in some corners of evangelical Christianity over the past decade.	But it appears that Obama and his liberal administration are not really interested in what the Constitution or the scientific community have to say when it interferes with their radical agenda."	This is a demographic Moore, who attends the Gallant First Baptist Church near his home, seems likely to tap.		Roy Moore Is An Outspoken Fundamentalist About Everything But Climate Change He's written poems lamenting legal abortion. He wants to make gay sex illegal and overturn marriage equality. The former judge says he places "God's law" above the Constitution, describes Islam as a "false religion" and has repeatedly defied federal orders to remove religious ornaments from his courtroom. He doesn't believe in evolution, compares preschool to Nazi-style indoctrination and once said the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks were divine punishment for the United States' godlessness. His campaign site calls for energy independence and stakes out the vague position: "Coal mining and oil drilling should be encouraged, subject only to reasonable regulations." In July, he was the only candidate to refuse to answer questions about climate change for a Montgomery Advertiser story. Katie Frost, his spokeswoman, did not respond to multiple requests for comment." ot only do scientists disagree on 'global warming,' but there is little hard evidence that carbon emissions cause changes to the global climate. But it appears that Obama and his liberal administration are not really interested in what the Constitution or the scientific community have to say when it interferes with their radical agenda." In fact, 97 percent of peer-reviewed scientists have found that climate change is a serious threat and is at least exacerbated by humans. And there are serious flaws in the studies published by the 3 percent of scientists whose research suggests otherwise. A research review published last November found errors in the methodologies, assumptions or analyses used by in those studies that, when fixed, put the findings in line with mainstream climate scientists. That consensus is so strong that in 2005 one of the standard-bearers of the evangelical Christian politics in which Moore enshrouds himself planned to take a stance affirming the science. That year, the National Association of Evangelicals proposed adopting a new platform called "For the Health of a Nation." The position paper called for protecting God's creation and embracing the government's help in doing so. But after receiving unanimous support by the board, the 30-million-member organization voted down the proposal, kickstarting a campaign by fossil fuel interests to transform the doubt over global warming into what Splinter, in a lengthy report published in August, succinctly described as "the word of God." White evangelical Christians, more than 80 percent of whom supported Trump in last November's election, are the least likely of any U.S. religious group to believe climate change is occurring, according to 2015 data from the Pew Research Center. Just 28 percent of white evangelicals believe the planet is warming primarily due to human activity, compared with 56 percent of black Protestants and 41 percent of white mainline Protestants who say the opposite. Roughly 37 percent of white evangelicals don't believe the climate is changing at all. This is a demographic Moore, who attends the Gallant First Baptist Church near his home, seems likely to tap. Alabama has the highest percentage of Baptists after Tennessee, with 31 percent of residents in the state, according to Pew's 2014 Religious Landscape study. In December, The Baptist Press, the official media arm of the Southern Baptist Convention, published an open letter of support for Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt's nomination amid fierce backlash over the former Oklahoma attorney general's rejection of the scientific consensus on climate change. On one side of that debate is a theological argument that's gained prominence in some corners of evangelical Christianity over the past decade. According to that interpretation, God provided fossil fuels for humans to exploit, and Christian environmentalists who believed in shifting to renewable energy were deceived by the "false doctrine" of the so-called "Green Dragon," a demonic force that fooled people into putting the needs of the planet ahead of those of the poor." s a Christian, I have a responsibility to try my best to be as wealthy as possible," James Wanliss, an associate professor of physics at Presbyterian College in South Carolina and the author of The Green Dragon: Is Global Warming a Religion?, told HuffPost. "If you're grindingly poor, you're just going to care about your next meal, and too bad if trees get in your way." I see that some of the anthropogenic global warming rhetoric has been picked up by people who are really excited about trying to experiment with those types of systems in the West as a solution to those problems," Wanliss said. "As a Christian, that's a problem to me, because, well, aside from the philosophy behind those systems, it's just, again, empirically been disastrous." Roy Moore, he's part of that culture," Michael Hansen, executive director of the Birmingham-based environmental group Gasp and a former candidate in the Democratic primary for Senate, told HuffPost. "Something that I hear quite a bit from the right wing in Alabama is that God gave us fossil fuels for a reason. I wouldn't be surprised if Roy Moore said that at some point during his campaign." Alabama emerged in June from more than a year of "the worst drought in memory," affecting 98 percent of the state. The state braced twice in the past month for damage from the devastating series of hurricanes that struck neighboring states, but it was spared the destruction after the winds weakened. Yet nearly 37 percent of Alabamians don't believe global warming is happening, 7 percentage points below the national average, according to survey data from the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication.	False
688	CNN	left_bias	2017-09-30	"Regardless of why you're doing it, what you're doing would be the same whatever motivates you.	We could tie this to climate change, or we could tie it to saving taxpayer money."	While Sullivan acknowledged that there's been an intentional shift of language at the department, especially as the topic of climate change continues to be discussed -- or avoided -- hand-in-hand with storm preparedness, he argues that at the end of the day, the administration has the same goals for rebuilding communities.	The aim of the competition was to award grants to communities hit by natural disasters to fund rebuilding them to better weather future events worsened by climate change.	"The last administration made that very direct connection between the use of that word and words like sustainability with climate change and, while there may be a reluctance to do that now, I don't think that means folks are any less committed to making sure the next storm is less costly," Sullivan said.	Instead, they both said the focus should be on resiliency." <sep> "The idea is when dollars are spent to rebuild, you don't just want to rebuild the same old way, you want to rebuild in a way that is smarter and makes it less likely that they will be effected the same way in the future storms -- that's resiliency," former HUD Secretary Julian Castro, who awarded the grant at the time, told CNN. <sep> 	Trump administration swaps 'climate change' for 'resilience' The word choices by administration officials -- and the extent to which they're going to avoid referencing global warming altogether -- are notable in the aftermath of recent severe hurricanes and in the face of questions about what could have caused them. In the wake of Hurricane Irma, both Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of hurricanes. Instead, they both said the focus should be on resiliency." Regardless of what causes disasters, it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences," Long told CNN. "The only way we become resilient as a nation is we have to create that true culture of preparedness among our citizenry, which we do not have, and then we also have to look how we move forward when it comes to infrastructure protection." Duke echoed Long's thoughts on the need for "resilience." "We live in a changing world, and as the FEMA administrator said, we always have to look at not just the response, but the preparedness and the resilience," Duke said. "And I think it's important that as we come together as a country, we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response, that we are adapting properly." Trump dismisses climate change question by contradicting himself on hurricanes Other departments are also adopting the language replacement, in some cases making unannounced changes and replacements to their websites and names of programs. In February, shortly after President Donald Trump took office, the​ ​Department​ of​ ​Transportation and Federal​ ​Highway​ ​Administration​ ​changed language​ ​across​ its website​ ​relating​ ​to​ ​the environmental​ ​effects​ ​of transportation. The changes swapped words like "adaptation" with resilience and also renamed the "Sustainable Transport and Climate Change Team" to "The Sustainable Transportation and Resilience Team," according to a Environmental​ ​Data​ ​and​ ​Governance​ ​Initiative Website​ ​Tracking​ ​ report That same month, the Environmental Protection Agency removed all mention of climate change from its water utilities programs. The "Climate Ready Water Utilities" program was renamed to "Creating Resilient Water Utilities." Other references to climate change were also scrubbed from the website, Inside Climate News first reported. Over at the USDA, an internal memo obtained by CNN that was shared in the first days of the administration to staffers gave specific guidance to ditch the term "climate change adaptation" and instead opt for "resilience to weather extremes." The terms resilience and resiliency rose to popularity in the US government during former President Barack Obama's administration, used specifically to denote preparing something to ward off the future effects of climate change. For example, following Superstorm Sandy, the Department of Housing and Urban Development established a first-of-its-kind competition called the National Disaster Resilience Competition. The aim of the competition was to award grants to communities hit by natural disasters to fund rebuilding them to better weather future events worsened by climate change. "The idea is when dollars are spent to rebuild, you don't just want to rebuild the same old way, you want to rebuild in a way that is smarter and makes it less likely that they will be effected the same way in the future storms -- that's resiliency," former HUD Secretary Julian Castro, who awarded the grant at the time, told CNN. "There's no question that climate change is at least a contributing factor to some of the intensity of these natural disasters. ... The administration ought to take that into consideration and not try to decouple those two," Castro said. "The verbal judo they are trying to do doesn't serve local communities at all." But administration officials counter that resiliency can have a dual meaning -- even one that means essentially the same thing, but without the overt climate change undertones. "Resilience came into our nomenclature in our last administration but that doesn't mean that it's a verboten word any longer," said Brian Sullivan, a HUD spokesman. "The last administration made that very direct connection between the use of that word and words like sustainability with climate change and, while there may be a reluctance to do that now, I don't think that means folks are any less committed to making sure the next storm is less costly," Sullivan said. While Sullivan acknowledged that there's been an intentional shift of language at the department, especially as the topic of climate change continues to be discussed -- or avoided -- hand-in-hand with storm preparedness, he argues that at the end of the day, the administration has the same goals for rebuilding communities. "I don't know if there's an operating definition of what resilience means," he said. "Regardless of why you're doing it, what you're doing would be the same whatever motivates you. Whether you believe in climate change or you don't, you are embarking on some future activity. We could tie this to climate change, or we could tie it to saving taxpayer money."	False
39	thepoliticalinsider	right_bias	2019-04-04	But he doesn't care, because, in his mind, it's real.	The mechanism Robert Francis is referring to is a democracy.	"The scientists are unanimous on this.	How else to explain last months comments that environmental activists are just like "those who were on the beaches in Normandy."	How does a man who, under normal circumstances would be working as a barista in the local coffee shop, dole out knowledge of experience on World War II to a Democrat party who eagerly laps it up?How did the resistance get to this point?		Beto Compares Green New Deal to Defeating Nazis, Overcoming Great Depression At a town hall event in Ames, Iowa Wednesday, Democrat candidate for president Beto O'Rourke, compared the Green New Deal to defeating the Nazis and surviving the Great Depression. Why is it that Democrats, clearly lacking in any context of what World War II and living in the greatest generation were like, enjoy comparing these things to mundane policy initiatives?Addressing the Green New Deal, O'Rourke summoned his followers to harness the "the most ingenious mechanism yet devised by humankind" to "free ourselves from a dependence on fossil fuels." The mechanism Robert Francis is referring to is a democracy. Meanwhile, what comes out of Beto's mouth next is not, in fact, ingenious." t's exactly what we did to face the Nazi threat, the existential threat to Western democracies in 1941," he said. "Exactly what we did to lift millions out of the Great Depression and build the largest middle class the world had yet seen." And is exactly what we need to do now to free ourselves from a dependence on fossil fuels, greenhouse gas emissions, invest in the jobs and technologies of renewable energy that will allow us to meet our obligation and allow this country once again to claim its status as the indispensable nation." It's hard not to look at this hyperactive Gen X-er and think this is exactly what the far left has become – a group that has rarely experienced hardship in their lifetime because of the greatest generation, comparing everything they find upsetting to the greatest generation. Beto likes his World War II comparisons so much that he mentions it time and again when discussing the threat of global warming. Sure, every time he mentions it O'Rourke is mocked relentlessly by those outside of his little campaign crowds. But he doesn't care, because, in his mind, it's real. How else to explain last months comments that environmental activists are just like "those who were on the beaches in Normandy." When you think about leadership, those who preceded us — those who were on the beaches in Normandy, those who faced an existential threat to Western democracy and our way of life, they showed us the way," he said referencing a plan to fight climate change." his is the final chance," he added, echoing Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez' warning that the world will end due to climate change. "The scientists are unanimous on this. We have no more than 12 years to take incredibly bold action on this crisis." Every time I watch this guy speak, I think of the UPS Guy from Mad TV. How does a man who, under normal circumstances would be working as a barista in the local coffee shop, dole out knowledge of experience on World War II to a Democrat party who eagerly laps it up?How did the resistance get to this point? It's embarrassing.	True
472	cnn	left_bias	2018-11-23	The global average temperature is much higher and is rising more rapidly than anything modern civilization has experienced, and this warming trend can only be explained by human activities," Easterling said.	In Houston, communities of color have endured back to back major weather events without the acknowledgment from Washington that climate change is the cause.	Reactions to the new report have been strong across the scientific community."	We've known for years that it's true and it's important to our organizing and our local policy efforts that information like this is not only considered, but believed and acted upon."	Along the US coasts, public infrastructure and $1 trillion in national wealth held in real estate are threatened by rising sea levels, flooding and storm surges.		Climate change brings dire consequences to the US, federal report concludes (CNN) A new US government report delivers a dire warning about climate change and its devastating impacts, saying the economy could lose hundreds of billions of dollars -- or, in the worst-case scenario, more than 10% of its GDP -- by the end of the century. The federally mandated study was supposed to come out in December but was released by the Trump administration on Friday, at a time when many Americans are on a long holiday weekend, distracted by family and shopping." The global average temperature is much higher and is rising more rapidly than anything modern civilization has experienced, and this warming trend can only be explained by human activities," Easterling said. Coming from the US Global Change Research Program , a team of 13 federal agencies, the Fourth National Climate Assessment was put together with the help of 1,000 people, including 300 leading scientists, roughly half from outside the government. Without significant reductions in greenhouse emissions, the annual average global temperature could increase 9 degrees Fahrenheit (5 Celsius) or more by the end of this century, compared with preindustrial temperatures, the report says. The costs of climate change could reach hundreds of billions of dollars annually, according to the report. The Southeast alone will probably lose over a half a billion labor hours by 2100 due to extreme heat. Farmers will face extremely tough times. The quality and quantity of their crops will decline across the country due to higher temperatures, drought and flooding. In parts of the Midwest, farms will be able to produce less than 75% of the corn they produce today, and the southern part of the region could lose more than 25% of its soybean yield. Heat stress could cause average dairy production to fall between 0.60% and 1.35% over the next 12 years -- having already cost the industry $1.2 billion from heat stress in 2010. Wildfire seasons -- already longer and more destructive than before -- could burn up to six times more forest area annually by 2050 in parts of the United States. Burned areas in Southwestern California alone could double by 2050. Dependable and safe water for the Hawaii, the Caribbean and others are threatened by these rising temperatures. Along the US coasts, public infrastructure and $1 trillion in national wealth held in real estate are threatened by rising sea levels, flooding and storm surges. Energy systems will be taxed, meaning more blackouts and power failures, and the potential loss in some sectors could reach hundreds of billions of dollars per year by the end of the century, the report said. The number of days over 100 degrees Fahrenheit will multiply; Chicago, where these days are rare, could start to resemble Phoenix or Las Vegas, with up to two months worth of these scorching-hot days. Sea levels have already gone up 7 to 8 inches since 1900. Almost half that rise has been since 1993, a rate of rise greater than during any century in the past 2,800 years. Some countries are already seeing land underwater. By midcentury, it's likely that the Arctic will lose all sea ice in late summer, and that could lead to more permafrost thaw, according to the report. As the permafrost thaws, more carbon dioxide and methane would be released, amplifying human-induced warming, "possibly significantly." What can be doneThe report was created to inform policy-makers and makes no specific recommendations on how to remedy the problem. However, it suggests that if the United States immediately reduced its fossil fuel use and greenhouse gas emissions, it could save thousands of lives and generate billions of dollars in benefits for the country. Reactions to the new report have been strong across the scientific community." In Houston, communities of color have endured back to back major weather events without the acknowledgment from Washington that climate change is the cause. We've known for years that it's true and it's important to our organizing and our local policy efforts that information like this is not only considered, but believed and acted upon." Scientists who have been raising the alarm about the negative consequences of climate change for years welcomed the findings.	False
642	RedState	right_bias	2017-10-09	)The purpose of this rule was breathtaking.	Circuit decides on the merits of the GOP-industry lawsuit against it.	Did you ever stop to wonder what they know that the current belly-achers don't?	In a fact sheet released accompanying the speech, Trump's campaign said he would scale back the latest regulations on ozone pollution and eliminate the EPA's Renewable Identification Number program, which is part of the Renewable Fuel Standard program.	The sum total of this is to take this issue out of the courts and then give the environmental nazis a new chew toy to play with for several years.		Scott Pruitt Gets Ready to Pull the Plug on Obama's Job-Killing Clean Power Plan Back in October 2015, Barack Obama's EPA finalized a 460-page rule titled "Carbon Pollution Emission Guidelines for Existing Stationary Sources: Electric Utility Generating Units," aka the Clean Power Plan. This was a part of Obama's "pen and phone" way of ruling the country. (As an aside, did you ever see anyone on the left bitch about Obama using the power of the presidency to make policy and weigh in on political and cultural issues the way some on the right bitch about Trump doing it? Did you ever stop to wonder what they know that the current belly-achers don't?)The purpose of this rule was breathtaking. Using the anthropogenic global warming scaremongering and specious public health predictions, the Clean Power Plan essentially put the US coal industry out of business. Since that time the rule has been mired in court challenges and it produced the first instance in history where the Supreme Court presumed a rule was unreasonable before a lower court ruled on the issue:"The Supreme Court dealt a blow to President Obama's signature climate change initiative Tuesday by halting the administration's effort to reduce pollution from coal-fired power plants while a legal battle rages on. The move by the court's five conservative members was a shock to environmentalists, who had hoped the justices would deny — as a federal appeals court did last month — a petition filed by 29 mostly Republican-led states and industry leaders. Now the Environmental Protection Agency must halt enforcement of the so-called "Clean Power Plan" until the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit decides on the merits of the GOP-industry lawsuit against it. Oral arguments are set for early June. Even if the plan is upheld at the lower court, it could not be implemented until the Supreme Court has had the final word. That likely would push the battle into 2017 or beyond. In September 2016, then-candidate Donald Trump gave an economic policy speech in which he specifically targeted the Clean Power Plan:Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump said he would repeal four key Environmental Protection Agency regulations as president, leading one environmental group to call his plans a "dumpster fire." During an economic policy speech in New York, Trump said he would eliminate the Clean Power Plan and the Waters of the United States rule. In a fact sheet released accompanying the speech, Trump's campaign said he would scale back the latest regulations on ozone pollution and eliminate the EPA's Renewable Identification Number program, which is part of the Renewable Fuel Standard program. Trump said the regulations harm U.S. businesses and getting rid of them would help kick-start the economy. "This Obama-Clinton directive will shut down most, if not all, coal-powered electricity plans in America," Trump said of the Clean Power Plan. " They're shutting down all over the country. Remember what Hillary Clinton said? She wants to shut down the miners, just like she wants to shut down the steel mills and steel workers." In late March, President Trump signed an executive order directing the EPA to review the Clean Power Plan:Now it is reported that tomorrow the EPA will being the process of withdrawing the Clean Power Plan. What the EPA is doing is proposing a rule to rescind the existing rule and then it will undertake another administrative rule making process to ask for public input on what a new rule should contain, and finally a new rule will be drafted. I'm sure Scott Pruitt would prefer to scrap this whole thing, unfortunately, the US Supreme Court 2007 decision, Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency, says that EPA regulation of carbon dioxide is actually required by the Clean Air Act and so non-regulation is legally off the table unless Congress acts (that was a joke). The sum total of this is to take this issue out of the courts and then give the environmental nazis a new chew toy to play with for several years. In the meantime, hopefully Congress will act (again that was a joke) to limit the reach of the Clean Air Act and the ability of activists to use that law to wreak havoc on our economy and communities.	False
126	motherjones	left_bias	2019-07-29	Ali points out an equity score is potentially significant, because it helps "put up a wall of protections around those communities," adding, "I think it's just now starting to gather steam."	People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices."	The proposal also requires an extra level of scrutiny for White House executive actions on low-income communities and people of color and feedback from those affected communities.	The proposal, called the Climate Equity Act, is not a comprehensive plan for addressing the climate crisis or cutting pollution, but it focuses on addressing equity and environmental racism, echoing the broader themes of Harris' campaign.	It does begin to answer one of the key questions around the Green New Deal debate, which is how to include low-income and communities of color—the frontline voices facing the most dire effects of climate change—in the legislative process."		Kamala Harris and AOC Just Injected Environmental Justice Into the 2020 Race Sen. Kamala Harris was the first candidate to mention the Green New Deal in the first presidential debate, when she corrected NBC moderator Chuck Todd. "I don't even call it climate change," she said. "It's a climate crisis…That is why I support a Green New Deal." And yet, of the top four presidential candidates, Harris has the thinnest legislative record when it comes to climate change; her 2019 bill to electrify school bus fleets has taken only a slice at the problem. On Monday, the day before the second round of debates among the 20 Democratic presidential hopefuls, she released the first major climate proposal of her campaign, partnering with the original author of the Green New Deal resolution, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. The proposal, called the Climate Equity Act, is not a comprehensive plan for addressing the climate crisis or cutting pollution, but it focuses on addressing equity and environmental racism, echoing the broader themes of Harris' campaign. It does begin to answer one of the key questions around the Green New Deal debate, which is how to include low-income and communities of color—the frontline voices facing the most dire effects of climate change—in the legislative process." rom the toxic air embattling Cancer Alley in Louisiana and Asthma Alley in the Bronx to the unsafe drinking water in California's San Joaquin Valley and Flint, Michigan," Harris said, "the nation's bedrock environmental protections have not stopped frontline communities from continually falling through the cracks." The proposal requires that any environmental legislation receive an equity score to assess its impact on frontline communities, much in the same way the Congressional Budget Office scores the economic costs and impacts of bills. The proposal also requires an extra level of scrutiny for White House executive actions on low-income communities and people of color and feedback from those affected communities. A new Climate and Environmental Justice office would coordinate all the impact assessment efforts." e cannot accept a status quo where children of color are drinking toxic water in Flint or breathing toxic air in Louisiana's Cancer Alley," Harris said in a statement. "This systemic environmental injustice will only get worse and become more ingrained if climate and environmental policies like the Green New Deal do not specifically focus on lifting up these communities." Mustafa Ali, the former head of the EPA environmental justice office, noted that the idea of scoring environmental justice impacts is something advocates have pushed for years. "When you look at where most of the fossil fuel facilities are located, they are in communities of color," Ali said. "That same pollution is warming up our planet and warming our oceans. People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices." Harris is not the only presidential candidate who has come out with a plan focused on environmental justice. Jay Inslee released the fifth plank of his climate change package on Monday that refocuses the White House Council of Environmental Quality as a new clearinghouse for environmental justice and has its own scoring mechanism for impacts. Ali points out an equity score is potentially significant, because it helps "put up a wall of protections around those communities," adding, "I think it's just now starting to gather steam."	False
164	yahoonews	left_center_bias	2019-12-24	Spewing.	Right?	It's our air, their air, everything — right?	So they make these things and then they put them up."	e'll have an economy based on wind.		Trump huffs and puffs about windmills, but wind power keeps growing Despite longstanding opposition to renewable energy on the part of President Trump, who gave a rambling, nearly incoherent disquisition on windmills last weekend, the wind power industry in the United States continued to grow in 2019. The country set records for newly installed capacity of wind power in both the second and third quarters of 2019, according to a report by the American Wind Energy Association, reaching a total of 100 gigawatts —roughly on a par with nuclear plants, although in terms of actual power generated (as distinguished from theoretical capacity), wind is still a fraction of nuclear and fossil fuels." ind now supplies clean and efficient power to the equivalent of 32 million American homes, sustains 500 U.S. factories, and delivers more than $1 billion a year in new revenue to rural communities and states," Tom Kernan, CEO of AWEA, said in a statement. At a time when global carbon emissions that cause climate change continue to rise, wind power now accounts for 6.5 percent of the energy America produces. Once the wind turbines are constructed, the energy they produce is carbon neutral and renewable indefinitely. Yet Trump, who believes that climate change is a "hoax," is no fan of windmills, as he once again made clear last weekend in a speech in Florida." e'll have an economy based on wind. I never understood wind. You know, I know windmills very much. I've studied it better than anybody. I know it's very expensive. They're made in China and Germany mostly — very few made here, almost none. But they're manufactured tremendous — if you're into this — tremendous fumes," Trump asserted. "Gases are spewing into the atmosphere. You know we have a world, right? So the world is tiny compared to the universe. So tremendous, tremendous amount of fumes and everything. You talk about the carbon footprint — fumes are spewing into the air. Right? Spewing. Whether it's in China, Germany, it's going into the air. It's our air, their air, everything — right? So they make these things and then they put them up." Trump, who filed an unsuccessful lawsuit against the government of Scotland to block the construction of offshore wind turbines he said would mar the views from one of his golf resorts, also complained in his Florida speech that wind turbines killed birds." o under a windmill someday, you'll see more birds than you've ever seen ever in your life," Trump said. While it is true that an estimated 234,000 birds die each year in collisions with wind turbines, according to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, many more are killed by flying into buildings or by domestic cats. In 2018, the Trump administration eliminated criminal penalties for unintentional migratory bird deaths resulting from industrial or agricultural activity, the New York Times reported. Despite the rapid growth in the construction of wind power facilities across the U.S., the Interior Department announced in August that it was withholding approval for a wind project off the coast of Massachusetts similar to the one Trump opposed in Scotland. Interior Department spokesman Nicholas Goodwin said in a statement that the government needed to make sure the project was "safe and environmentally responsible." In April, Trump, without citing any evidence, told a Republican audience that wind turbines were dangerous to human health." hey say the noise causes cancer," Trump said. That claim, like all the others Trump has made about wind power, was quickly refuted." he American Cancer Society is unaware of any credible evidence linking the noise from windmills to cancer," a spokesman for the group told the Times in an email.• None Behind Pelosi's risky strategy to withhold impeachment from Senate• None What happens to the articles of impeachment now?• None Trump impeachment FAQ: What you need to know	False
527	bbc	left_center_bias	2018-10-10	The key element is that these three solutions must be implemented together."	All measures combined can result in keeping healthy both planet and people."	We looked at improving agricultural yields in particular of more health sensitive crops like fruit, vegetables and legumes," said Dr Springmann."	This means eating mainly plant-based foods, and is one of three key steps towards a sustainable future for all in 2050, they say.	This involves boosting yields from existing cropland, improving water management and restricting and recycling fertiliser use."		'Flexitarian' diets key to feeding people in a warming world If the world wants to limit climate change, water scarcity and pollution, then we all need to embrace "flexitarian" diets, say scientists. This means eating mainly plant-based foods, and is one of three key steps towards a sustainable future for all in 2050, they say. Food waste will need to be halved and farming practices will also have to improve, according to the study. Without action, the impacts of the food system could increase by up to 90%. Fast on the heels of the landmark report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) comes this new study on how food production and consumption impact major threats to the planet. The authors say that the food system has a number of significant environmental impacts including being a major driver of climate change, depleting freshwater and pollution through excessive use of nitrogen and phosphorous. The study says that thanks to the population and income growth expected between 2010 and 2050, these impacts could grow between 50-90%. This could push our world beyond its planetary boundaries, which the authors say represent a "safe operating space for humanity on a stable Earth system". However the study finds that no single solution will avert the dangers, so a combined approach is needed. So when it comes to climate change, the authors looked at what they called a "flexitarian diet"." We can eat a range of healthy diets but what they all have in common, according to the latest scientific evidence, is that they are all relatively plant based," said lead author Dr Marco Springmann from the University of Oxford." You can go from a diet that has small amounts of animal products, some might call it a Mediterranean based diet, we call it a flexitarian diet, over to a pescatarian, vegetarian or vegan diet - we tried to stay with the most conservative one of these which in our view is the flexitarian one, but even this has only one serving of red meat per week." If the world moved to this type of diet, the study found that greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture would be reduced by more than half. But as well as altering diets, the research says that farming practices need to change significantly. This involves boosting yields from existing cropland, improving water management and restricting and recycling fertiliser use." We looked at improving agricultural yields in particular of more health sensitive crops like fruit, vegetables and legumes," said Dr Springmann." In the past there has been lots of invest in the stable grains like maize and corn, but now we really need to move it to the crops we need more of. We also looked at increasing the efficiency of water use, and we looked at better monitoring and recycling of fertiliser - lots of it is lost and it runs off into rivers and causes dead zones in the oceans." In addition, the study found that halving the amount of food lost to waste would reduce the environmental impacts of agriculture by 16%." Tackling food loss and waste will require measures across the entire food chain, from storage, and transport, over food packaging and labelling to changes in legislation and business behaviour that promote zero-waste supply chains," said Fabrice de Clerck, director of science at EAT who funded the study. The key element is that these three solutions must be implemented together." Feeding a world population of 10 billion people is possible - yet only if we change the way we eat, and the way we produce food," said Johan Rockström, director designate of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, who is one of the authors of the study." All measures combined can result in keeping healthy both planet and people." The study has been published in the journal Nature.	False
253	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-08-23	n the question of burning in the Amazon, which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money, what is the intention?"	"Maybe — I am not affirming it — these (NGOs) are carrying out some criminal actions to draw attention against me, against the government of Brazil.	"It is an international crisis.	"They send it with the aim of interfering with our sovereignty."	This is the war we are facing."		Amazon Fires: Brazil's Bolsonaro Urges Macron to Stop Meddling After He Threatens to Veto Trade Deal According to data from Brazil's National Institute for Space Research (NISR), which monitors deforestation and wildfires, around 74,000 fires have occurred across the Amazon rainforest in 2019, an 84 percent increase from the same period in 2018. Macron took to Twitter on Thursday to express concern about the fires that have reached a record number this year, devastating vast swathes of forest long described as the "lungs of the earth." Our house is burning. Literally. The Amazon rain forest – the lungs which produces 20% of our planet's oxygen – is on fire," Macron wrote on Twitter. "It is an international crisis. Members of the G7 Summit, let's discuss this emergency first order in two days":Meanwhile, a spokesperson for the Elysée Palace said that "in light of Brazil's attitude these recent weeks Macron can only conclude that President Bolsonaro lied to him during the Osaka Summit" in June where world leaders agreed on the "urgent need" to combat climate change, pollution, and environmental destruction." he decisions and statements from Brazil these recent weeks show clearly that President Bolsonaro has decided to not respect his commitments on the climate, nor to involve himself on the issue of biodiversity," the spokesperson said. As a consequence, Macron now plans to veto any trade deal "in its current state" between the European Union and the Mercosur bloc of South American nations including Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay, and Uruguay. Posting on Facebook, Bolsonaro accused Macron of making "personal political gains in an internal matter for Brazil and other Amazonian countries," adding that "the sensationalist tone he used does nothing to solve the problem." These countries that send money here, they don't send it out of charity," he said. "They send it with the aim of interfering with our sovereignty." Yet amid rising international pressure, the 63-year-old former army captain reportedly signed an executive order deploying the military to help reduce the wildfires, which he previously blamed on NGOs who were seeking to undermine his administration." n the question of burning in the Amazon, which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money, what is the intention?" Bolsonaro told reporters in Brasilia. "Maybe — I am not affirming it — these (NGOs) are carrying out some criminal actions to draw attention against me, against the government of Brazil.  This is the war we are facing."	False
619	TheBlaze	right_bias	2017-09-19	Instead of focusing on the apprehension and divisiveness surrounding the causes of natural disasters, it's more important than ever that we maintain our humanity and come together to help one another.	In a hyper-political environment, pro-climate change and anti-climate change theory rhetoric serves only to distract from the real issue at hand: the necessity of serving people impacted by natural disasters, and the implementation of standardized response to these crises.	While much of the media and government is ensconced in creating division among political parties and ideologies, it's more important to avoid playing into alarmist rhetoric, which only serves to "encourage" people through anxiety and panic.	With the eastern seaboard still in the thick of hurricane season (as well as the most recent devastation caused by Category 5 Hurricane Maria, which was said to "cripple" Dominica with "widespread devastation" en route to Puerto Rico and possibly the States), it's important to maintain levelheaded perspective and communication on natural disasters while speaking truth amidst apprehension.	He added that the study is based on concrete "mainstream science," and cited reports from The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and NOAA to corroborate his analysis.		New analysis disputes the theory that climate change was responsible for Harvey and Irma In a new study, economist and environmental analyst Nicholas Loris explained that climate change simply isn't responsible for Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. Bottom line, Loris's analysis stated that "man-made warming" was not responsible for Harvey and Irma." an-made warming did not cause Harvey and Irma," Loris wrote. "As carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions have increased, there have been no trends in global tropical cycle landfalls." Loris said that the "average number of hurricanes per decade reaching landfall in the U.S. has fallen over the past 160 years." He added that the study is based on concrete "mainstream science," and cited reports from The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and NOAA to corroborate his analysis. Loris also disputed assertions that global warming "supercharged" these hurricanes, which made them deadlier, citing work by University of Washington climatologist Cliff Mass and former director of the National Hurricane Center Bill Read, both of whom rejected this claim after conducting research into the phenomenon. With the eastern seaboard still in the thick of hurricane season (as well as the most recent devastation caused by Category 5 Hurricane Maria, which was said to "cripple" Dominica with "widespread devastation" en route to Puerto Rico and possibly the States), it's important to maintain levelheaded perspective and communication on natural disasters while speaking truth amidst apprehension. In a hyper-political environment, pro-climate change and anti-climate change theory rhetoric serves only to distract from the real issue at hand: the necessity of serving people impacted by natural disasters, and the implementation of standardized response to these crises. While much of the media and government is ensconced in creating division among political parties and ideologies, it's more important to avoid playing into alarmist rhetoric, which only serves to "encourage" people through anxiety and panic. Instead of focusing on the apprehension and divisiveness surrounding the causes of natural disasters, it's more important than ever that we maintain our humanity and come together to help one another.	False
64	therightscoop	right_bias	2019-12-03	Thunberg, 16, has been on a tour of North America to raise awareness for climate change.	No wonder celebs opt to be complete and utter hypocrites instead of actually trying to get carbon neutral.	Thunberg was set to speak at the conference but needed to leave the U.S. sooner than expected.I mean, you really think the entire world is going to come to a screeching halt for carbon emissions when you can't even organize a publicity stunt with your own standards?	From the Hill:Greta Thunberg's plan for carbon-free travel was contradicted when her sailboat captain flew across the Atlantic Ocean to pick her up.	Thunberg and her father, who has traveled North America throughout his daughter's activist tour, could have flown aboard the same flight and burned just as much CO2.		Greta Thunberg FAILS her 'zero emissions' promise after climate summit moves to Spain Greta Thunberg tried really hard to keep her "zero emissions" promise, but it has collapsed like all hypocritical left-wing plans because it was just too difficult. From the Hill:Greta Thunberg's plan for carbon-free travel was contradicted when her sailboat captain flew across the Atlantic Ocean to pick her up. Thunberg, 16, has been on a tour of North America to raise awareness for climate change. As part of her pledge to cut back carbon dioxide emissions to save the planet, Thunberg vowed not to travel by air to limit her carbon footprint while she tours. The plan for "zero emissions" travel was subverted when Thunberg's yacht captain, Nikki Henderson, 26, flew to the United States from England, burning roughly two or three tons of carbon CO2 in the process. Thunberg and her father, who has traveled North America throughout his daughter's activist tour, could have flown aboard the same flight and burned just as much CO2. Ironically, she failed because of left-wing communist protesters in Chile:Henderson was forced to make the flight last second because protests in Chile caused the U.N.'s Cop25 climate summit to be moved to Madrid, Spain. Thunberg was set to speak at the conference but needed to leave the U.S. sooner than expected.I mean, you really think the entire world is going to come to a screeching halt for carbon emissions when you can't even organize a publicity stunt with your own standards? No wonder celebs opt to be complete and utter hypocrites instead of actually trying to get carbon neutral. And we all kinda see what is happening here – if they can't do it now, then why would we believe that they would be carbon free after they force all of us to live in backwards slums?	True
103	slate	left_bias	2019-08-24	A military leader, for example, said that part of its mission involved creating "a positive perception of the country."	Yet despite the new found sense of urgency, some are skeptical that the involvement of the military would really be able to do much.	It was clear though that deploying the military was also in part a public relations ploy.	And while the fires have been burning for weeks, the international outcry grew this week as photographs spread on social media.	That was quite a change in tune for a president who had previously described environmental protections as an impediment for economic growth and had blamed non-governmental organizations of starting the fires.		Brazil Deploys Troops to Fight Amazon Fires After International Outcry Brazil called up its military to combat fires that are raging in the Amazon after international protests over the government's seeming unwillingness to act in the face of an environmental disaster. Around 44,000 troops and military aircraft will be made available for what has been described as an "unprecedented" effort to fight fires in at least six Brazilian states. It remains unclear how many of those troops will be put on the line to combat the forest fires. Although fires are common this time of year, they are more widespread. So far nearly 77,000 wildfires have been reported across the country this year, which marked an 85 percent increase from the same period last year. And while the fires have been burning for weeks, the international outcry grew this week as photographs spread on social media. Protests took place in Brazil and across the world Friday and Saturday demanding that the Brazilian government take action. Much of the attention has focused on Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, a long-time critic of the country's environmental regulations who had tried to minimize the effects of the fires. Yet his tune appeared to change after leaders in Europe said a major trade deal could be at risk and many on social media started calling for a boycott of Brazilian products. Bolsonaro approved the involvement of the military to help put out fires in a televised speech Friday in which he claimed his government would have "zero tolerance" for environmental crimes. "Protecting the rain forest is our duty," he said. That was quite a change in tune for a president who had previously described environmental protections as an impediment for economic growth and had blamed non-governmental organizations of starting the fires. Yet despite the new found sense of urgency, some are skeptical that the involvement of the military would really be able to do much. "Once you have a huge forest fire like that, especially when you don't have all the kind of forest fire-fighting equipment that you have in places like the U.S. or Portugal, it's difficult to extinguish," Alfredo Sirkis, executive director of Brazil Climate Center, a think tank, said. "They'll only be extinguished by themselves depending on the weather conditions." It was clear though that deploying the military was also in part a public relations ploy. A military leader, for example, said that part of its mission involved creating "a positive perception of the country." As attention focused on the fires burning in the Amazon, it became clear that Europeans have taken the role as the global leaders in the fight against climate change, notes the New York Times. As European leaders, led by French President Emanuel Macron, criticized Brazil for its inaction, President Donald Trump waited until Friday evening to say that the United States was willing to help only to add that "future trade prospects" with Brazil "are very exciting."	False
326	drudgereport	right_bias	2018-07-15	Employees wanting "medical or religious" exceptions can hash those out with a company policy team.	The Motley Fool named it one of the top five most valuable startups in America.	WeWork is perhaps the most well-known company to emerge offering co-working spaces to freelancers, small businesses and even employees of large companies such as Microsoft.	New research indicates that avoiding meat is one of the biggest things an individual can do to reduce their personal environmental impact, even more than switching to a hybrid car," WeWork co-founder Miguel McKelvey said in an email to staffers.	If WeWork employees want a burger while on business, the money is coming out of their own pockets.		Company bans meat for employees on business... If WeWork employees want a burger while on business, the money is coming out of their own pockets. The global workplace startup told employees this week that the company will ban employees from expensing meals that contain red meat, pork or poultry, Bloomberg reported. The company won't provide meat for events at its 400 locations, either — part of an effort to reduce its environmental footprint." New research indicates that avoiding meat is one of the biggest things an individual can do to reduce their personal environmental impact, even more than switching to a hybrid car," WeWork co-founder Miguel McKelvey said in an email to staffers. The no-meat policy will also affect self-serve food kiosks at many of WeWork's 400 locations worldwide, according to Bloomberg. Employees wanting "medical or religious" exceptions can hash those out with a company policy team. More: As co-working grows up, niche spaces take center stageWeWork boasts 6,000 employees worldwide, according to Bloomberg. The company estimates its no-meat policy will save 15,507,103 animals by 2023, according to Business Insider, along with 16.6 billion gallons of water and 445.1 million pounds of carbon dioxide, the heat-trapping gas that alters Earth's climate. WeWork confirmed the policy change to both news outlets. WeWork is perhaps the most well-known company to emerge offering co-working spaces to freelancers, small businesses and even employees of large companies such as Microsoft. The Motley Fool named it one of the top five most valuable startups in America.	False
748	The Guardian	left_center_bias	2017-10-14	"Our work is to inform better choices and it would actually be very useful to know for sure it didn't work.	Keith believes the experiment may help to measure the feasibility and risks involved in GE, an umbrella term for a range of techniques to deliberately adjust the climate in an effort to mitigate global warming.	ll the techniques being proposed have potentially severe environmental impacts," said Silvia Ribeiro of the ETC Group, leading campaign monitors of new technologies and their possible impact on the world's poorest."	hey also ignore the question as to why there's not enough political will to have done more to tackle climate change until now and they in turn serve to justify the inaction," she added.	I'd love to publish that."		Geoengineering is not a quick fix for climate change, experts warn Trump Leading climate scientists have warned that geoengineering research could be hijacked by climate change deniers as an excuse not to reduce CO2 emissions, citing the US administration under Donald Trump as a major threat to their work. David Keith, a solar geoengineering (GE) expert at Harvard University has said there is a real danger that his work could be exploited by those who oppose action on emissions, at the same time as he defended himself and colleagues from the claims GE strengthens the argument for abandoning the targets set by the Paris climate agreement." ne of the main concerns I and everyone involved in this have, is that Trump might tweet 'geoengineering solves everything – we don't have to bother about emissions.' That would break the slow-moving agreement among many environmental groups that sound research in this field makes sense," Keith said on the sidelines of the Climate Engineering Conference (CEC) in Berlin. Indeed, utterances from people in or close to the Trump administration – most notably GE proponent secretary of state Rex Tillerson, who has referred to climate change as "just an engineering problem" – make it clear they either tacitly or directly support the idea of climate engineering. Earlier this year, Keith, a professor of applied physics at Harvard announced plans to conduct an outdoor trial into stratospheric aerosol injection, involving launching a high-altitude balloon that will spray a small quantity of reflective particles into the stratosphere. Keith believes the experiment may help to measure the feasibility and risks involved in GE, an umbrella term for a range of techniques to deliberately adjust the climate in an effort to mitigate global warming. They include reflecting sunlight from space, adding huge quantities of lime or iron to the oceans, pumping deep cold nutrient-rich waters to the surface of oceans and irrigating vast swaths of desert to grow trees. Supporters of research into geoengineering argue that its techniques – roughly-speaking divided into carbon dioxide removal (CDR, or negative emission technologies) which removes greenhouse gases, and solar-radiation management (SRM or solar geoengineering) which reduces the amount of solar energy warming the planet – could help to lessen some of the consequences of climate change. However, the common consensus is that the techniques should be used in addition to reductions in CO2 emissions. This week's conference drew attention to the huge risks involved." ll the techniques being proposed have potentially severe environmental impacts," said Silvia Ribeiro of the ETC Group, leading campaign monitors of new technologies and their possible impact on the world's poorest." hey also ignore the question as to why there's not enough political will to have done more to tackle climate change until now and they in turn serve to justify the inaction," she added. Concerns focus on techniques such as stratospheric aerosol injection, which some experts say has the potential to reduce the amount of rain from Asian and African monsoons and could have a devastating impact on the food supply of billions of people. Aerosol injection also has the potential to reduce the ozone layer and heighten the risk of exposure to ultraviolet radiation. Other possible side effects of GE may be an increase in ocean acidification, a change in weather patterns, a rapid rise in temperatures, and a huge uptake in the use of agricultural land, all of which could prompt mass migration of millions of climate change refugees. But scientists such as Keith, and Mark Lawrence, scientific director of the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies (IASS) in Potsdam, argue that with the Paris agreement goals to limit temperature rise to two degrees or less, almost impossible to achieve, the world has little choice than to thoroughly explore technical intervention and the potential it has to avoid global disaster." t will be very difficult to achieve the Paris agreement calls without some form of climate engineering," Lawrence said. "It's not impossible, but it's hard to imagine we would make the major changes in our infrastructure and lifestyles in the time necessary." Keith also dismissed the view that climate engineers like himself were on a mission to prove that climate engineering worked at all costs, or else see the importance of decades of their life's work evaporate." t the best climate engineering is a supplement, and it could be that we shouldn't do it," he insisted. "Our work is to inform better choices and it would actually be very useful to know for sure it didn't work. Right now there are heads of state and others in leadership who are explicitly assuming it could work, that it's there if we need it. But let's say we found something deep in the climate models which suggested we were overoptimistic about solar geoengineering, then I would say 'abandon it'. That would be great. I'd love to publish that."	False
3	redstate	right_bias	2019-07-20	On a broader note, I'm confused.	No, not really.	She posted a picture of a few inches of water and called it "unprecedented flooding," even though Washington D.C. has had actual major floods several times throughout it's relatively short history.	Wouldn't those be good things in the face of supposed extreme heat?But making sense isn't a tenant of the climate religion.I've got a new twitter!	Weird how everything just so happens to reinforce her political narrative and now she's back with another hot take.		AOC Has Found Another Thing to Nonsensically Blame on the "Climate Crisis" Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has found something else to blame on the supposed "climate crisis."A few weeks ago she let us all know that heavy rain in a city built on a swamp was absolute proof of catastrophic global warming. She posted a picture of a few inches of water and called it "unprecedented flooding," even though Washington D.C. has had actual major floods several times throughout it's relatively short history. Then there was the explosion at an oil refinery, which despite not being a weather event at all (nor being caused by one), was somehow the fault of climate change. Weird how everything just so happens to reinforce her political narrative and now she's back with another hot take. You see, it rained in New York City and that was obviously caused by global warming. Did it rain a lot? No, not really. There was no record rainfall or a weeks worth of severe storms. It just…rained, something it has presumably been doing there for millions of years. In reality, New York City's subway system is a dumpster fire of mismanagement. The city's communist Mayor, Bill de Blasio, has run it into the ground with stupid financial decisions and misuse of funds. You see, they've got money to pay for illegal alien's healthcare, but they can't keep the trains running or the sewage systems from backing up. The flooding in this case wasn't because of a massive downpour. It was because the infrastructure is falling apart. If a pipe bursts in your house, that's not the fault of climate change. On a broader note, I'm confused. What happened to climate change leading to massive desertification and droughts? Now, the alarmists want to complain about rain and flooding, as if those are new phenomenons on the earth? Wouldn't those be good things in the face of supposed extreme heat?But making sense isn't a tenant of the climate religion.I've got a new twitter! Please help by following @bonchieredstate.	False
487	bbc	left_center_bias	2018-11-23	First, it is not abstract.	This report is striking for two reasons.	The world's leading scientists agree that climate change is human-induced and warn that natural fluctuations in temperature are being exacerbated by human activity.	Environmental groups said the report underlined their demands for action.	The US climate assessment outlines the prospective impacts of climate change across every sector of American society."		Climate change: Report warns of growing impact on US life Unchecked climate change will cost the US hundreds of billions of dollars and damage human health and quality of life, a US government report warns." Future risks from climate change depend... on decisions made today," the 4th National Climate Assessment says. The report says climate change is "presenting growing challenges to human health and safety, quality of life, and the rate of economic growth". The warning is at odds with the Trump administration's fossil fuels agenda. During a blast of icy weather in Washington this week, Donald Trump tweeted, "whatever happened to global warming?"Now, without mentioning the president, his own scientists have answered their boss's question in comprehensive detail. Global warming is here in the United States, they say - now. It is already deadly serious and without urgent, dramatic change, it will be catastrophic. This report is striking for two reasons. First, it is not abstract. It gives many specific examples - overwhelmed dams in South Carolina; failing crops in the parched Great Plains; a rise in insect-borne disease in Florida. And, secondly, it majors on the economic impact, in effect challenging the White House's insistence on prioritising economic growth over environmental regulation. With warnings about the effects on crumbling infrastructure, falling crop yields and decreasing labour productivity, the report sounds an alarm that climate change will soon cascade into every corner of American life. The White House said the report - compiled with help from numerous US government agencies and departments - was inaccurate. Spokeswoman Lindsay Walters said it was "largely based on the most extreme scenario, which contradicts long-established trends by assuming that... there would be limited technology and innovation, and a rapidly expanding population". The world's leading scientists agree that climate change is human-induced and warn that natural fluctuations in temperature are being exacerbated by human activity. The US climate assessment outlines the prospective impacts of climate change across every sector of American society." With continued growth in emissions at historic rates, annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century - more than the current gross domestic product (GDP) of many US states," the report says." Without substantial and sustained global mitigation and regional adaptation efforts, climate change is expected to cause growing losses to American infrastructure and property and impede the rate of economic growth over this century." The report notes that the effects of climate change are already being felt in communities across the country, including more frequent and intense extreme weather and climate-related events. But it says that projections of future catastrophe could change if society works to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and "to adapt to the changes that will occur". Environmental groups said the report underlined their demands for action. Brenda Ekwurzel, director of climate science at the Union of Concerned Scientists and one of the report's authors, said the report made it clear that climate change was not "some problem in the distant future"." It's happening right now in every part of the country," she said. That view was echoed by Abigail Dillen, president of environmental group Earthjustice." While President Trump continues to ignore the threat of climate change, his own administration is sounding the alarm," she said. In October, President Trump accused climate change scientists of having a "political agenda", telling Fox News he was unconvinced that humans were responsible for the earth's rising temperatures. After taking office he announced the US would withdraw from the Paris climate change agreement, which commits another 187 other countries to keeping rising global temperatures "well below" 2C above pre-industrial levels. At the time, Mr Trump said he wanted to negotiate a new "fair" deal that would not disadvantage US businesses and workers. During his election campaign in 2016 Mr Trump said climate change was "a hoax". However he has since rowed back on that statement saying in a recent interview: "I don't think it's a hoax, I think there's probably a difference."A report released in October by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) - the leading international body evaluating climate change - said it could only be stopped if the world made major, and costly, changes. That means reducing global emissions of CO2 by 45% from 2010 levels by 2030, and reducing coal use to almost zero and using up to seven million sq km (2.7 million square miles) for land energy crops. If the world fails to act, the researchers warned, there would be some significant and dangerous changes to our world, including rising sea levels, significant impacts on ocean temperatures and acidity, and the ability to grow crops such as rice, maize and wheat.	False
655	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-06-03	This is about an ambitious and unshakable desire to leave a cleaner, healthier and more sustainable planet for our kids and for generations to come."	We want to be there, we want to be providing solutions for the world.	We know where we're going."	anada wants to create good jobs, and wants to grow our economy and create opportunities for business.	Through crestfallen, Trudeau reiterated to the president "Canada's continued commitment to working internationally to address climate change.		Trudeau Team 'Disappointed' Over U.S. Exit From Paris Climate Accord Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his "climate change" minister Catherine McKenna are both "disappointed" over President Donald Trump's decision to break with the Paris climate accord. Trudeau and Trump exchanged words over the phone on Thursday night when the prime minister "expressed his disappointment with the president's decision," according to a news release from the Prime Minister's Office. Through crestfallen, Trudeau reiterated to the president "Canada's continued commitment to working internationally to address climate change. This is about an ambitious and unshakable desire to leave a cleaner, healthier and more sustainable planet for our kids and for generations to come." Despite the lofty objectives, when Trudeau signed the Paris accord he was widely criticized in Canada by environmentalists for selling out to an agreement that they said was far too lenient on greenhouse gas producers. Nonetheless, Liberal Environment and Climate Change Minister Catherine McKenna also found Trump's resolve to extricate the U.S. from the accord "deeply disappointing" and even suggested that the president will be missing out from the "inevitable" increase in green energy jobs that climate change proponents believe will soon be mushrooming around the world." he clean-growth economy is where the world is going and Canada is going to be part of it," McKenna said Thursday on Parliament Hill." anada wants to create good jobs, and wants to grow our economy and create opportunities for business. We want to be there, we want to be providing solutions for the world. We know where we're going." However, the U.S. move might well affect Trudeau's plans to implement a national carbon tax and his overall environmental agenda that many critics say will make the Canadian economy less competitive than its American counterpart. With the North American Free Trade Agreement on the cusp of renegotiation, environmental policy could well become integral to reaching a new agreement.	False
426	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-03-02	Coal ash in particular has long been a hot-button issue in the utility industry.	oday's coal ash proposal embodies EPA's commitment to our state partners by providing them with the ability to incorporate flexibilities into their coal ash permit programs based on the needs of their states," Pruitt said in a statement.	Rather, the agency justified its move by noting it is expected to save the utility sector between $31 and $100 million annually."	They face contaminated drinking water, toxic dust in the air, and serious health threats just because the EPA is choosing to side with polluters over the public."	In 2014, before the EPA passed its coal ash rule, the American Coal Ash Association, a trade group, complained about "regulatory uncertainty that has impeded the beneficial use of coal ash for half a decade."		Scott Pruitt Just Gutted Rules To Fight The Nation's 'Second Biggest Toxic Pollution Threat' The EPA's announcement makes no mention of the risks coal ash poses to human health and the environment. Rather, the agency justified its move by noting it is expected to save the utility sector between $31 and $100 million annually." oday's coal ash proposal embodies EPA's commitment to our state partners by providing them with the ability to incorporate flexibilities into their coal ash permit programs based on the needs of their states," Pruitt said in a statement. Coal-fired power plants in the United States produce roughly 140 million tons of coal ash per year, containing toxic heavy metals such as arsenic, lead, selenium and other carcinogenic substances. The waste product is typically stored in wet ponds, nearly 46 percent of which operated without liners to prevent hazardous chemicals from seeping into groundwater, according to 2012 data released by the EPA. Living within a mile of a wet coal ash storage pond poses a greater health threat than smoking a pack of cigarettes a day, raising the risk of cancer to one in 50, an EPA study from 2010 found. Children are particularly at risk of learning disabilities, birth defects, asthma and cancer, with 1.54 million living near such storage sites, according to EPA data cited by the Sierra Club." his is the second biggest toxic pollution threat in our country, and we need to clean it up – not make things easier for polluters," Earthjustice attorney Lisa Evans said in a statement. "People living near more than a thousand toxic coal ash sites are at risk. They face contaminated drinking water, toxic dust in the air, and serious health threats just because the EPA is choosing to side with polluters over the public." In 2014, the EPA catalogued 158 cases where coal ash compromised water quality, including 22 that involved recycled waste product. And a government study in 2012 estimated that the damage to fish and wildlife at 21 disposal sites came at a cost of more than $2.3 billion, "enough money to construct 155 landfills with state-of-the-art composite liners and leachate collection systems." The rule change marks the Trump administration's latest rollback of clean water regulations  at a time when drinking water contamination crises are proliferating across the country. In February 2017, less than a month after taking office, President Donald Trump signed a bill to allow coal companies to dump waste into streams. In June, the EPA moved to repeal the 2015 Waters of the U.S. rule that extended 1972 Clean Water Act protections to roughly 20 million acres of wetlands and streams. The agency formally suspended the rule on Jan. 31. Scrapping the only federal rules on coal ash presents a major problem  in the face of storms, floods and other extreme weather made more frequent and intense by climate change. When Hurricane Maria made landfall over Puerto Rico last year, flood waters swelled the river in the city of Guayama, wreaking havoc on the city's 42,000 residents and distributing its five-story-tall tower of coal ash. Coal ash in particular has long been a hot-button issue in the utility industry. In 2014, Duke Energy, one of the country's biggest power companies, spilled nearly 39,000 tons of coal ash into the Dan River, causing one of North Carolina's biggest environmental disasters in its history. In 2016, then Gov. Pat McCrory (R) signed a bill that dramatically watered down legislation forcing Duke to clean up its coal ash pits without requiring the company to excavate the waste or provide clean water to residents near the pond. Yet, two years later, the company is still battling environmentalists and regulators in the state as the utility seeks to pass the cleanup costs onto ratepayers in the form of a price hike. In a separate legal fight over coal ash, the Tennessee Valley Authority, the nation's biggest public utility, last month appealed a federal judge's order to clean up decades of coal ash environmentalists say poisoned water in the Volunteer State. Eighteen states and an alliance of big corporate interests urged an appeals court to overturn the decision last month. Gutting the EPA's rules on coal ash pollution takes some pressure off the utilities, but thrusts the industry back into the sort of "regulatory uncertainty" Pruitt vowed to alleviate. In 2014, before the EPA passed its coal ash rule, the American Coal Ash Association, a trade group, complained about "regulatory uncertainty that has impeded the beneficial use of coal ash for half a decade." It's unclear whether Pruitt's new rule promotes recycling coal ash for other uses. Coal ash can be used to pave roads, though the environmentalists say even that poses pollution risks. And last year, Purdue University researchers announced new technology to sift rare earth elements ― highly-valued components used in electronics and renewable energy hardware ― out of coal ash waste. Thomas Adams, executive director of the American Coal Ash Association, said he hopes the next part of the EPA's announcement will include changing a rule that mandates companies to go through a risk evaluation when stockpiling more than 12,400 tons of coal ash for anything other than road projects. The EPA set the threshold in 2015 based on what Adams called an "arithmetic error" that he argued hurts the market for using coal ash in cement manufacturing or to fill structures such as building foundations. He said he hopes the EPA will raise the limit to 75,000 tons. Thursday's announcement is part of a broader effort by the Trump administration to end a perceived "war" on coal waged by the Obama administration. Last year, the Utility Solid Waste Activities Group petitioned the EPA to roll back the Obama-era coal ash rule, calling it "burdensome, inflexible, and often impracticable." The organization of some 80 utilities warned that regulating coal ash disposal would "result in significant economic and operational impacts to coal-fired power generation," and could even force power plants to shut down.	False
270	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-07	Just a little patronizing, because I want to be an adult at the table when it comes to conversations about climate, and what we're going to do about it, and I don't want to be like someone who's sitting on the sidelines waiting for other people to act," she said, according to the Daily Mail."	"And the fact of the matter is that — what we talk about is, what are we going to do about those corporations?	Kiddo, I want you to just take a look.	One woman associated with the environmental group 350 New Hampshire Action, Rebecca Beaulieu, asked Biden how voters can trust him if he continues to associate himself with fossil fuel executives."	OK. Beaulieu, 24, said she "wasn't expecting" that kind of response from Biden and described it as "patronizing."		Joe Biden Promises Environmentalist: 'Look into My Eyes; I Guarantee You, We Are Going to End Fossil Fuel' Biden took questions from a group in New Castle, New Hampshire, Friday. One woman associated with the environmental group 350 New Hampshire Action, Rebecca Beaulieu, asked Biden how voters can trust him if he continues to associate himself with fossil fuel executives." ow can we trust that you're going to act on climate — on the climate crisis — if you're still attending fundraisers that fossil fuel executives are attending?" Beaulieu asked, according to the Daily Mail. Video shows Biden walking over to the woman, taking her hand, and making a solemn promise to "end fossil fuel … before 2050, God willing." Kiddo, I want you to just take a look. I want you to look into my eyes," Biden began."  guarantee you, I guarantee you, we are going to end fossil fuel, and I am not going to cooperate with them. Before 2050, God willing," Biden continued, adding that 2030 is not a realistic goal:No it can't be done by 2030. No, not one single person is arguing it can be done by that. But it can be done by 2050. Maybe 2045? And is the science increases, we may be able to move more quickly. But we have to we can fundamentally change things in the next 10 years, though, so that we set a path? I promise you, I promise you. OK. Beaulieu, 24, said she "wasn't expecting" that kind of response from Biden and described it as "patronizing." Just a little patronizing, because I want to be an adult at the table when it comes to conversations about climate, and what we're going to do about it, and I don't want to be like someone who's sitting on the sidelines waiting for other people to act," she said, according to the Daily Mail." 'm also like actively doing something to try to combat this climate crisis as it stands. Being called a kid is a little patronizing when I'm trying to do so much work," she added. She also said she was unsatisfied with Biden's refusal to bend his 2050 goal." ut I hope that he takes the climate crisis as seriously as he tried to make it seem and that if he's going to keep moving forward with his plans, he needs to reevaluate because 2050 is too late," she said. Biden recently came under fire for attending a fundraiser hosted by Andrew Goldman, a founder of the natural gas company Western LNG. The former vice president dismissed concerns, telling viewers of CNN's climate change town hall Wednesday that Goldman is "not a fossil fuel executive." He is not a fossil fuel executive," Biden said. "And the fact of the matter is that — what we talk about is, what are we going to do about those corporations? What have we done?""And everywhere along the way — for example, I've argued and pushed for us suing those executives who are engaged in pollution, those companies engaged in pollution," he added. "I've never walked away from that."	False
245	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-12-13	"Our plan would provide incentives for companies and individuals to lower emissions in ways they think are best."	e are offering up what we see as the common sense solution and the way forward for the party," O'Brien said in the Reuters article.	"We claim to be the party that cares about the future that our children will inherit, and we need climate policy that reflects that," said Kiera O'Brien, 21, a senior at Harvard University who co-founded the group."	he key here is the dividend – back to the people," former Sen. Trent Lott (R-MS), who supports the young group, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation."	The campaign will connect young conservatives with Republican lawmakers around the country to talk about climate policy.		Young Conservatives Balk at Republicans' Climate Change Stance, Launch Campaign for Carbon Tax The generation that has grown up with the constant drumbeat of manmade climate change is now shaping public policy, including some young conservatives who have launched a nationwide campaign in support of a carbon tax. The Thomson Reuters Foundation reported on the campaign, which runs counter to the stance of the Republican Party and President Donald Trump that the issue is more about globalization than saving the planet:Drawn from Republican groups on more than two dozen university campuses, the Young Conservatives for Carbon Dividends called for laws to tax oil, natural gas and coal producers of planet-warming greenhouse gases. The taxation plan would make fossil fuels more costly while the resulting revenues would go to taxpayers. "We claim to be the party that cares about the future that our children will inherit, and we need climate policy that reflects that," said Kiera O'Brien, 21, a senior at Harvard University who co-founded the group." e are offering up what we see as the common sense solution and the way forward for the party," O'Brien said in the Reuters article. The article pointed out that Trump has rejected the climate doomsday scenario and has instead acted to help the U.S. energy sector by slashing regulations and withdrawing the U.S. from the Paris Climate Accord, both policies aimed at helping American workers and the economy. The college Republicans behind the carbon tax campaign said the Party should have, ahead of the 2020 election, a climate change plan in place. Their plan includes an initial $40-a-ton tax on carbon dioxide – a greenhouse gas – at mines, wells, and ports where products are produced. That tax rate would increase over time, according to Reuters.O'Brien said the plan includes a family of four receiving $2,000 a year from the carbon tax revenues to help with higher energy costs. The plan "harnesses the power of the free market to solve climate change through innovation," O'Brien said. "Our plan would provide incentives for companies and individuals to lower emissions in ways they think are best." The campaign will connect young conservatives with Republican lawmakers around the country to talk about climate policy. At least one older Republican backs the idea." he key here is the dividend – back to the people," former Sen. Trent Lott (R-MS), who supports the young group, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation." t's not sustainable for Republicans, through the leadership, to say 'We just don't want to talk about this,'" Lott said.	False
2	thedailycaller	right_bias	2019-01-22	org.	The New Deal.	Yet, IPCC report authors framed this as a problem of "political will," not economics and technology.	nd I think for younger people looking at this are more like, how are we saying let's take it easy when 3,000 Americans died last year, how are we saying let's take it easy when the end person died from our cruel and unjust criminal justice system?"	All the news stories stressing climate alarm spurred calls for action on global warming.		Ocasio-Cortez's Climate Alarm Isn't Shocking. She's Just Repeating Months Of Media Narrative Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's claim the "world is gonna end in 12 years" shouldn't come as a shock to anyone because she's only repeating the same doomsday narrative pushed by some scientists and news outlets for months. In fact, Ocasio-Cortez followed up her remarks from Monday night with a couple tweets doubling down on her 12-year warning, but also showing she didn't make it up. The freshman Democrat pointed to a Vox article warning "we have just 12 years to limit devastating global warming" and a Guardian article claiming "[w]e have 12 years to limit climate change catastrophe" — both articles were based on a United Nations report from October 2018. That U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report examined what would need to be done in order to limit future global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius by 2100. The report was mandated by the Paris climate accord. The IPCC reported greenhouse gas emissions would need to fall 45 percent below 2010 levels by 2030, and then reach zero by 2050 for a 66 percent chance of keeping projected warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. (RELATED: Another Headline-Grabbing Ocean Warming Study Is Full Of 'Factual Errors And Misleading Statements,' Scientist Says)And in the months since that report, news has been inundated with headlines warning it's "worse than we thought" or the world's ice sheets are reaching a "tipping point." The most widely reported climate study in 2018 warned we were on track for a "hothouse Earth." Nearly ever natural disaster in 2018 were tied to global warming in some way, from California's devastating wildfires to hurricanes Florence and Michael. All the news stories stressing climate alarm spurred calls for action on global warming. However, many experts looking at the IPCC's report saw it as infeasible to completely overhaul the global ecology in 12 years, and there are serious questions about the accuracy of U.N. climate models. Yet, IPCC report authors framed this as a problem of "political will," not economics and technology. The report itself says "there is no documented historic precedent" for the sweeping changes needed to fight global warming. That's the line activists and many politicians have taken up in the months since the IPCC's report. Indeed, Ocasio-Cortez said global warming is her generation's World War II. And what preceded World War II? The New Deal. Ocasio-Cortez now wants a Green New Deal to move the U.S. away from fossil fuels and address a variety of injustices she sees in our current economic system." nd I think for younger people looking at this are more like, how are we saying let's take it easy when 3,000 Americans died last year, how are we saying let's take it easy when the end person died from our cruel and unjust criminal justice system?" Ocasio-Cortez said at an event in New York City Monday night. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
551	theguardian	left_center_bias	2018-02-20	"Our fight to protect public health and our environment will continue in court."	hey are trying to score political points or attempting to grant favours to corporations who don't want to follow the rules," said Aaron Colangelo, the litigation director of the Natural Resources Defense Council.	They have been reckless and not followed the basic requirements of the law."	This apparent change of heart followed legal action filed by green groups, part of a cascade of courtroom standoffs that are starting to slow and even reverse the Trump administration's blitzkrieg of environmental regulations."	It was aimed not at sooty power plants or emissions-intensive trucks, but dentists.		'Sloppy and careless': courts call out Trump blitzkrieg on environmental rules In its first year in office, the Trump administration introduced a solitary new environmental rule aimed at protecting the public from pollution. It was aimed not at sooty power plants or emissions-intensive trucks, but dentists. Every year, dentists fill Americans' tooth cavities with an amalgam that includes mercury. About 5 tons of mercury, a dangerous toxin that can taint the brain and the nervous system, are washed away from dental offices down drains each year. In Trump's first day in the White House, the administration told the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to withdraw an Obama-era plan that would require dentists to prevent this mercury from getting into waterways. But in June, the rule was unexpectedly enacted. This apparent change of heart followed legal action filed by green groups, part of a cascade of courtroom standoffs that are starting to slow and even reverse the Trump administration's blitzkrieg of environmental regulations." he Trump administration has been sloppy and careless, they've shown significant disrespect for rule of law and courts have called them on it," said Richard Revesz, a professor at the New York University school of law."  expect we will see a number of further losses for the administration on similar grounds. If they keep showing the same disregard for the law, their attempt to repeal all these environmental regulations will go badly for them." The reversal of Obama's environmental legacy has been spearheaded by Scott Pruitt, who heads the EPA, the agency he repeatedly sued as Oklahoma attorney general. Pruitt, who accused Obama of "bending the rule of law" and federal overreach, has overseen the methodical delay or scrapping of dozens of rules curbing pollution from power plants, pesticides and vehicles. Ironically for Pruitt, who has touted a "back to basics" approach rooted safely within the confines of the law, this rapidly executed agenda has run into a thicket of legal problems, causing the administration to admit defeat in several cases. In July, a federal court ruled that the EPA couldn't suspend rules designed to curb methane emissions from new oil and gas wells. This was followed by a hasty retreat in August when the EPA agreed to not delay new standards to reduce smog-causing air pollutants, the day after 15 states and environment groups sued. Then, in December, a federal court told the EPA it couldn't delay a new standard for dangerous levels of lead in paint and dust. Other arms of the federal government have also been stymied from implementing Trump's deregulatory agenda. The US Fish and Wildlife Service, stung by a lawsuit, listed the rusty patched bumblebee as endangered in March after initially delaying the decision. And on Thursday, a federal court told the department of energy it must implement four energy efficiency regulations it was looking to scuttle. Many of these legal problems have stemmed from the sheer pace of the rollbacks – required public comment periods have been set aside in some cases, any rationale for repeal or delay has been missing in others. Opponents of the administration also believe there is a determination to expunge every vestige of Obama's environmental legacy, regardless of merit." hey are trying to score political points or attempting to grant favours to corporations who don't want to follow the rules," said Aaron Colangelo, the litigation director of the Natural Resources Defense Council. "It all shows that this administration won't protect the environment unless they are sued. They have been reckless and not followed the basic requirements of the law." The EPA now faces a fresh wave of opposition as it looks to craft replacements for major Obama rules such as the clean power plan, which sought to limit emissions from coal-fired power plants, and the waters of the US rule, which greatly expanded clean water protections. If the proposed replacements are, as expected, far less onerous on industry than current iterations, environmentalists and around a dozen states, headed by New York and California, will be poised to further jam up the process in the courts." ver and over again, the Trump administration has put the profits of multinational polluters over the health and well-being of everyday Americans," said Eric Schneiderman, New York's attorney general. Schneiderman has been prolific in opposing Trump's environmental revisions, filing more than 50 lawsuits during the administration's first year to, among other things, protect the clean power plan, enforce stricter vehicle pollution standards and ensure that chlorpyrifos, a common pesticide linked to neurological harm to children, is banned." e've already beaten back several of this administration's toxic policies, from energy efficiency rollbacks to smog," Schneiderman said. "Our fight to protect public health and our environment will continue in court."	False
435	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-12-04	e want to embrace better stewardship.	"The facts of the matter is observable data, climate change is more toward the peace time," he added, comparing the document to international relations.	We want to embrace reliability.	His "concern" as the leader of the federal agency, he said, is that "we need to be better at emphasizing the case for American energy."	In order to get there, we have to understand the technology.	A lot of the millennials look at that report and they don't look at the models," instead focusing on "rising sea levels that statistically and data-wise we don't know," he said. <sep> It's a job that comes with the sometimes conflicting tasks of preserving and protecting public lands and waters for future generations while also setting the policies that govern extracting natural resources from them. <sep> 	Ryan Zinke To Oil Reps: 'We've Gotten A Lot Better As Industry' It was clear Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke felt at home Tuesday addressing representatives of the industry that was a top donor to his congressional campaigns. It's the same industry that the Trump administration has worked so hard to prop up over the last two years, and that Zinke now regulates as chief steward of America's natural resources."  see a lot of familiar faces," he told the National Petroleum Council during its meeting in Washington, D.C., before launching into a series of go-to talking points about the importance of producing domestic energy, namely fossil fuels, and downplaying the dire conclusions of a recent federal climate report." e want to embrace better stewardship. We want to embrace reliability. In order to get there, we have to understand the technology. And in order to understand it, quite frankly, we have to work with you," he said. "I've been criticized [for] saying we want to work with you. I'll take the criticism." Zinke was referring to controversial comments he made in September during a keynote speech at the Louisiana Oil and Gas Association's meeting in Lafayette, Louisiana. "Our government should work for you," he told the oil and gas trade group, according to a post by the association. As head of the Interior Department, Zinke oversees some 500 million acres of land, or one-fifth of the United States, and 1.7 billion acres on the Outer Continental Shelf. It's a job that comes with the sometimes conflicting tasks of preserving and protecting public lands and waters for future generations while also setting the policies that govern extracting natural resources from them. Zinke has said that he's succeeded in "striking the right balance," but conservation efforts have taken a clear backseat as the administration has pushed forward with its "energy dominance" agenda. There were moments during Tuesday's speech where Zinke sounded like a seasoned oil man. He said he is "bullish" on energy and expects that within two years the U.S. will be "marching real close to" producing 14 million barrels of oil per day. And he agrees with Russian President Vladimir Putin that $60 per barrel is "a good spot to keep the economic engine" in good shape, he said." e've gotten a lot better as industry," Zinke said, quickly correcting himself. "You've gotten a lot better." He pointed to energy producers' success with domestic shale production, noting that companies have been able to turn a profit on oil from the Bakken fields in Montana and North Dakota when prices have been at around $30 per barrel. That, he said, "shows you how good we are and efficient we are." Zinke also saw the friendly atmosphere as an opportunity to, once again, cast doubt on the latest federal climate assessment. The 1,600-page report was issued by 13 federal agencies, including Interior, and released on Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving ― a move that many saw as an administrative attempt to bury the findings. Like so many other climate reports before it, the assessment warns that greenhouse gas emissions have put the planet on a path toward catastrophic climate change. But instead of blasting the report's authors ― there are more than 300 ― for basing their findings on the most extreme scenarios, a false claim that he and the White House pushed last week, Zinke on Tuesday blamed the media among other targets." he media focused on worst-case scenarios, which statistically we may not even be able to reach," he said. "The facts of the matter is observable data, climate change is more toward the peace time," he added, comparing the document to international relations. "It's kind of like the military," he said. "There's peace time and there's global nuclear combat. The media focused on global nuclear combat." A lot of the millennials look at that report and they don't look at the models," instead focusing on "rising sea levels that statistically and data-wise we don't know," he said. Zinke boasted to the room full of oil executives who have been primary beneficiaries of the Trump administration's denial of climate science and energy-dominance agenda, that the U.S. has "led the charge" in reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. His "concern" as the leader of the federal agency, he said, is that "we need to be better at emphasizing the case for American energy."	False
137	cnn	left_bias	2019-10-08	My personal views are irrelevant in this context."	As someone in the public arena for nearly four decades, I've given countless statements and written scores of articles on a wide variety of topics.	Violent crime—including dangerous gangs, over-crowded schools, the appearance of diseases once vanquished from the western world, escalating hospital costs, and an overwhelming demand for government services!"	"No wonder the environmental message has became the cause of choice for the elitists of Hollywood.	I'm focused now on implementing the policy priorities of the Trump administration and Secretary Bernhardt within the authorities and mission given this agency by Congress.	The source: illegal immigrants." <sep> They're preaching fear." <sep> 	Senior Interior official denied there was an ozone hole and compared undocumented immigrants to cancer (CNN) The acting director of the federal agency responsible for managing one in every 10 acres of land in the United States has repeatedly denied the existence of climate change and falsely claimed in a 1990s speech there was no credible evidence of a hole in the ozone layer. William Perry Pendley was appointed by Interior Secretary David Bernhardt as the acting director of the Department of Interior's Bureau of Land Management in July 2019. Prior to his appointment, Pendley was a conservative activist, commentator, lawyer and served as the longtime president of the conservative Mountain States Legal Foundation." Despite the total absence of credible scientific evidence, the media is convinced and is attempting to convince us that we have global warming, an Ozone hole and acid rain and that it is all man's fault," Pendley said in a 1992 speech to the Heritage Foundation. In other comments uncovered during a CNN KFile review of his social media activity, writings and public appearances, Pendley cited an anti-Muslim figure to claim Islam was at war with the United States, compared undocumented immigrants to cancer and blamed them for diseases. Asked about his comments and if he still holds his views, Pendley said his views were being taken out of context and were irrelevant to his role at BLM." As someone in the public arena for nearly four decades, I've given countless statements and written scores of articles on a wide variety of topics. Cherrypicking a few of them out of context is neither useful nor connected to my current position. I'm focused now on implementing the policy priorities of the Trump administration and Secretary Bernhardt within the authorities and mission given this agency by Congress. My personal views are irrelevant in this context." 'Environmentalism' is indeed the last refuge of the left, the last safe haven for those who trust, not the people, but big government, those who seek to place the power in the hands of federal bureaucrats," Pendley said. "No wonder the environmental message has became the cause of choice for the elitists of Hollywood. It should not surprise us that they have embraced environmentalism with the same self-righteous fervor as they once embraced socialism and communism." Despite the total absence of credible scientific evidence, the media is convinced and is attempting to convince us that we have global warming, an Ozone hole and acid rain and that it is all man's fault," he added. Pendley has repeatedly denied the existence of climate change and mocked the scientific consensus around environmental issues as rooted in "bad science." I debated an environmentalist on television here in Denver and, and it's, he, she was quoting people about global warming and I said, you realize the people you're quoting just a couple of years ago were predicting global cooling on a massive scale that we would not be able to feed ourselves. And it stopped her for just a second," Pendley said. "And then she said, 'Well, it's going to be something.' And that's what the environmentalists say. It's going to be something, to quote another movie, from the movie The Fly, 'Be afraid, be very afraid.' And that's what they're preaching. They're preaching fear." At times, Pendley's denial of climate change has drifted into even more fringe claims linking the broader US environmental movement to the fall of the Soviet Union and communism." Because of the collapse of communism, because the wall has come down, because the Soviet Union is no more... the environmental movement is the last refuge of people who favor government over people," he said." Who knew? Islam's war with America started just up the road in Greeley, Colorado!," Pendley tweeted. In the article, Spencer floats unfounded conspiracies about "leftists" allying with "Islamic hardliners who adhere to Sharia, a system of laws that would have many of them executed." (New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and President Barack Obama) think -- if one can call it thinking or anything more than wishful thinking—that Americans should be afraid of terrorist attacks, not from all those who embrace radical Islam, but from their countrymen who hold very strong views on important issues of the day?," Pendley wrote. Pendley has repeatedly used extreme rhetoric to refer to undocumented immigrants." You see, the problems Hazleton or Valley Park faces could be in your community next because illegal immigration is spreading like a cancer," Pendley wrote. "Partly this is because Mexico and some other governments promote and encourage illegal immigration into our country." Pendley went on to say if "massive immigration" continued "you and I will permanently lose the country we love""Frustrated by the failure of the federal government to address the issue of illegal immigration and the problems it poses for the tiny, cash-strapped city -- including violent crime, crowded schools, hospital costs, and the demand for services—the City Council, at the request of Mayor Lou Barletta, adopted legislation to deal with these problems." Violent crime—including dangerous gangs, over-crowded schools, the appearance of diseases once vanquished from the western world, escalating hospital costs, and an overwhelming demand for government services!" Pendley wrote. "These are the new problems being faced by small, cash-strapped cities and towns all across America. The source: illegal immigrants."	False
639	TheBlaze	right_bias	2017-06-03	"It was a voluntary program … The president was not truthful with the American people today, and the president who talked about putting America first, has now put America last."	Kerry's primary arguments that Trump's decision will hurt kids with asthma and damage the economy were incredibly misleading.	ir quality has been increasing, pollution has been decreasing, things are getting better and asthma's getting worse," Simmons said.	"He is hurting them.	Of course, scientists disagree over what has caused Earth's climate to warm over the past century, and, perhaps most importantly, increased pollen comes from increased plant growth and, as a result, increased crop yields.		John Kerry makes bogus claims against Trump for pulling out of Paris Agreement In an interview on MSNBC on Thursday, former Secretary of State John Kerry said President Donald Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris Climate Accord "puts America last," is "shameful" and will hurt kids by worsening their asthma." t is a shameful moment for the United States, to have unilaterally walked away from an agreement which did not have one other country requiring us to do something," Kerry told Andrea Mitchell. "It was a voluntary program … The president was not truthful with the American people today, and the president who talked about putting America first, has now put America last." Kerry claimed Trump is not helping the "forgotten American." Trump "is not helping the forgotten American," Kerry said. "He is hurting them. Their kids will have worse asthma in the summer. They will have a harder time having economic growth. He's made us an environmental pariah in the world, and I think it is one of the most self-destructive moves I've ever seen by any president in my lifetime." Kerry's primary arguments that Trump's decision will hurt kids with asthma and damage the economy were incredibly misleading. A 2015 study by researcher Dr. Corrine Keet at John's Hopkins Children Center found no statistically significant difference in the prevalence of asthma for kids living in inner-city areas, where there is much more air pollution, and kids who live in the suburbs and rural areas. More than 23,000 children were included in the study. Daniel Simmons, the vice president for policy at the Institute for Energy Research, noted in a quote appearing in an article by E&E News that asthma rates have been steadily worsening even though air quality has been improving." ir quality has been increasing, pollution has been decreasing, things are getting better and asthma's getting worse," Simmons said. "You have this disconnect." In 2013, USA Today reported that Earth's warming climate has caused pollen season to increase, thereby exacerbating many people's asthma. If climate change is being caused by human-produced carbon-dioxide, this could lend support to Kerry's claim about asthma. Of course, scientists disagree over what has caused Earth's climate to warm over the past century, and, perhaps most importantly, increased pollen comes from increased plant growth and, as a result, increased crop yields. Should more plants and food for people and animals really be demonized?Kerry's argument that Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris Agreement will cause economic problems is equally absurd. Kerry cited in the interview the "millions" of renewable-energy jobs that have been created to help curb carbon-dioxide emissions as an example of how the Paris Agreement and its associated efforts would have a positive impact on the economy, but the truth is that the only reason the wind and solar energy industries have been able to survive is because they are heavily subsidized by taxpayers. Further, wind and solar are much more expensive forms of energy, which means Americans' power bills would continue to rise under the terms of the Paris Climate Agreement. As H. Sterling Burnett, a research fellow in climate and energy issues for The Heartland Institute, where I also work as executive editor and a research fellow, noted in a recent article on Trump's decision, "Numerous studies, including a NERA Economic Consulting report cited in Trump's announcement, showed meeting the carbon-dioxide targets imposed on the United States under the Paris agreement would force the premature closing of many of the nation's least-expensive power plants. NERA estimated meeting the nation's obligations under the agreement would cost the U.S. economy nearly $3 trillion, and by 2040, the United States would have lost 6.5 million industrial-sector jobs, including 3.1 million manufacturing jobs."	True
277	rt	questionable_source	2019-07-14	Think your friends would be interested?	If both options were to fail, Beykpour suggested "we dump this site" and move on.	Option one involved hiring a PR firm to manufacture fake "grassroots" support for the facility and "change the conversation."	However, few are happy to live near the firm's bottling plants, where they say heavy traffic disturbs their sleep and the company's water collection activities threaten endangered species and destroy the "rural character" of their areas.	With pro-corporate protesters likely to raise some eyebrows, he outlined a more radical approach: sue locals in the area for past damages to the local water system to bring "them to the table."		Community showdown with bottled water plant gets surprise twist when company reveals its own emails Bottled water firm Crystal Geyser's heavily-protested plans for a plant in Washington state are all but dashed, after company execs accidentally sent an internal email calling the operation "dead" to the local press. Crystal Geyser bottles natural spring water and sells it to thirsty Americans, with nearly one in five consumers drinking its beverages every month. However, few are happy to live near the firm's bottling plants, where they say heavy traffic disturbs their sleep and the company's water collection activities threaten endangered species and destroy the "rural character" of their areas. Earlier this year, Crystal Geyser bought land in Lewis County, Washington. The company planned on building a 100,000 square foot plant that would extract 400 gallons of water per minute from nearby springs. At present, Crystal Geyser needs a county permit to begin operations. However, in an email accidentally sent to The Chronicle but intended for a higher-up, Chief Operating Officer Page Beykpour said that the plan is likely "dead because the opposition has successfully convinced officials and the media against us." Locals did come out in force against the plant, with concerned citizens flooding council meetings since the plans were announced last month. Facebook groups have sprung up to oppose the plant, and the local tribal council voted unanimously against it. Beykpour offered his boss two "long shot" options to push back against the public outcry. Option one involved hiring a PR firm to manufacture fake "grassroots" support for the facility and "change the conversation." With pro-corporate protesters likely to raise some eyebrows, he outlined a more radical approach: sue locals in the area for past damages to the local water system to bring "them to the table." If both options were to fail, Beykpour suggested "we dump this site" and move on. Once the paper got a hold of the email, Crystal Geyser went into panic mode. The newspaper claims Beykpour called the Chronicle and "pleaded for the email not to be published," and admitted that the company is still mulling suing its neighbors. In his email, Beykpour had claimed the Chronicle was "in bed with the opposition."A lawyer representing Crystal Geyser called the newspaper and threatened legal action for running the story. The Chronicle rubbished the threat, quoting a media law expert who stated that the company's email screw-up was its own fault and not the newspaper's. RT has reached out to Crystal Geyser for comment, and is awaiting a response. Crystal Geyser is no stranger to local anger. Residents in Mount Shasta, California were furious when the company announced plans to bottle water from a local aquefier in 2014, at a time when the state was threatened by drought and Californians faced mandatory water-use restrictions. In 2018, the company was accused of illegally disposing of arsenic-tainted wastewater from another of its California plants. According to a 16-count indictment, Crystal Geyser discharged the toxic waste into a pond that staff dubbed the "arsenic pond," and then worked with two waste disposal firms to illegally transport the arsenic to a plant without a license to treat it. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False
808	Fusion	left_center_bias	2017-05-25	The time has come for radical thinking, for inclusive problem-solving, for crowd-sourced innovation.	It's simple: the more diverse the group discussing the problem is, the more comprehensive, sustainable, and creative the solutions are.	It was that baseline that we used in the report we release today, the "Transparency Card," which evaluates what kind of change has been made.	And it isn't, as has been suggested, because we've become so immune to data that numbers aren't persuasive anymore.	We help hiring managers and executive search firms access the deep pipeline of qualified candidates of color, help organizations build an equitable and inclusive culture internally, and advocate for data transparency across the sector.	In 2014, we reported their staff and leadership demographics to create the first-ever snapshot of the sector. <sep> And furthermore, with the environmental challenges facing us right now—from the new energy economy to ocean acidification—we need all the creativity available to help us find pathways to clean food, water, and air. <sep> It's urgent that we bring more voices into the conversation. <sep> For the past three years, we have been working to build our database of the diversity of the top 40 NGOs across the movement. <sep> Overall, environmental organizations have committed to improving diversity among their staff and board since we started this work. <sep> It silences the very people who often feel the greatest impact of a warming planet, even though activists of color could make or break success for this work. <sep> (AP Photo/Nam Y. Huh)APIt seems like every week there's a new story about some completely unprecedented, unpredictable environmental event. <sep> 	To win the fight against climate change, the environmental movement needs to include leaders of color Jessica Fujan chants on the Wacker Drive during a "100 Days of Failure" protest and march, Saturday, April 29, 2016, in Chicago. Thousands of people across the U.S. are marking President Donald Trump's hundredth day in office by marching in protest of his environmental policies. (AP Photo/Nam Y. Huh)APIt seems like every week there's a new story about some completely unprecedented, unpredictable environmental event. Antarctica is turning green. California is paralyzed by drought. Forests are shifting, and the first climate refugees have lost their homes. The climate is changing, and quickly. And we aren't keeping up with it. This isn't because there is not enough scientific evidence to prove the threat—there is. It isn't because the majority of Americans don't believe climate change is caused by human activity—they do. And it isn't, as has been suggested, because we've become so immune to data that numbers aren't persuasive anymore. We aren't keeping up with climate change because the environmental movement is allowing a legacy of implicit bias to constrict its leadership and strategy. By refusing to challenge the long-held belief that white environmentalists are the most informed, prepared, passionate, dedicated defenders of our planet and its natural resources, the movement silences communities of color. It silences the very people who often feel the greatest impact of a warming planet, even though activists of color could make or break success for this work. In our new report, Green 2.0 found that the environmental movement—from boards, to executive leadership, to staff—is still overwhelmingly white. Green 2.0 is an advocacy campaign that monitors and supports diversifying the racial and ethnic demography of mainstream environmental NGOs, foundations, and federal government agencies. We help hiring managers and executive search firms access the deep pipeline of qualified candidates of color, help organizations build an equitable and inclusive culture internally, and advocate for data transparency across the sector. For the past three years, we have been working to build our database of the diversity of the top 40 NGOs across the movement. In 2014, we reported their staff and leadership demographics to create the first-ever snapshot of the sector. It was that baseline that we used in the report we release today, the "Transparency Card," which evaluates what kind of change has been made. We saw some encouraging progress. Overall, environmental organizations have committed to improving diversity among their staff and board since we started this work.  It is evidenced by the number of diversity committees, managers and plans that have sprung up since 2014.  Across the movement, people of color represent 27%, 15% 24% of staff, leadership and board positions respectively in 2017. But there's still much more work to be done. More than 70% of those working in the space are white. Diversity is still seriously lacking at the senior leadership level. Two organizations—Oceana and the Pew Charitable Trusts—refused to even participate in the survey. This is problem, and not just a theoretical one. From Flint to Standing Rock, we've seen that communities of color are disproportionately affected by pollution and climate change. When they don't have a seat at the table, how can the movement be ready to systematically tackle issues that affect them uniquely? Without people of color in leadership and policymaking positions, their perspectives are less likely to be included in outcomes. And furthermore, with the environmental challenges facing us right now—from the new energy economy to ocean acidification—we need all the creativity available to help us find pathways to clean food, water, and air. It's simple: the more diverse the group discussing the problem is, the more comprehensive, sustainable, and creative the solutions are. The time has come for radical thinking, for inclusive problem-solving, for crowd-sourced innovation. We have spent decades leaving people of color out of the environmental movement. It's time that we own our mistakes and get real about our shortcomings. It's long overdue that we intentionally count how many people of color are staffing and leading the professional environmental sector. It's urgent that we bring more voices into the conversation. Or we could let implicit bias and systemic racism undercut any chance we have at a sustainable future. The planet isn't going to wait for us to get this right. It's already far outpacing our efforts to respond to the crisis of climate change. It's time we stop letting it. Whitney Tome is the Executive Director of Green 2.0	True
379	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-10-30	Cooper's order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles, use more wind and solar energy, and cut energy use at state-owned buildings.	"With historic storms lashing our state, we must combat climate change, make our state more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters."	Cooper also asked agencies to promote "climate adaptation" and green energy use, including wind and solar."	Roy Cooper signed an executive order Monday he says is meant to "combat climate change" and "lessen the impact of future natural disasters," like hurricanes.	"So the 'ocean heat wave' theory is obviously bogus."		North Carolina Gov Roy Cooper Says New Green Policies Will 'Lessen The Impact' Of Hurricanes North Carolina Democratic Gov. Roy Cooper signed an executive order Monday he says is meant to "combat climate change" and "lessen the impact of future natural disasters," like hurricanes. Cooper's order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles, use more wind and solar energy, and cut energy use at state-owned buildings. Cooper also asked agencies to promote "climate adaptation" and green energy use, including wind and solar."  strong clean energy economy combats climate change while creating good jobs and a healthy environment," said Cooper. "With historic storms lashing our state, we must combat climate change, make our state more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters." The order comes more than one month after Hurricane Florence dumped record amounts of rainfall over the Carolinas after making landfall as a Category 1 storm. Florence dumped 11 trillion gallons of rain over the Carolinas, causing devastating floods and taking more than 50 lives. Democrats and environmentalists claimed the storm was made worse by man-made global warming. Some scientists said warm waters "supercharged" Florence and sea level rise made storm surge significantly worse. (RELATED: Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado)However, not all scientists agreed. Cato Institute atmospheric scientist Ryan Maue pointed out that Florence formed over "abnormally cool" ocean waters, then weakened over cooler waters — the opposite of what forecasters expected." here is no reason to suggest that global warming or an 'ocean heat wave' supercharged Hurricane Florence," University of Washington climate scientist Cliff Mass said in September. "So the 'ocean heat wave' theory is obviously bogus." The order comes more than one month after Hurricane Florence dumped record amounts of rainfall over the Carolinas after making landfall as a Category 1 storm. Florence dumped 11 trillion gallons of rain over the Carolinas, causing devastating floods and taking more than 50 lives. Democrats and environmentalists claimed the storm was made worse by man-made global warming. Some scientists said warm waters "supercharged" Florence and sea level rise made storm surge significantly worse. (RELATED: Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado)However, not all scientists agreed. Cato Institute atmospheric scientist Ryan Maue pointed out that Florence formed over "abnormally cool" ocean waters, then weakened over cooler waters — the opposite of what forecasters expected." here is no reason to suggest that global warming or an 'ocean heat wave' supercharged Hurricane Florence," University of Washington climate scientist Cliff Mass said in September. "So the 'ocean heat wave' theory is obviously bogus." Mass also said that "most of the major impacts of the storm was because it slowed down near the coast, causing an extended period of rain." He added there's "no credible theory of observational evidence that such slowing down has anything to do with global warming." While scientists predict continued global warming could make future hurricanes more intense, the latest United Nations climate report found that many studies showed a "decreasing trend in the global number of tropical cyclones and/or the globally accumulated cyclonic energy." Cooper, however, says his executive order will make North Carolina "more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters" by putting more electric vehicles on the road and cutting emissions. But even if Cooper's plan achieves its goal of cutting state greenhouse gas emissions, it would have virtually no impact on projected global warming, based on climate model simulations. For example, the Obama administration's pledge to cut U.S. emissions 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 was only projected to avert 0.001 degrees Celsius of projected global warming a year. If that's the impact on future temperatures cutting emissions for the entire country would have, North Carolina's emissions cuts would have an even less significant impact.	False
567	breitbart	questionable_source	2018-07-28	In an interview with the Flash Report this week, Cox said water, housing affordability, and the gas tax are the three main issues he wants to tackle.	Poll: Half of Likely California Voters See Environment as Key Issue in Governor's Race Most also say that water is the most important issue to them in that category.	Meanwhile, the PPIC poll also found that "likely voters see drought and water supply as the top environmental issue facing the state, followed by air pollution; a majority (58%) support a water bond on the November ballot"; and noted that "[a] strong majority of likely voters (69%) say that the effects of global warming have already begun."	every single time we've covered it's been a palpable ratings killer.	According to the poll, which has a 3.4% margin of error, 67% of Democrats, 54% of independents, and 33% of Republicans believe that Democrat Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom and Republican businessman John Cox's views on environmental issues will impact how they vote.		Poll: Half of Likely California Voters See Environment as Key Issue in Governor's Race Most also say that water is the most important issue to them in that category. According to the poll, which has a 3.4% margin of error, 67% of Democrats, 54% of independents, and 33% of Republicans believe that Democrat Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom and Republican businessman John Cox's views on environmental issues will impact how they vote. So far, Newsom holds a 24-point lead over Cox, who beat former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigos in the June primary to proceed to the November general election. Meanwhile, the PPIC poll also found that "likely voters see drought and water supply as the top environmental issue facing the state, followed by air pollution; a majority (58%) support a water bond on the November ballot"; and noted that "[a] strong majority of likely voters (69%) say that the effects of global warming have already begun." In an interview with the Flash Report this week, Cox said water, housing affordability, and the gas tax are the three main issues he wants to tackle. He reportedly blamed "out-of-touch-elites" for the Golden State's water issues, and called Newsom the "poster boy" for these problems. Environmental issues have been a strong point for Newsom, who last year said he would use specific environmental laws in California to stop President Donald Trump's border wall from being built. For all the talk about the importance of environmental issues to voters in the deep blue state of California, the topic does not seem to do well for media outlets — even left-wing ones. Chris Hayes of MSNBC recently said networks mostly try to avoid discussing environmental issues related to the topic of climate change because "almost without exception. every single time we've covered it's been a palpable ratings killer. so the incentives are not great." Adelle Nazarian is a politics and national security reporter for Breitbart News. Follow her on Facebook and Twitter.	False
189	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-04-29	All three are equally important to human wellbeing."	The warning will come from the awkwardly-named IPBES – the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services - a panel studying the benefits of nature to humans.	This option is favoured by fans of re-wilding.	The body, which is meeting this week, aims to get all the world's governments singing from the same sheet about the need to protect natural systems.	Soils are "incredibly important" for our well-being, said Dr Joanna Clark from Reading University."		Soil damage 'set to fuel climate change' Climate change can't be halted if we carry on degrading the soil, a report will say. There's three times more carbon in the soil than in the atmosphere – but that carbon's being released by deforestation and poor farming. This is fuelling climate change – and compromising our attempts to feed a growing world population, the authors will say. Problems include soils being eroded, compacted by machinery, built over, or harmed by over-watering. Hurting the soil affects the climate in two ways: it compromises the growth of plants taking in carbon from the atmosphere, and it releases soil carbon previously stored by worms taking leaf matter underground. The warning will come from the awkwardly-named IPBES – the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services - a panel studying the benefits of nature to humans. The body, which is meeting this week, aims to get all the world's governments singing from the same sheet about the need to protect natural systems. IPBES will formally release its report on Monday 6 May. About 3.2 billion people worldwide are suffering from degraded soils, said IPBES chairman Prof Sir Bob Watson." That's almost half of the world population. There's no question we are degrading soils all over the world. We are losing from the soil the organic carbon and this undermines agricultural productivity and contributes to climate change. We absolutely have to restore the degraded soil we've got." Governments have focused on climate change far more than they have focused on loss of biodiversity or land degradation. All three are equally important to human wellbeing." Soil expert Prof Jane Rickson from Cranfield University, UK, added: "The thin layer of soil covering the Earth's surface represents the difference between survival and extinction for most terrestrial life." Only 3% of the planet's surface is suitable for arable production and 75 billion tonnes of fertile soil is lost to land degradation every year." She said soils form at a rate of 1cm in 300 years. There's uncertainty about the exact level of global soil degradation. But the major hotspots are reported to be in South America, where forests are being felled; sub-Saharan Africa; India and China. Soil scientists in both the biggest Asian nations are worried that their ability to grow their own food may be compromised. In the US, some soils are being restored as forests take over poor quality land previously worked by small farmers, but others are still being degraded. The UK is not immune either. Some maize fields in south-west England suffer major soil loss with heavy rainfall because growing maize leaves bare soil exposed. Heavy rain is more likely under climate change. Erosion is also a long-standing issue in the fertile Fens, where, on dry windy days, peaty soil particles sometimes form a kind of smog called the "Fen Blow". Peat has a high carbon content – and a recent paper suggests there's far more carbon being lost from peatlands than previously thought. And on the chalky hills of southern England, chemical-intensive crop farming is said to have caused the loss of over a foot of soil in some places. Soils are "incredibly important" for our well-being, said Dr Joanna Clark from Reading University." We all know that crops are grown in soil, but soils are important for climate change as well. There's three times more carbon stored in soil than there is in the atmosphere. So imagine if all that carbon was released, we'd get runaway climate change. So we need to keep the carbon in the soil." The simplest way to protect soils while combating climate change is to let forests grow back. This option is favoured by fans of re-wilding. But some farmers believe they can continue to produce food by changing the way they farm to enhance the soil. Brexit could give the UK greater flexibility on how to spend public money on farming - enabling much more leeway to reward farmers for capturing carbon in the earth. But there are more than 700 soil types in the UK alone, so it won't be simple.	False
700	CNN	left_bias	2017-09-13	"To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm; versus helping people, or actually facing the effect of the storm, is misplaced."	What we are focusing on right now is taking care of the folks who survived this disaster who need our immediate help," he said.	We continue to take seriously the climate change, not the cause of it, but the things we observe."	"There's a cyclical nature to a lot of these hurricanes.	Both instead said the focus needs to be on preparedness and resiliency.		Trump administration doesn't want to talk about climate change Last year was the Earth's warmest recorded year, the third year in a row to set a new record for global average temperatures. Rising temperatures are likely to increase the intensity and impact of major storms, scientists say, yet in the wake of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, the Trump administration has resisted talking about climate change at all. Several key administration officials have been on message this week declining to discuss the issue and how to address the causes of global warming and increased greenhouse gas emissions. Mick Mulvaney, the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget, said climate change is a "longer discussion on another day" and a "big topic for the media." I'll be more than happy to have a longer discussion on another day about climate change, man-made climate change," Mulvaney told CNN's Jake Tapper on "The Lead" Wednesday." What we are focusing on right now is taking care of the folks who survived this disaster who need our immediate help," he said. "There's plenty of time later on to have those discussions, and I know we will because climate change is clearly a big topic for the media, but we will continue to focus our attention on the folks who need it right now." Both FEMA administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering in CNN interviews Tuesday whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of hurricanes such as Harvey and Irma. Both instead said the focus needs to be on preparedness and resiliency. "Regardless of what causes disasters, it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences," Long told CNN. "The only way we become resilient as a nation is we have to create that true culture of preparedness among our citizenry, which we do not have, and then we also have to look how we move forward when it comes to infrastructure protection." Duke echoed Long's thoughts on the need for "resiliency," a term frequently used during the administration's storm response. "We live in a changing world, and as the FEMA administrator said, we always have to look at not just the response, but the preparedness and the resilience," said Duke. "And I think it's important that as we come together as a country, we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response, that we are adapting properly." Pushed about whether the administration should also be looking at the cause of the storm, Duke responded "I -- you know, the data, I don't know what it particularly indicates. We haven't had a major storm like this in a quite a while." Duke added that she had to talk to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration about whether the storms were an "anomaly year or a trend year." Global warming will likely cause tropical cyclones to intensify on average globally and add to a larger potential for destruction according to NOAA Tom Bossert, White House adviser on Homeland Security, was equally remiss to talk about the likely causes of the two hurricanes at a White House briefing Monday. "Causality is something outside of my ability to analyze right now," he said. "There's a cyclical nature to a lot of these hurricanes. We continue to take seriously the climate change, not the cause of it, but the things we observe." He added that the White House would have to perform a "trend analysis" in the future -- insinuating that hurricane systems are cyclical and not tied to global warming. President Donald Trump, who pulled the US out of the Paris climate accords earlier this year, has previously called global warming a "hoax." When asked whether Trump's personal opinion on climate change has changed at all, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said, "I don't think that it's changed over the last several weeks," adding that she remains unsure whether the President is reconsidering the Paris deal following the hurricanes. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt told CNN in an interview about Hurricane Irma on Thursday that the time to talk about climate change isn't now -- saying the question was "insensitive." "Here's the issue," Pruitt said. "To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm; versus helping people, or actually facing the effect of the storm, is misplaced." In addition to the administration's efforts to wipe mention of climate change from the federal agency websites, it has proposed cutting EPA funding intended to assist coastal communities in preparing for the impacts of climate change as well as rolled back regulations meant to advise on building against rising sea levels.	False
304	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-09	So it is important to create jobs and activities that generate income, while protecting the environment and helping people to emerge from poverty," he declared.	n a word, there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earth's goods, not only of present generations, but also of those yet to come," he said.	It is also true, however, that, for the peoples concerned, a number of activities harmful to the environment at present ensure their survival.	The pope went on to enumerate his vision of the problem, while also recognizing that many poor people derive their livelihood from activities that threaten the environment."	e are faced not with two separate crises, one environmental and the other social, but rather with one complex crisis which is both social and environmental," he said."		Pope Francis: Loss of Biodiversity Jeopardizes Earth's Future "Your lovely island of Madagascar is rich in plant and animal biodiversity, yet this treasure is especially threatened by excessive deforestation, from which some profit," Pope Francis told authorities and diplomats on Saturday." he deterioration of that biodiversity compromises the future of the country and of the earth, our common home," he warned. The pope went on to enumerate his vision of the problem, while also recognizing that many poor people derive their livelihood from activities that threaten the environment." s you know, the last forests are menaced by forest fires, poaching, the unrestricted cutting down of valuable woodlands," he said. "Plant and animal biodiversity is endangered by contraband and illegal exportation." It is also true, however, that, for the peoples concerned, a number of activities harmful to the environment at present ensure their survival. So it is important to create jobs and activities that generate income, while protecting the environment and helping people to emerge from poverty," he declared. The pontiff tied together social and ecological problems, insisting that the two are intimately intertwined." e are faced not with two separate crises, one environmental and the other social, but rather with one complex crisis which is both social and environmental," he said." n a word, there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earth's goods, not only of present generations, but also of those yet to come," he said. Pope Francis has made the care of the environment a central theme of his six-year pontificate, returning again and again to issues of ecological responsibility, the dangers of carbon emissions, and the scourge of climate change. In 2015, he became the first pope in history to devote an entire encyclical letter to the topic of the environment with the publication of Laudato Si ("Praised Be"), urging Christians to become more ecologically aware. In that text, the pontiff said that the earth "is beginning to look more and more like an immense pile of filth" as "once beautiful landscapes are now covered with rubbish." He also denounced a failure to recycle paper and other resources, while calling climate change "a global problem with grave implications" and "one of the principal challenges facing humanity in our day." Citing "scientific studies," the pontiff said that "most global warming in recent decades is due to the great concentration of greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide, methane, nitrogen oxides and others) released mainly as a result of human activity."	False
99	cnn	left_bias	2019-06-19	We are gathered here today because the American public elected a president with a better approach," EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said Wednesday.	"Unlike the CPP, the ACE rule adheres to the four corners of the Clean Air Act.	They are trying to inflate the cost and lower the benefits in order to justify rules that simply don't make sense under the law."	Instead, the administration says the plan rule "instead empowers states, promotes energy independence, and facilitates economic growth and job creation," the release stated.	"I do not dispute any administration coming in with different policies, but the challenge I think we're facing is they are really changing the rules of the road and not using sound science," McCarthy said.		EPA rolls back Obama-era plan limiting coal-fired power plant emissions The move fulfills part of President Donald Trump's promise to help the coal industry, but will likely face court challenges from environmental groups and several states who see the rollback as detrimental to clean air and efforts to fight the climate crisis. Former President Barack Obama's plan, if implemented, would have prevented 3,600 premature deaths a year, 1,700 heart attacks and 90,000 asthma attacks, according to analysis conducted by the EPA under his tenure. The Obama Clean Power Plan was set to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which contribute to the climate crisis, by up to 32% compared to 2005 levels by the same year." We are gathered here today because the American public elected a president with a better approach," EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said Wednesday. In an initial announcement about the proposal last summer, the Trump EPA labeled Obama's plan as "overly prescriptive and burdensome." Instead, the administration says the plan rule "instead empowers states, promotes energy independence, and facilitates economic growth and job creation," the release stated. RELATED: More coal-fired power plants have closed under Trump than in Obama's first term Democrats are betting big on big plans for 2020 Obama's Clean Power Plan was challenged by several lawsuits from industry groups and conservative-led states. In 2016, the Supreme Court blocked the regulation, but some plants had already started to work on reducing pollution. The new plan, which EPA is calling the Affordable Clean Energy rule, is designed to boost the struggling coal industry but also likely increase carbon emissions nationwide. EPA argues that any comparison to the Obama rule is incongruous because it was never implemented. "The Affordable Clean Energy rule -- ACE -- gives states the regulatory certainty they need to continue to reduce emissions and provide affordable and reliable energy for all Americans," Wheeler said. "Unlike the CPP, the ACE rule adheres to the four corners of the Clean Air Act. EPA sets the best system of emission reductions and then states set the standards of performance." But it's unclear how much the industry can benefit, as it faces competition from cheap natural gas and renewable sources. US coal consumption has plunged 39% to the lowest level in 40 years, according to the US Energy Information Administration. RELATED: America's renewable energy capacity is now greater than coal New York Attorney General Letitia James said her state and others will go to court. "Given its clear violation of the Clean Air Act, I intend to sue the EPA over this "Dirty Power" rule and look forward to collaborating with other states and cities in taking action to protect all Americans from the increasingly disastrous impacts of climate change," James said in a statement. "Connecticut is in close coordination with states across the nation and we are prepared to take legal action to block this measure," the state's attorney general, William Tong. "There is no serious debate -- climate change is a severe threat and we ignore science at our own peril." At a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing last week about the direction of the EPA, former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy -- who finalized the Clean Power Plan under Obama -- said she believes the proposed Affordable Clean Energy rule, as well as other proposed rules the agency has made since Trump took office, undermines "the science and the law in how they're trying to roll back those rules." "I do not dispute any administration coming in with different policies, but the challenge I think we're facing is they are really changing the rules of the road and not using sound science," McCarthy said. "They are not looking at cost benefits. They are trying to inflate the cost and lower the benefits in order to justify rules that simply don't make sense under the law." This story is breaking and will be updated.	False
297	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-02-12	It is not clear how the state will achieve that goal.	He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship.	The mayor said he had challenged the city's Department of Water and Power to come up with an answer: "Instead of saying all the reasons why not, get to a reason as to why."	The plan also aims to provide every American with a guaranteed "job with a family-sustaining wage, adequate family and medical leave, paid vacations, and retirement security to all people."	Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News.		Eric Garcetti Declares 'Green New Deal' in L.A., Cancels Natural Gas Plants; Officials Doubt 'Keeping the Lights On' Instead, the city will look for energy from renewable sources, including wind and solar, he decided." his is the Green New Deal … Not in concept, not in the future, but now," Garcetti said, as quoted by the Los Angeles Times. He made the decision despite the fact that "top staffers have argued in recent months that the gas plants are critical to keeping the lights on in the city," the Times noted. The term "Green New Deal" refers to a bill introduced by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) last week, which proposes moving the entire U.S. economy to renewable energy in the next ten years. The plan also aims to provide every American with a guaranteed "job with a family-sustaining wage, adequate family and medical leave, paid vacations, and retirement security to all people." The bill does not explain how those benefits will be paid for, nor how the renewable energy goals will be achieved, given that renewables currently provide less than 20% of the country's energy. Environmentalists are also opposed to using one of those renewable sources, hydroelectric power, because of concerns about environmental damage caused by dams. California has a law already in place mandating a shift to 100% renewable sources — but by 2045, not 2030. It is not clear how the state will achieve that goal. In his comments, Garcetti slammed natural gas as an energy source: "[N]ow is the time to start the beginning of the end of natural gas." Ironically, the switch from coal to natural gas over the past decade has enabled the U.S. economy to grow while reducing emissions over the long run. "More gas for electricity has been our most effective weapon at combating climate change," wrote RealClearEnergy editor Jude Clemente last year. Garcetti pledged to replace L.A.'s natural gas plants with wind and solar energy, but offered no plans describing how the city would do so, nor whether it would be able to meet the energy needs of an expanding city. Southern California already struggles to provide electricity to consumers during heat waves, when air conditioning use is at a maximum, and prices soar. In addition, utilities have begun shutting down power lines during high winds for fear of starting wildfires. During a natural gas leak in Porter Ranch in 2016, L.A. authorities worried that the temporary closure of one natural gas plant could lead to power outages. Nevertheless, Eric Garcetti was bullish on a future without fossil fuels — even without a plan to replace them. The mayor said he had challenged the city's Department of Water and Power to come up with an answer: "Instead of saying all the reasons why not, get to a reason as to why." Garcetti will leave office in 2022. The first of the three plants to be replaced will be retired in 2024. Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship. He is also the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.	False
878	RT	questionable_source	2017-07-14	ome of these animals also support thriving indigenous Alaska Native cultural and subsistence activities," stated the complaint.	ver the past 30 days BOEM has been carefully evaluating the EP (exploration plan) in accordance with federal law and regulations…[including] site-specific Environmental Assessment…[and] conclude with a Finding of No Significant Impact," BEOM said in a statement.	Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oil's exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012, which led to a series of problems, mistakes and violations of environmental laws.	The lawsuit also argued that Trump's reversal of the ban exceeded his constitutional authority and was thus unlawful.	The Trump administration provided the public only 21 days to review and comment on the exploration plan and only 10 days to comment on scoping for environmental assessment, according to Monsell."		US approves Alaska offshore oil & gas drilling, enraging environmental groups The US arm of a European multinational oil and gas company has been approved to begin exploratory drilling in Alaska's Beaufort Sea. Environmentalists argue the Trump administration doesn't have the authority for such a move and it would endanger land and marine life. The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) gave conditional approval late Wednesday to Eni US, the US subsidiary of the Italian company Eni S.p.A., to drill four exploration wells from Spy Island, an artificial island created in the Beaufort Sea in Alaska. Drilling can only be conducted in the winter months, and is scheduled to begin in December 2017 and end in May 2019, BOEM said. The permit is for preparatory work, and does not authorize Eni to produce oil." ver the past 30 days BOEM has been carefully evaluating the EP (exploration plan) in accordance with federal law and regulations…[including] site-specific Environmental Assessment…[and] conclude with a Finding of No Significant Impact," BEOM said in a statement. The Obama administration banned oil and gas exploration in most of the US's Arctic Ocean and Atlantic Ocean waters last year, but President Donald Trump ordered Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke in April to review the ban with the goal of opening up offshore areas for oil and gas drilling. Eni's lease was due to expire at the end of 2017, according to Kristen Monsell, an attorney for the Center for Biological Diversity. The Trump administration provided the public only 21 days to review and comment on the exploration plan and only 10 days to comment on scoping for environmental assessment, according to Monsell." pproving this Arctic drilling plan at the 11th hour makes a dangerous project even riskier," Monsell told the Guardian. "An oil spill here would do incredible damage, and it'd be impossible to clean up." The Center for Biological Diversity, Greenpeace and REDOIL, a coalition of Alaska native groups, sued the Trump administration on May 3, citing the risk of offshore oil and gas exploration development to local communities and wildlife. The lawsuit also argued that Trump's reversal of the ban exceeded his constitutional authority and was thus unlawful. In the lawsuit, the groups argued the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas are still undeveloped and are home to a rich array of unique wildlife species including polar bears, walruses, whales, seals, other mammals, birds and fish, some of which are classified as threatened or endangered." ome of these animals also support thriving indigenous Alaska Native cultural and subsistence activities," stated the complaint. "Several Arctic mammals, including polar bears and bearded seals, have been listed under the ESA (Endangered Species Act)." The region serves as important nurseries, feeding grounds and transit routes for marine animals. Seismic surveys and drilling activities could cause disruption and threaten wildlife directly. The area is "remote and foreboding," the complaint said. In winter, the seas are covered in ice and shrouded in darkness, it is prone to storms and fog, and there is little infrastructure to support industrial activity, with just small communities, and few jet runways. The region is hundreds of miles from the nearest Coast Guard station. Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oil's exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012, which led to a series of problems, mistakes and violations of environmental laws. During testing in the placid waters of Puget Sound, Shell destroyed its oil spill containment drone. On the way north, its drillship, the Noble Discoverer, dragged its anchor and nearly ran aground while moored near an Alaskan island. Once at the drill site in the Chukchi Sea, Shell had to undertake an emergency maneuver to relocate the drillship to avoid a large ice floe. On its way back from the Beaufort Sea, it lost control of its drilling vessel, the Kulluk, which ran aground in the Gulf of Alaska in severe weather and had to be towed to Seattle, Washington and then scrapped. The US Coast Guard cited the Noble Discoverer for numerous deficiencies after the drilling season, and the EPA determined Shell had violated the Clean Air Act during its drilling efforts and fined the company $1.1 million. Its drilling contractor pleaded guilty to eight felony offenses relating to environmental pollution and safety and agreed to pay $12.2 million in fines.	False
98	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-03-30	But in terms of the American people, they're centrist ideas.	For years, positions in the debate over mainstream climate policies ranged from hard-line denial of climate change on one end to moderate market tweaks on the other.	It's here now, so it's hard to deny."	We have this idea that left ideas are moving and shaking inside the political atmosphere right now.	Instead, she's betting the increasingly visible and deadly effects of climate change will unite a popular base so vast the market fundamentalists in both parties who oppose the kind of New Deal-era, big-government policies needed to match the scope of the climate crisis will fall in line.		Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Defiantly Promises A Green New Deal Congress Can't Refuse Reuters Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) waves at an enthusiastic crowd of hometown supporters, half of whom raised their hands when MSNBC host Chris Hayes, a fellow Bronx native, asked who was from the borough. On Tuesday, four members of the Senate's Democratic caucus joined every Republican in voting to block a resolution staking out what should be in future Green New Deal legislation. On Wednesday, conservatives' leading voice of reason on climate change published a widely shared essay that offered talking points to oppose the Green New Deal without invoking hamburger bans, Stalinism or genocide. On Thursday night, President Donald Trump smeared the Green New Deal as "an extreme, $100 trillion government takeover" at a rally in Michigan, leading the crowd in chants of "AOC sucks." As her allies are readying primary challenges against Democrats who refuse to join the Green New Deal's 100 co-sponsors in Congress, Ocasio-Cortez said, "You don't necessarily have to replace everybody." Instead, she's betting the increasingly visible and deadly effects of climate change will unite a popular base so vast the market fundamentalists in both parties who oppose the kind of New Deal-era, big-government policies needed to match the scope of the climate crisis will fall in line. For years, positions in the debate over mainstream climate policies ranged from hard-line denial of climate change on one end to moderate market tweaks on the other. Democrats regularly introduced bills to put a price on carbon dioxide emissions through a cap-and-trade scheme or a carbon tax. Tax incentives for renewable energy sources like solar and wind enjoyed bipartisan support, yet so too did subsidies for oil and gas production. Then, in October, United Nations scientists forecast average temperatures to increase at least 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit ― a catastrophic spike, likely to cost $54 trillion in damage and countless lives ― unless world governments took unprecedented measures to halve global emissions over the next decade. A month later, a congressionally mandated report by 13 federal agencies confirmed the research. The findings made clear that market fixes alone might have worked in the 1970s, when scientists first understood the climate impacts of burning fossil fuels, but now it's too late. That hasn't helped tamp down opposition from powerful building trades unions that rely on the pipeline and coal train industries for lucrative jobs. Countering the fossil fuel industry's appeal to organized labor is an uphill battle for Green New Deal advocates. Very few renewable energy jobs are unionized, and the steady march of right-to-work laws in red states over the past decade makes it difficult to envision a future in which new industries enjoy the same labor precedents as older ones. Ocasio-Cortez said that was one reason the Green New Deal movement could not abandon its class politics to secure support from avowedly pro-business conservatives." e cannot allow for the fossil fuel jobs to be better, more dignified and higher-waged with stronger labor support behind [them] than new energy jobs," she said. "What I'm tired of is us worrying more about the future of fossil fuels than worry about the future of fossil fuel workers." On Monday, Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) cribbed the Green New Deal's rhetoric harkening to a World War II-level mobilization effort when he proposed a New Manhattan Project for Clean Energy that he said would "double federal funding for energy research" and implement a five-year plan to "create new sources of cheap, clean energy." That same week, Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.), a loyal Trump ally, drafted a nonbinding resolution staking out a "Green Real Deal" that would acknowledge the threat climate change poses to "human health and safety" in "communities across the United States." We have this idea that left ideas are moving and shaking inside the political atmosphere right now. That's true. But they're left in terms of Washington. But in terms of the American people, they're centrist ideas. Heather McGhee, senior fellow at the progressive think tank Demos"A decade of disputation [is] followed now by this incredible uptick of Republicans looking around for solutions," former Rep. Bob Inglis (R-S.C.), whose support for climate action led to his ouster in a primary challenge in 2010, said at the event, where he was the lone Republican. "We've now seen the whites of its eyes. It's here now, so it's hard to deny."	False
308	theduran	questionable_source	2019-06-22	The public: no tests, no international treaties, that will stop it.	Creation of many lakes all over the country to catch and store rain water is a primary objective.	Regarding the price of water.	More studies are needed.	Clean water has a value.		India is drying up. A return of the water wars Chennai is out of water, all 4 reservoirs are dry. More than 8.5 million live in greater Chennai, so it's about the population of greater San Francisco. An India government think tank predicts that by 2030, 600 million Indians won't have sufficient drinking water. It's kind of amazing that they didn't see this coming long ago and plan better. And even 2030 wouldn't help right now, which is what is needed. Rain is the solution, but that's not exactly a sure thing when you are in the middle of a historic drought. Little that can be done right now, except to keep on hauling water in from wherever they can. Many more will follow, in part, because people consider water to be a gift from God. People of India consume lots of water. If the price of water was higher they would consume less and there would be money available to search for new sources of water. The problem is when people think a resource is free and so plentiful that it can never run out that you get situations where it does run out. Clean water has a value. People should be paying what it costs to create and conserve or store fresh water. Regarding the price of water. Pricing will now have to include the risk of drought. The risk of drought is going up rapidly all over the world. I expect that India will need to invest in sea water desalination. That isn't cheap but whatever it costs, those costs have to be passed on to the consumers. The rain and drought situation in India is grim. Most of the Indian cities, towns and villages are reeling under severe water crisis. A tragedy is unfolding in Maharashtra and a money spinning racket for Tanker owners. Drought in more than forth of Maharashtra. Crores of rupees of the tax-payers money will be used for tankers that will cause incredible pollution in the rural areas…. Creation of many lakes all over the country to catch and store rain water is a primary objective. Water balancing between various rivers, the so called "River Linking" Project is the second alternative. Once water is available in every village, the distribution to houses can be taken up as the third step. Traditional systems perhaps might have to be tweeked a little according to the needs and changing times but there is so much to learn from those who came before us. Village Talab system, is one example. When pond of one village was overflowed, water was released for next village on slopes. Rainwater was harvested at home. In Junagadh, Ahmedabad, Cambay cities. I am not sure whether anyone in Tamil Nadu even knows it had a traditional water harvesting system. Similarly, Odisha's traditional 'Kutta and Munda' water harvesting system by an NGO some decades back but I doubt if any university in Odisha is working on it or the State government is trying to revive the dying wisdom. This is true for all other states, barring Karnataka which is trying to bring back the Kalyani water harvesting structures. Reviving traditional water bodies and harvesting systems has been talked for quite sometime but no one seems interested. The largest desalination plant in South Asia is at Chennai, one of two there. It produces 36.5 million cubic meters/year. That's 9.6 billion US gallons. Israel gets the majority of its drinking water from desalination. It has the world's largest plant, at Hadera, producing 127 cubic meters from salt water, plus it looks like it has larger plants as well. That 33.5 billion gallons. Chennai has a large desalination plant, and a smaller one. Their policies are insufficient in many ways. Like what is water used for, etc. Regulations on ground water pumping, etc. I don't know specifics, but do know that if a city this size runs out of water, several people didn't do their jobs. Areas that are dry are becoming drier and those that are wet are getting more rain. But some of them have drier soil due to increased temperatures. The entire region from Syria to Iran has been suffering a drought that has been going on for about 15 years. At some point somebody has to call a spade a spade and accept the fact that the drought is the new normal. Seeding clouds can only bring as much rain as there is water in the atmosphere. Global climate change is, in turn, changing the distribution of where water is accumulating. At the least, we must improve our water distribution systems to mitigate the problem. Seeding is only a short term solution. Build nuclear and desalinate-Although there is no way nuclear can be added fast enough to by itself desalinate drinking water for 600 million by 2030. And India hasn't signed the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. What are the chances India uses geoengineering? The public: no tests, no international treaties, that will stop it. Geoengineering is cheap and not rocket science.A recent study indicates that almost nowhere will suffer under geoengineering. More studies are needed. The most likely is distributing air pollution in the stratosphere.I doubt that India will concern itself with niceties of international cooperation. Or whichever country leads the way. That's why there has been a campaign for more than a decade: test and make treaties. But we were busy.	True
216	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-07-20	In cities, that means millions of units - including those on cars and buses and trains - constantly pushing out heat into the atmosphere.	Officials define extreme heat as a period of two to three days of high heat and humidity with temperatures above 90F (32C).	Crops can also feel the heat.	Asphalt warps and melts.	In cities, the cycle is also exacerbated by all the concrete, asphalt, steel and glass, creating an urban heat island.		Some unexpected consequences of extreme heat This weekend, close to 200 million Americans will face temperatures of 90F (32C) and higher. Add in humidity, and many cities across the East Coast and Midwest will be feeling more like 110F (43C). Heat waves have killed more people on average than any other extreme weather event in the US, according to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). Officials define extreme heat as a period of two to three days of high heat and humidity with temperatures above 90F (32C). On the heels of earth's hottest June on record, the US National Weather Service (NWS) estimates over 100 record-high minimum temperatures could be set as the heat lingers even past sunset. Here's what that sort of heat can do. Air-conditioning is used in 87% of US homes, according to a 2018 report by the US Energy Information Administration (EIA). During heat waves, air conditioning use stresses power grids and can lead to city-wide outages. In cities, that means millions of units - including those on cars and buses and trains - constantly pushing out heat into the atmosphere. Studies have found the extra heat from air-conditioning can raise temperatures by as much as 2C. And when it gets hotter, our thermostats turn lower and the cycle continues. But it goes further than just an ever-hotter summer season - the emissions from air conditioners and their refrigerants is contributing to climate change. The man-made greenhouse gases used in air conditoners, called hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), are thousands of times more potent than carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. In cities, the cycle is also exacerbated by all the concrete, asphalt, steel and glass, creating an urban heat island. When temperatures get too high, planes get grounded. Extreme heat reduces air density and the amount of lift a plane can get to take-off. Temperatures of 120F (49C) saw dozens of flights cancelled in Phoenix during a 2017 heatwave. Smaller planes are affected first, but larger Boeing or Airbus jets have maximum operating temperatures around 126F (52C), AZ Central reported. In a heat wave, concrete and asphalt don't fare well. Asphalt warps and melts. Concrete, if water is involved, can sometimes explode or break open. This week, local media in Kansas has reported several instances of cracked and buckled roads as temperatures rise. In Iowa, one city mayor said old concrete roads soaked with floodwaters from this spring are now exploding and damaging sewer lines. The NWS outpost in Omaha, Nebraska, demonstrated just how hot vehicles can get in heat waves by cooking American biscuits on a dash. The temperatures reached a high of 185F (85C) - not quite enough for a proper bake, but certainly too hot for humans or animals to survive in. According to the National Weather Service, 21 young children have died in hot cars this year. Unsurprisingly, as everything warms up in a heat wave, anything metal gets even hotter. When it comes to power lines, this can cause dangerously low sagging. If lines droop low enough to touch the ground or trees, they can short out. Kinks can form on train rails when the metal expands. In 2012, a "heat kink" caused a 32-car-long freight train to derail and fly off an overpass; a similar derailment happened in 2017. Experts told Fox 26 News more than 2,100 trains have been derailed in the last 40 years because of these heat warps. Metal components in draw-bridges can expand and become inoperable - last year, Chicago firefighters had to hose down a downtown draw-bridge so it could be used. Crops can also feel the heat. Farmers across the Midwest are warning that vegetables can wilt in the heat and farms will lose productivity - worsening the situation after a historic flooding season this spring. Soybean farmers also say the dry conditions could cause an increase in spider mites and other plant diseases. Extreme heat makes pollution worse, which can be dangerous for the very young, the elderly and anyone with respiratory diseases. In the nation's capital, where the mayor has declared a heat emergency, officials warned that air quality would reach unhealthy levels for these sensitive groups over the weekend.	False
382	theblaze	right_bias	2018-08-08	"And while some might disagree with him on a policy approach to an issue, which is what happened at the Montgomery County Town Hall, he will continue to hold similar events for the remainder of the campaign.	If voters want to know Scott's position on an issue they won't have to ambush him outside an event just to get a hold of him, they can come ask him their questions in person.	The 18-year-old activist made a name for herself beyond the Keystone State last month when she questioned Republican gubernatorial nominee Scott Wagner at a town hall on what she said was his lack of action on climate change and donations he received from the fossil fuel industry.	"I'm the girl who's 'young and naive'!	Wagner also asked the Glenside crowd, "Are we here to elect a governor, or are we here to elect a scientist?		PA-Gov: 'Young and naive' climate activist who questioned Wagner confronts Democratic Gov. Wolf Rose Strauss apparently isn't showing favoritism in the race for Pennsylvania governor — at least when it comes to asking candidates about climate change. The 18-year-old activist made a name for herself beyond the Keystone State last month when she questioned Republican gubernatorial nominee Scott Wagner at a town hall on what she said was his lack of action on climate change and donations he received from the fossil fuel industry. And why did Strauss win the internet that day? Well, in a way she has Wagner to thank for that, as he responded by calling Strauss "a little young and naive" on video, which subsequently went viral. Wagner also asked the Glenside crowd, "Are we here to elect a governor, or are we here to elect a scientist?"Wagner in 2017 said climate change is likely occurring — but perhaps because "we have more people. You know, humans have warm bodies. So is heat coming off?" And his campaign has received $163,750 from the oil and gas industry, according to Vote Smart, a nonprofit political watch dog organization, the York Dispatch said. John Fetterman — the running mate for Democratic Gov. Tom Wolf — ripped Wagner on Twitter over his comments toward Strauss. He also used a "Young and Naive" slogan for $25 T-shirts, the York Daily Record reported, while Wolf's campaign announced "free limited edition" stickers using the phrase:It turns out all the T-shirts and stickers in the world immortalizing Wagner's words to her could not impede Strauss from turning her confrontation Wolf's way, as she and activists tried to intercept the governor as he walked into an event last week, the Daily Record said." om Wolf! It's Rose Strauss! It's Rose Strauss, Tom Wolf!" she's heard shouting on video. "I'm the girl who's 'young and naive'!"Strauss then yelled a question at Wolf about the funds his campaign got from the fossil fuel industry — $98,000 during the 2018 election cycle, according to Follow the Money. Strauss said Sunrise Movement Downingtown has twice reached out to Joseph Hill, Wolf's deputy campaign manager and political director, to request a meeting but has yet to receive a response, the Daily Record reported." e has shown support for the young and naive voters," Strauss told the paper, adding that while Wolf has "supported us verbally," the governor hasn't committed to "action on things we care about like climate change." Wolf's campaign declined to say if he'll meet with Strauss and other activists but offered the following statement to the Daily Record:Governor Wolf is committed to protecting and preserving the environment. One of his first acts as governor was to sign an executive order reinstating the moratorium on new leases for drilling in state parks and forests and he has been fighting efforts by Republicans in Washington to cut EPA funding. Governor Wolf worked across party lines with the state legislature, which is heavily Republican, to pass the Chapter 78a Environmental Protection Performance Standards. This bipartisan agreement modernizes and strengthens environmental protections at oil and gas sites in Pennsylvania. He also announced a nation-leading strategy to reduce emissions of methane. Governor Wolf has met with environmentalists throughout the state to discuss ways they could work together to combat climate change and strengthen statewide regulations to ensure the protection of public health, safety, and the environment. He will continue to engage the environmental community throughout the commonwealth to ensure that their voices are heard." cott is having town halls to articulate his positions on the issues to people of all demographics and backgrounds," Wagner campaign spokesman Andrew Romeo told TheBlaze on Wednesday. "And while some might disagree with him on a policy approach to an issue, which is what happened at the Montgomery County Town Hall, he will continue to hold similar events for the remainder of the campaign. If voters want to know Scott's position on an issue they won't have to ambush him outside an event just to get a hold of him, they can come ask him their questions in person. He certainly won't bury his head and keep walking." Wagner has since clarified his "young and naive" comment, noting in a Sunday town hall that he didn't believe it was "mean" and that "I'm 62 years old, and the young lady asking the question was 18. I have a little more experience than she does," the Daily Record reported. "And that wasn't meant to insult her in any way."	True
643	NewsBusters	right_bias	2017-10-05	This might be a trip to discover how different animals blend into their surroundings to hide from predators, how the brain coordinates different parts of the body, or what lies deep under the sea.	However, she's more into data than storytelling, so the kids take a trip to a glacier, allowing her to tell the story of - you guessed it - climate change, which is met with a standing ovation by the audience.	has been asked to join her storyteller parents in telling a story of her own for a crowd.	There is a pretty predictable take on climate change propaganda for little kids, but that wasn't the worst.	In the show, Miss Frizzle takes her class on educational field trips with the help of a magical school bus that allow them to learn about things like magnets, allergies, and states of matter.	I find it hard to believe any parents were happy about this next one, though. <sep> This is what kids are getting excited about? <sep> 	New Magic School Bus to Kids: Use Clean Energy or Monsters Will Eat You The Magic School Bus is back in the new Netflix series The Magic School Bus Rides Again!  Overall, it's still a nice, fun 13-episode series like we remember from when we were kids, but with some left turns. There is a pretty predictable take on climate change propaganda for little kids, but that wasn't the worst. That dubious honor goes to the episode that teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources. In the show, Miss Frizzle takes her class on educational field trips with the help of a magical school bus that allow them to learn about things like magnets, allergies, and states of matter. In the original series, the kids were taught by Miss Valerie Felicity Frizzle (Lily Tomlin), who is now Professor Frizzle. She hands the charge of her classroom over to her sister, Miss Fiona Frizzle (voiced by Saturday Night Live's Kate McKinnon). Most of the episodes are innocuous enough. The kids have a scientific question of some kind in the classroom, and Miss Frizzle takes them to the Magic School Bus where an incredible field trip helps them to understand. This might be a trip to discover how different animals blend into their surroundings to hide from predators, how the brain coordinates different parts of the body, or what lies deep under the sea. But episode 10, "The Tales Glaciers Tell," is the first of two questionable episodes. Miss Frizzle's student Dorothy Ann (also known as D.A.) has been asked to join her storyteller parents in telling a story of her own for a crowd. However, she's more into data than storytelling, so the kids take a trip to a glacier, allowing her to tell the story of - you guessed it - climate change, which is met with a standing ovation by the audience. Really? This is what kids are getting excited about? I doubt it. Of course, conserving energy is a good thing and we should be kind to the earth, but this climate change hysteria is taking over. Usually, somebody will say that 97 percent of climate scientists agree that humans are causing global warming, and I was surprised that figure didn't come up in this episode. Could it be that they know how easily debunked that number is? Given the way Dorothy Ann presented man-made climate change as fact, I doubt it. This issue tends to play incredibly well in the mainstream media, as they use climate change as the universal bad-guy, so I'm sure there were plenty of parents who actually thought this episode was a good idea. I find it hard to believe any parents were happy about this next one, though. Episode 12, "Monster Power," teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources. Albert, one of the students, has seen a movie in which the evil monster loves pollution and is "coming for us next for what we've done to this planet!" With the class camping in the woods, Miss Frizzle and the other students help him come up with clean energy alternatives (wind, water, etc) so they won't be eaten. Instead, Miss Frizzle could tell him that monsters aren't real, but I guess that didn't occur to her. While it makes sense to teach kids the science of pollution and about all kinds of energy (I wouldn't have minded some talk about oil in the dinosaur episode, to be honest), why would they tell kids that a monster will eat them for using the wrong energy source? I may not have the teaching credentials of Miss Frizzle, but I'm pretty sure that's not scientifically accurate. They must really hate fossil fuels as much as their friends on the left. Keeping in mind that the TV-Y rating for this series means it's for kids 2-6, I'm sure there are going to be some parents pretty irked at bedtime when kids are scared of the blot monster. Overall, this is a cute series and fun bit of nostalgia for those of us who enjoyed the original books (or TV series) as kids, but I could have done without the climate change propaganda, and telling kids that traditional energy sources attract monsters is way over the top. Can't kids just learn without an anti-scientific social agenda?	False
718	MotherJones	left_bias	2017-05-15	The other, from 2007, discussed how to survive global warming.	One, published by Newsweek, is a favorite of climate deniers.	Perhaps not surprisingly, his staff seems to share these views.	Scientists have since reached an overwhelming consensus: The planet is getting warmer, and humans are to blame.	In 2007, Time published a cover story titled, "The Global Warming Survival Guide."		Here's a Crazy Story About Donald Trump Falling for an Internet Hoax President Donald Trump has been a climate change denier for years, alleging that global warming is a Chinese invention and declaring that cold winter days prove that it's a hoax. Perhaps not surprisingly, his staff seems to share these views. According to Politico, Deputy National Security Advisor K.T. McFarland recently tried to get Trump riled up about climate change with a bit of fake news. McFarland reportedly slipped Trump two Time magazine cover stories. One was supposedly from the 1970s and warned about a coming ice age. The other, from 2007, discussed how to survive global warming. But there was one glaring problem: The 1970s cover was a hoax. In 2007, Time published a cover story titled, "The Global Warming Survival Guide." Sometime after that, internet hoaxers doctored the cover to instead say "How to Survive the Coming Ice Age" and alleged that it was a 1977 cover. The hoax spread quickly, and climate deniers used it to argue that in the 1970s, scientists were actually worried about global cooling—and since it didn't happen then, the public shouldn't believe warnings about global warming now. The hoax seems to have had its intended effect on Trump, who, according to Politico, "quickly got lathered up about the media's hypocrisy." A White House official defended McFarland in an interview with Politico, calling the Time hoax "fake but accurate." The White House didn't respond to a request for comment from Mother Jones. While the Time global cooling cover story never existed, it's certainly true that some media outlets, including Time, ran stories in the 70s warning about global cooling. One, published by Newsweek, is a favorite of climate deniers. Scientific American explained Newsweek's global cooling story in 2014:But global cooling was never a popular theory among scientists. Even as some news outlets were writing about it, notes Scientific American, a counter theory about a warming planet was already on the rise. In fact, a survey of peer-reviewed scientific papers from 1969 to 1975 shows that the majority of scientists predicted that carbon dioxide levels would rise, causing temperatures to rise as well. Scientists have since reached an overwhelming consensus: The planet is getting warmer, and humans are to blame. But this hasn't stopped climate deniers from citing the old stories as evidence that contemporary news reports about climate change shouldn't be believed. This climate denier, for example:	False
498	bbc	left_center_bias	2018-11-22	With Chinese workers and Serbian workers, at the beginning we had some cultural problems but we have overcome them and there is now very good cooperation."	All this affects the health of people living here, many of whom have respiratory diseases," he said.	Contracts and financing for these facilities are often not fully transparent but campaign groups including Bankwatch have tried to keep track."	Equipment and shipping containers carry Chinese labels.I ask the EPS official running the project, Zeljko Lazovic, what he feels about such a large and important venture being in the hands of Chinese engineers and workers."	"Decades," Mr Markovic says.		China-backed coal projects prompt climate change fears As levels of greenhouse gases reach a new record, concerns are growing about the role of China in global warming. For years, the increase in the number of Chinese coal-fired power stations has been criticised. Now environmental groups say China is also backing dozens of coal projects far beyond its borders. Coal is the most damaging of the fossil fuels because of the quantity of carbon dioxide it releases when it's burned. Last year, the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere reached its highest level for the past 3-5 million years, according to the latest research by the UN's weather agency, the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO). And last month the UN's climate science panel said that coal must be phased out by 2050 if the world is to have any chance of limiting the rise in temperatures. The Chinese-supported coal projects are under way or planned as far afield as South America, Africa, southeast Asia and the Balkans. Contracts and financing for these facilities are often not fully transparent but campaign groups including Bankwatch have tried to keep track." You cannot be a world leader in curbing air pollution and at the same time the world's biggest financier of overseas coal power plants," the group's energy coordinator Ioana Ciuta told the BBC. According to Ms Ciuta, efforts to tackle the dirty air of Chinese cities have led many power companies to limit their ambitions for coal-fired power stations in China itself and to target their technology and labour overseas instead." By having China invest in over 60 countries along the Belt and Road Initiative, it's perpetuating a source of pollution that has been demonstrated to be harmful not just to the climate but also to economies," she said. In Serbia, one of the country's largest coal-fired power stations is being expanded with the help of a loan from a Chinese bank and with the work being led by one of China's largest construction companies. An hour's drive east of the capital Belgrade, in the coal-rich Danube valley, construction has already started at the site, known as Kostolac B3. An existing power station towers over the rolling landscape, a steady stream of pollution twisting from a massive smokestack, and conveyor belts ferry coal from a nearby open-cast mine at Drmno. The power station is run by the national Serbian electricity company, EPS, which provides about 70% of the country's power by burning coal - the rest comes from hydro-electric schemes. Now, under a $715m (£560m) contract agreed by the Serbian government and Chinese President Xi Jinping, an extra unit is being added, which will bring 350MW of additional capacity with the latest "super-critical" technology. When we visit, we catch a brief glimpse of a group of Chinese workers wearing hard hats on their way from the construction site to a vast set of accommodation blocks - by next year, some 1,500 Chinese staff will be here. Safety signs and notice boards are written in Serbian and Chinese. Equipment and shipping containers carry Chinese labels.I ask the EPS official running the project, Zeljko Lazovic, what he feels about such a large and important venture being in the hands of Chinese engineers and workers." In the next few months a lot of Chinese will come here and this will be a big challenge," he says." With Chinese workers and Serbian workers, at the beginning we had some cultural problems but we have overcome them and there is now very good cooperation." When asked about the environmental cost of the new project, Mr Lazovic insisted it would meet all the EU's standards on pollution by dust, nitrogen dioxide and sulphur. However, the new unit will not be fitted with any carbon capture technology so it will fit into a pattern of Chinese-backed projects that will add to carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere. Christine Shearer is an analyst with the group CoalSwarm, which tracks coal developments, and she is scathing about the implications." These projects are not compatible with limiting global warming to 1.5C or 2C," she said, referring to the two targets of the Paris Agreement on climate change. She says that Chinese financial institutions are filling a gap left by Western banks and agencies deciding to limit their involvement in coal." These projects, if completed, will lock the countries into high carbon-emitting infrastructure and volatile coal imports precisely at a time when prices for clean energy are starting to fall below that of coal power." We tried to contact the Export-Import Bank of China, which is providing the loan, and the China Machinery Engineering Corporation, which is leading the construction, but did not hear back. For the Serbian power company, EPS, the attraction of a local supply of coal has combined with a cheap Chinese loan and the prospects of valuable exports of electricity. About 3,500 jobs depend on the Kostolac complex but some local people have become increasingly outspoken about the pollution in the area. Momir Savic showed me how the conveyor belts carrying coal run close to the villages and he fears a further expansion of the operation." The quality of our air and water is very poor. We cannot grow fruit and vegetables. There is also a lot of noise. All this affects the health of people living here, many of whom have respiratory diseases," he said. EPS says it is spending hundreds of millions of euros on environmental protection but its track record clearly does not inspire trust. Pera Markovic, a lawyer with Cekor, an environmental group, is critical of the company's failure to limit pollution in the local area. But he concedes that Serbia is heavily dependent on coal for its power. For how long? "Decades," Mr Markovic says. That's likely to be the same in many other countries too, whatever climate scientists say is needed.	False
19	thedailycaller	right_bias	2019-02-22	"We hope it will serve as an analytical template going forward."	org.	LaFleur, for example, called on FERC to factor in estimates, like the controversial "social cost of carbon," for a cost-benefit analysis.	hese are decisions that impact the president's ability to make foreign policy decisions," Brouillette told TheDCNF.	e have been promoting US energy around the world and today's decision by the FERC is a very important one," DOE Deputy Secretary Dan Brouillette told The Daily Caller News Foundation in an interview.		Late-Night Deal Breaks Deadlock Over Natural Gas Exports. The Trump Administration Is Ecstatic The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) broke a two-year partisan deadlock Thursday night to approve a liquefied natural gas (LNG) export terminal in Louisiana. Top Department of Energy (DOE) officials said this was a major breakthrough that will alleviate a growing problem for U.S. energy producers — a lack of export infrastructure." e have been promoting US energy around the world and today's decision by the FERC is a very important one," DOE Deputy Secretary Dan Brouillette told The Daily Caller News Foundation in an interview. (RELATED: US Oil Output Hits 12 Million Barrel-A-Day Milestone Way Ahead Of Schedule)The Calcasieu Pass LNG export terminal is the first such project to get FERC approval in two years. Republican FERC commissioners Neil Chatterjee, the chairman and Bernard McNamee worked with Democrat Cheryl LaFleur to hash out an agreement to get her support. Chatterjee and McNamee needed LaFleur's vote to approve Calcasieu Pass, which they secured after working out a new approach to account for greenhouse gas emissions from the export facility." his is a tremendous breakthrough," DOE Under Secretary of Energy Mark Menezes told TheDCNF. "We hope it will serve as an analytical template going forward." Once complete, Calcasieu Pass terminal will export up 12 million metric tons of LNG a year. Brouillette said the project already has buyers, including in Europe, waiting for American natural gas. Hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling spurred an oil and natural gas boom over the past decade, making the U.S. the world's top hydrocarbon producer. However, a limiting factor on oil and gas is the lack of export terminals and pipelines. Menezes said breaking FERC's deadlock was also an important step in helping DOE improve its own LNG terminal approval process, including "making sure there's no duplicative reviews." Getting approval to build an LNG export terminal is a long, complicated process that requires approval from multiple agencies. FERC currently has a backlog of a dozen LNG projects awaiting approval. (RELATED: Obama EPA Regulations Blamed For Closure Of 100-Year-Old Coal Plant)The Trump administration has been pushing for speedier approvals for LNG terminals, but FERC has been holding up the process amid pressure from environmental groups to factor global warming into its approval process. LaFleur, for example, called on FERC to factor in estimates, like the controversial "social cost of carbon," for a cost-benefit analysis. However, LaFleur agreed to compromise with her Republican colleagues. FERC's other Democratic commissioner Richard Glick opposed the terminal, arguing his colleagues were "deliberately ignoring the consequences that its actions have for climate change." The commission's environmental review of Calcasieu Pass found the facility would emit roughly 3.9 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions a year — about 0.07 percent of total U.S. emissions. Brouillette argued that while an individual LNG export terminal would emit greenhouse gases, it would help lower global emissions because countries want gas as an alternative to coal." o the extent that LNG is displacing coal around the world, we think the impact is going to be positive," Brouillette said. Brouillette also stressed the geopolitical implications of LNG exports and the role energy could play in President Donald Trump's foreign policy." hese are decisions that impact the president's ability to make foreign policy decisions," Brouillette told TheDCNF. "We get to assist Poland, we get to assist Lithuania, we get to assist the Baltic states." Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
769	Yahoo News	left_center_bias	2017-05-31	"Mr. Trump believes that because he doesn't get close enough to the dossiers to fully understand them."	Amid talk of combating terrorism and the global economy, they also discussed international efforts to fight climate change.	The American Meteorological Society released a statement that read in part: "It is clear from extensive scientific evidence that the dominant cause of the rapid change in climate of the past half century is human-induced increases in the amount of atmospheric greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide (CO ), chlorofluorocarbons, methane and nitrous oxide."	We wouldn't participate in meetings and we'd just be there as an observer," he said.	"We tried to explain that to Mr. Trump in Taormina in clear German sentences.		European Commission head says Trump doesn't understand how Paris Agreement works European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said President Trump doesn't seem to understand that he can't immediately yank the United States out of the Paris Agreement on climate change." hat's not how it works. The Americans can't just leave the climate protection agreement," Juncker said Wednesday, according to a translation from NBC News. "Mr. Trump believes that because he doesn't get close enough to the dossiers to fully understand them." Reports circulated Wednesday that Trump had decided to withdraw from the international pact — which has been signed by every country in the world except Nicaragua and Syria — but as of late afternoon there was no formal announcement. Juncker, the former prime minister of Luxembourg, has been leading the European Commission, the civil service of the European Union's executive branch in Brussels, since November 2014. During a student conference on Europe's future, he explained that the United States would have to wait three to four years after the agreement took effect in November 2016 before leaving. Juncker and European Council President Donald Tusk represented the European Union at last week's Group of Seven (G7) summit in Taormina, a small town in Sicily. They met with leaders from the seven democracies with the world's most developed economies: Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States. Amid talk of combating terrorism and the global economy, they also discussed international efforts to fight climate change. These conversations come at a particularly fraught time because Trump, who does not share his predecessor Barack Obama's commitment to clean energy, has been reviewing the United States' environmental policies. According to a translation from NBC News, Juncker said that they attempted to explain to Trump that he could not simply pull the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement because the treaty contains safeguards to prevent exactly that." o this notion, 'I am Trump, I am American, America first and I'm going to get out of it' — that won't happen," he continued. "We tried to explain that to Mr. Trump in Taormina in clear German sentences. It seems our attempt failed." He said that "the law is the law" and it must be obeyed regardless of what Trump thinks, adding somewhat sardonically that not everything in international agreements is fake news. On Wednesday morning, Axios published a report citing two sources with "direct knowledge of the decision" that Trump was planning to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement. Shortly after the news spread, Trump tweeted that he would be announcing his decision regarding the international agreement within the next few days. Later Wednesday, during a meeting with Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc of Vietnam at the White House, Trump dodged a question about whether he still thinks that climate change is a hoax. When asked if he was "leaning in a direction" concerning Paris, Trump simply said, "I'm hearing from a lot of people both ways." Many scientific organizations have released statements or reports affirming that anthropogenic climate change is real and that it could have devastating effects if actions are not taken to limit carbon dioxide emissions. The American Meteorological Society released a statement that read in part: "It is clear from extensive scientific evidence that the dominant cause of the rapid change in climate of the past half century is human-induced increases in the amount of atmospheric greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide (CO ), chlorofluorocarbons, methane and nitrous oxide." Dan Bodansky, a law professor at Arizona State University and a leading climate change expert, explained that Trump could get the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement two different ways: withdrawing from the Paris Agreement itself or leaving the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The text of Paris Agreement allows for countries to provide a year's notice of its intent to withdraw. But this notice cannot be submitted until three years after the agreement entered into force for that country, which happened in November 2016. "Whether the U.S. decides to pull out or not, under international law and the Paris Agreement, the withdrawal would not be effective until 2020," Bodansky told Yahoo News. Another option, which would get the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement in just one year, would be to leave UNFCCC, which was an agreement brokered under former President George H.W. Bush in the early '90s. Although this would be faster, it would carry even more serious consequences. Bodansky said that leaving the UNFCCC would automatically get the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement as well. "If we pulled out of both then we wouldn't be a party at all. We wouldn't participate in meetings and we'd just be there as an observer," he said. "Both of them would be viewed very negatively by other countries — by allies in Europe and elsewhere — but pulling out of the Framework Convention would be an even more drastic step." Trump goes after 'negative press covfefe' in botched midnight tweet Duck! Treasury will hit debt limit soon unless Congress votes to raise it	False
202	cnbc	left_center_bias	2019-07-31	"The climate is changing.	That's just common sense."	"Common sense tells you, bring the cleaner burning fuels, bring the things that bring the emissions down.	We're going to address the climate.	I'll let people debate on who's the bigger problem here."		Energy secretary contradicts Trump, says humans do play a role in causing climate change Energy Secretary Rick Perry, veering from the Trump administration message on climate change, told CNBC on Wednesday he believes that human activity does play a role."I'm on the record as saying the climate is changing. Man, it's been changing forever. Where have you been?" Perry said in a "Squawk Box" interview when pressed on what causes climate change. "The climate is changing. Are we part of the reason? Yeah, it is. I'll let people debate on who's the bigger problem here." Perry did not quantify whether man-made greenhouse gases associated with climate change, such as carbon dioxide emissions from burning gasoline and coal or methane releases from natural gas and oil production, are the main problem or even whether they're causing the immediate and growing crisis that Democrats contend. However, Perry did say that it's still worth developing zero-emissions technology and that the Trump administration has made great strides in cleaner energy solutions." We're going to address the climate. It makes sense for us to have policies that reduce emissions, that reduce the pollutants that are in the air, to reduce the particles that cause massive health problems around the world," he said. "Common sense tells you, bring the cleaner burning fuels, bring the things that bring the emissions down. That's just common sense." Perry said the administration is reducing emissions — claiming without evidence or specificity that countries in the Paris climate agreement, with "their hair on fire" when President Donald Trump announced his intention to pull out two years ago, are not doing as much as the U.S. Trump has repeatedly over the years expressed skepticism about the role humans play in climate change. In 2017, then-Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt told CNBC he does not believe carbon dioxide is a primary contributor. On Monday, Trump talked about his administration's environmental record, saying America can lead the world in fighting pollution at the same time it promotes fossil fuels. Since taking office, Trump has dismantled scores of environmental rules. The U.S. has become the world's biggest oil and gas producer over the last couple of years, thanks mainly to a technology-led drilling boom. During the first round of the second Democratic presidential debate on Tuesday evening, the 2020 hopefuls on the stage all agreed on the need to urgently address climate change, but clashed over how to do it. They also talked about their own proposals to curb what they see as the man-made causes, as well as the merits of the Green New Deal, unveiled in February by Democrats New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey.	False
96	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-07-30	Amid the gleaming towers of automotive giants whose vehicles now spew the majority of America's climate-changing gases, the demonstrators called for a future in which the health of the planet and its people guides industrial planning and in which the Motor City sheds its association with combustion engines."	It's not going to be fully ready until it begins to reflect the kind of environmental and energy issues that our people are concerned about," said Darryl Jordan, 65, the co-director of the East Michigan Environmental Action Council.	The three-word slogan surged into America's political lexicon last November when activists with the youth-led Sunrise Movement occupied then-incoming House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office, demanding Democrats champion climate policy that actually matches the scope of the crisis.	Ahead of the march, musicians and activists took a makeshift stage in Cass Park, a historic green space where last month's record heatwave left the grass crisp and brown, and led crowds chanting "build a new economy" and "invest in our community."	The Frontline Detroit Coalition, the alliance of a dozen local environmental groups and unions who organized Tuesday's march, struck a markedly different tone.		Detroiters March For Green New Deal Ahead Of Democratic Debate DETROIT ― Theresa Landrum survived her battle with cancer. But her parents didn't. Neither did at least 10 other people who lived on her block. Such is life and death in the 48217, Michigan's most polluted ZIP code ― home to automotive plants, the state's only oil refinery and more than 8,200 mostly working-class African Americans. On Tuesday, Landrum, a retired General Motors factory worker, marched downtown with as many as 2,000 fellow Detroiters to the steps of the Fox Theatre, where 10 Democratic presidential hopefuls were scheduled to face off in the second round of primary debates. The protest marked one of the most confrontational demands for a Green New Deal in months, as local groups took up the mantle from national climate campaigners, which have shifted their efforts to focus on demanding a climate-only Democratic primary debate. Amid the gleaming towers of automotive giants whose vehicles now spew the majority of America's climate-changing gases, the demonstrators called for a future in which the health of the planet and its people guides industrial planning and in which the Motor City sheds its association with combustion engines." e are being robbed and pillaged by industry," Landrum said, her voice rising to a preacher's righteous crescendo. "Then you know what we get? A few job promises, and they get to pollute as much as they want." The three-word slogan surged into America's political lexicon last November when activists with the youth-led Sunrise Movement occupied then-incoming House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office, demanding Democrats champion climate policy that actually matches the scope of the crisis. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) took heed. In February, she and Sen. Ed Markey (D-Mass.) introduced a resolution that outlined the core tenets of a Green New Deal. Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren's growing inventory of policy proposals includes plans to decarbonize the military by 2030, halt fossil fuel leasing on public lands, and put new restrictions on businesses' ability to influence lawmakers. California Sen. Kamala Harris, the only candidate to bring up the Green New Deal in the first round of debates, co-sponsored a climate justice bill with Ocasio-Cortez this week that lays the groundwork for federal climate spending to benefit poor, minority communities who disproportionately suffer the impacts of pollution. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who has yet to release a comprehensive climate plan, has positioned himself as the standard-bearer of former President Franklin D. Roosevelt's economic ideals, and a vocal proponent of the Green New Deal movement. Climate change received a combined 15 minutes of airtime during last month's debates in Miami ― woefully insufficient given the scope of the crisis, but significant progress for an issue that was virtually ignored in the 2016 election. But because the events were held in a city threatened by rising sea levels, debate questions focused on the magnitude of the global warming crisis and the risks posed by runaway emissions. The Frontline Detroit Coalition, the alliance of a dozen local environmental groups and unions who organized Tuesday's march, struck a markedly different tone. If Miami is a city in need of salvation from rising seas, Detroit, in their vision, could be the savior. Ahead of the march, musicians and activists took a makeshift stage in Cass Park, a historic green space where last month's record heatwave left the grass crisp and brown, and led crowds chanting "build a new economy" and "invest in our community." The Green New Deal is a platform, an empty box. It's not going to be fully ready until it begins to reflect the kind of environmental and energy issues that our people are concerned about," said Darryl Jordan, 65, the co-director of the East Michigan Environmental Action Council. "We're not in a state where the differences between Democrats and Republicans are that radical." If there is poetry in demanding a Green New Deal in the city that birthed the automotive age, the city's union legacy gives the call real teeth. Powerful construction unions that depend on the fossil fuel industry for lucrative jobs have publicly opposed the Green New Deal, though the movement has garnered growing labor support, including an official endorsement from the Service Employees International Union last month.	True
708	CNN	left_bias	2017-10-10	"It is a key element in continuing the progress moving toward clean energy and retiring coal."	"Now the public has an opportunity to weigh in, as EPA is required to accept public comment on the proposed repeal and a discussion paper on a replacement," Rhea Suh, president of the Natural Resources Defense Council, said in a statement Monday.	"The past administration was using every bit of power and authority to use the EPA to pick winners and losers and how we generate electricity in this country.	"As much as we want to see progress made with clean air and clean water, with an understanding that we can also grow jobs, we have to do so within the framework of what Congress has passed," Pruitt said.	"The EPA welcomes comment on the legal interpretation addressed in this proposed rulemaking."		EPA Administrator Pruitt announces withdrawal of Clean Power Plan While speaking in Kentucky at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Pruitt said he will sign the proposed rule repealing Obama's plan Tuesday." When you think about what that rule meant, it was about picking winners and losers. Regulatory power should not be used by any regulatory body to pick winners and losers," he said at the event. "The past administration was using every bit of power and authority to use the EPA to pick winners and losers and how we generate electricity in this country. That's wrong." Under the interpretation proposed in this notice, the CPP exceeds the EPA's statutory authority and would be repealed," the proposal reads. "The EPA welcomes comment on the legal interpretation addressed in this proposed rulemaking." The proposal also says the EPA has yet to determine whether it will create an additional rule on the regulation of greenhouse gases. first reported on the repeal proposal. first reported on the repeal proposal. Bloomberg News first reported on the repeal proposal. The Clean Power Plan requires states to meet specific carbon emission reduction standards based on their individual energy consumption. The plan also includes an incentive program for states to get a head start on meeting standards on early deployment of renewable energy and low-income energy efficiency. Under President Barack Obama, the EPA estimated the Clean Power Plan could prevent 2,700 to 6,600 premature deaths and 140,000 to 150,000 asthma attacks in children. When asked earlier this year on Fox News about the health consequences of doing away with the Clean Power Plan, Pruitt ducked the question and focused on how the plan would cost jobs. He argued the plan was bureaucratic overreach. "As much as we want to see progress made with clean air and clean water, with an understanding that we can also grow jobs, we have to do so within the framework of what Congress has passed," Pruitt said. Former EPA employees have reacted harshly to the planned repeal of the rule. Obama's EPA administrator, Gina McCarthy, called the proposal "just plain backwards." "A proposal to repeal the Clean Power Plan without any time line or even a commitment to propose a rule to reduce carbon pollution, isn't a step forward, it's a wholesale retreat from EPA's legal, scientific and moral obligation to address the threats of climate change," McCarthy said in a statement Friday. Environmental advocacy groups quickly blasted Pruitt's decision, with many vowing to fight the measure in court. "Now the public has an opportunity to weigh in, as EPA is required to accept public comment on the proposed repeal and a discussion paper on a replacement," Rhea Suh, president of the Natural Resources Defense Council, said in a statement Monday. "In addition, NRDC expects to take EPA to court when the Clean Power Plan repeal is made final." When reports of the EPA's planned move began to be reported over the weekend, Environmental Defense Fund President Fred Krupp said repealing the plan without replacing it with any protections from "climate-destabilizing pollution" would fail to protect Americans from harmful pollution designated under the Clean Air Act. And Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, said Trump and Pruitt are launching "one of the most egregious attacks" on public health and climate safety. "No matter who is in the White House, the EPA is legally required to limit dangerous carbon pollution, and the Clean Power Plan is an achievable, affordable way to do that," Brune said in a Monday news release. "It is a key element in continuing the progress moving toward clean energy and retiring coal." Former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg, whose philanthropy said it would donate $15 million toward supporting operations of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change after the Trump administration announced intentions to withdraw from the Paris climate accord, tweeted his criticism of the repeal proposal Monday. "The EPA can repeal the Clean Power Plan but not the laws of economics," Bloomberg tweeted. "This won't revive coal or stop the US from reaching our Paris goal."	False
148	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-02-22	twitter.	pic.	His run-ins with climate science were repeatedly highlighted in responses to the retweet by thefirst daughter and senior White House adviser.	— merryterry (@merryterry1) February 21, 2019	Ivanka Trump Retweets Praise Of Administration As 'Driver For Science,' Twitter Gags ﻿Ivanka Trump on Thursday retweeted a White House message hailing the administration as a "driver for science" — and Twitter was agog.		Ivanka Trump Retweets Praise Of Administration As 'Driver For Science,' Twitter Gags ﻿Ivanka Trump on Thursday retweeted a White House message hailing the administration as a "driver for science" — and Twitter was agog. The initial tweet was posted the White House Office of Science and Technology after it issued a report titled "Science & Technology Highlights in the Second Year of the Trump Administration." On Wednesday, The Washington Post reported that Trump was convening a panel, the Presidential Committee on Climate Security, "to question the findings of federal scientists and experts on climate change" and counter red-alert warnings from the scientific community. President Donald Trump's pick to head the committee, William Happer, once compared the "demonization" of CO2 to how Jews were characterized in Nazi Germany. Happer, who has no experience in climatology, has said having higher atmospheric carbon dioxide levels is beneficial. Trump said late last year that he didn't believe a dire report by federal agencies about climate change, declaring, "We're the cleanest we've ever been." His run-ins with climate science were repeatedly highlighted in responses to the retweet by thefirst daughter and senior White House adviser. For the past two years, the Trump Administration has been an active and meaningful driver for science and technology policy in America. pic. twitter. com/JQkiWI4Dx2 — White House OSTP (@WHOSTP) February 21, 2019Donald Trump has: said he will pull the US out of the Paris international climate agreement! taken steps to cut back the US Environmental Protection Agency & is on record saying that global warming is a hoax invented by the Chinese to attack US manufacturing...... — Dawn Amos meh my dogs are the boss of me (@rookney) February 21, 2019You can't believe science in a selective manner and claim to be pro-science. That is hypocrisy. — Robert Johnson (@robertjohnson11) February 21, 2019When you continue to deny climate science you can't make the claim that you are a driver of science policy. No more gaslighting. — merryterry (@merryterry1) February 21, 2019	False
345	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-08-04	org.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The law was passed with the intention of aiding in climate change efforts.	It's not immediately clear how the Trump administration will handle the RFS debate moving forward.	Essentially, the study found that biofuel mandates are boosting production of corn and soybeans.		EPA Released A Long-Delayed Report Showing Ethanol Hurts The Environment An extensive report from the Environmental Protection Agency found that including ethanol into the U.S. gas supply is wreaking havoc on the atmosphere and soil. In a study titled "Biofuels and the Environment: The Second Triennial Report to Congress," the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) determined that ethanol derived from corn and soybeans is causing serious harm to the environment. Water, soil and air quality were all found to be adversely affected by biofuel mandates." vidence since enactment of [the Energy Independence and Security Act] suggests an increase in acreage planted with soybeans and corn, with strong indications from observed changes in land use that some of this increase is a consequence of increased biofuel production," read a portion of the 159-page report. The ethanol mandate has negatively effected water quality, with greater biofuel production resulting in more harmful algae blooms and hypoxia. While most algae is harmless to water, some forms — such as the kind produced in Lake Eerie from biofuel feedstock — has emitted toxic chemicals into the water. This harmful algae can consume the oxygen in the water, a process known as hypoxia, killing other wildlife. Increased irrigation — fueled by growing demand for ethanol — has also taken a toll on the ground, with the report finding "grassland-to-annual-crop conversion negatively impacts soil quality because it increases erosion and the loss of soil nutrients." Essentially, the study found that biofuel mandates are boosting production of corn and soybeans. Large-scale production of these crops is causing environmental degradation. The EPA also found that — at least in some instances — using ethanol in lieu of gasoline resulted in worse air emissions." A]ir quality modeling suggests that production and use of ethanol as fuel to displace gasoline is likely to increase such air pollutants as PM2.5, ozone, and SOx in some locations," read a section of the report pertaining to air quality. While traditional gasoline contains more CO2, ethanol-based fuels have more nitrogen oxides (NOx), which can be more harmful to human health. NOx can exacerbate asthma by causing inflammation of the respiratory airwaves, with long-term exposure resulting in decreased lung functionThe mandate in reference concerns the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), a 2005 law that requires oil refineries include a certain amount of ethanol in their fuel mix. The law was passed with the intention of aiding in climate change efforts. The RFS has proven to be controversial, with oil producers deriding the mandate as costly and unneeded. Corn growers, however, support the mandate as it drives demand for the product. (RELATED: New EPA Chief Will Continue Scott Pruitt's War With The Corn Lobby)During his time leading the EPA, Scott Pruitt became an adversary of ethanol proponents after granting more RFS waivers and pushing for a rollback of the law altogether. It's not immediately clear how the Trump administration will handle the RFS debate moving forward. Acting EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler has suggested he will continue seeking changes to the mandate, but President Donald Trump told an Iowa crowd in July that the EPA may soon allow for more ethanol to be included in gas. The EPA study, published on June 29, came after a long delay. Federal law calls for the EPA to conduct a study on the Renewable Fuel Standard every three years, but the government was four years late this go-around. The agency's previous ethanol study was published in 2011. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
4	foxnews	right_bias	2019-04-30	Where does he get off thinking he's going to stop human progress?"	O'Rourke also said that he wanted people in the fossil fuel industry to act as partners in reaching his goal."	Watters asked.	"He's a scam artist, and everybody knows it.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPHe went on to speculate that O'Rourke pushed his climate plan because he felt "guilty" about the American economy's success because "he and other liberals have not had enough input in it.		Watters on Beto's climate plan: He's a 'scam artist' who feels guilty about America's economic success "The Five" co-host Jesse Watters had some tough words for 2020 hopeful Beto O'Rourke after the former Texas representative proposed a $5 trillion climate change plan alongside the claim that the United States only had 10 years left to address the issue." If someone calls you on the phone and says you're going to die in ten years unless you give me all your money, that's a scam," Watters said. "He's a scam artist, and everybody knows it."O'Rourke asserted his controversial, 10-year prediction while appearing on MSNBC on Monday. He told host Chris Hayes that he sought to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. During that appearance, he indicated that he would have to make himself an opponent of the oil and gas industries' interests. "We know that certain oil and gas corporations have been fighting public policy on this issue, have been hiding their own science and research at the expense of our climate and human life," he said. OCASIO-CORTEZ CALLS CLIMATE CHANGE OUR 'WORLD WAR II,' WARNS THE WORLD WILL END IN 12 YEARS"So whenever those two things come in contrast or in opposition, I'm always going to choose the people of this country." O'Rourke also said that he wanted people in the fossil fuel industry to act as partners in reaching his goal." You have a $21 trillion U.S. economy, the fossil fuel industry runs this economy, it's created all of this wealth, revolutionized transportation, communications, industry, lifted people out of poverty," Watters said." Beto, who's done nothing except lose to [Sen.] Ted Cruz, [R-Texas], comes up and says I'm going to take $5 trillion and I'm going to reverse everything and change it all. He's no Einstein, he's no Carnegie. Where does he get off thinking he's going to stop human progress?" Watters asked. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPHe went on to speculate that O'Rourke pushed his climate plan because he felt "guilty" about the American economy's success because "he and other liberals have not had enough input in it."O'Rourke's program was an ambitious endeavor similar to Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's, D-N.Y., "Green New Deal," which many saw as too expensive and unrealistic. When Ocasio-Cortez responded to O'Rourke's plan, she said he didn't have an aggressive enough timeline.	False
710	CNN	left_bias	2017-09-22	Conservationists who want to expand their access to hunting on public park lands and at monuments are as weary of opening up national park land to fossil fuel industries as environmentalists are, since both value sustaining the land as is."	Another pro-hunting group says what they are seeing within Interior is a fight between access and conservation."	The declaration also generated the support of the National Rifle Association."	Fosberg's criticism is similar to what environmental groups said following the secretarial order last week."	"We're not going to just say it's a lost cause in September of the first year of the administration."		Hunting is down in the US. The Trump administration wants to change that Washington (CNN) Toy gun grasped firmly in his hand and a grin plastered wide across his face while he played "Big Buck Hunter Pro," Ryan Zinke could have been a kid at an arcade. But the Interior secretary and former congressman was actually in the department cafeteria showing off the arcade game installed to commemorate hunting season." To highlight #sportsmen contributions 2 conservation I installed Big Buck Hunter in the employee cafeteria. Get excited for #hunting season!" Zinke tweeted from his personal account Tuesday. But Zinke is not toying around when it comes to his support of hunters and fishers. Hunting in the United States is down. A US Fish and Wildlife Service survey released last week found that there are 2.2 million fewer hunters in America now than in 2011. And the new administration is poised to change that. On his first day in office back in March, Zinke issued two orders, one which overturned a recent ban of lead ammunition and fish tackle on Fish and Wildlife Service lands and waters. Last week Zinke issued another secretarial order designed to increase access to various public lands for hunters and fishers." What really kind of expedited this whole thing, was last week the US Fish and Wildlife put out a survey saying that hundreds of Americans were enjoying the outdoors, but within that survey they found that hunting was down," Heather Swift, Interior spokesperson said when asked about last week's secretarial order. "And the big thing that the secretary hears over and over again is that people just don't have access to land." Mr. Zinke was the pick of the litter, not the best litter ever, but he was definitely the pick and that's why we advocated for him and that's why Jr. advocated for him as well," said Land Tawney, the president of the Montana-based Backcountry Hunters & Anglers, a non-profit sportsmen's organization. Zinke and the Interior have recently made a big show of their support of hunting groups. In addition to the "Buck Hunter" game he gifted Interior employees, the department declared Thursday that October would be National Hunting and Fishing Month. The declaration also generated the support of the National Rifle Association." Hunters, anglers, and target shooters are the best conservationists who contribute so much through the Pittman-Robertson and Dingell-Johnson Acts," said Richard Childress, NRA vice president. "Last year, they contributed $1.2 billion toward conservation and protecting our natural resources. We need more mentors taking young people out and teaching them to hunt and fish, so I'm glad Secretary Zinke is promoting hunting and fishing at the federal level." With what's leaked it's super troubling. Any reduction on these monuments is an attack on the Antiquities Act," said Tawney. "All monuments are at risk now. They can become political footballs in our eyes." Conservationists who want to expand their access to hunting on public park lands and at monuments are as weary of opening up national park land to fossil fuel industries as environmentalists are, since both value sustaining the land as is." We can have all the access we want to a concrete parking lot, but that access doesn't mean anything if that fish and wildlife habitat isn't there," said Tawney. Another pro-hunting group says what they are seeing within Interior is a fight between access and conservation." On the access front the department has been good. Access to our own public lands is a lot harder today than it ever has been, and that is in part introduced with the decline in hunting numbers we've seen," said Whit Fosburgh, president and CEO of the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership, a non-profit coalition of conservation organizations and outdoor related businesses." On the conservation side however, I think it's a much less rosy picture," Fosburgh said. "It's been a lot more about expanding development, opening up to oil and gas. There has been no proactive conservation vision espoused for our public lands." Fosburgh said that the hunting community started getting "a little bit critical" of Zinke after he first announced the National Monument Review earlier this year. And he's skeptical of just how far the secretarial order will go." They use hunting and fishing for an excuse for our changes in monuments," he said. "All of the ones under review already allow hunting and fishing very clearly." Fosberg's criticism is similar to what environmental groups said following the secretarial order last week." Don't be fooled: the Trump Administration is pretending to be granting hunting and fishing rights that are already guaranteed by law and policy," said a statement from the Center for American Progress, a left-leaning thing tank. "The real story is that, with this announcement, the Trump administration is trying to create a distraction from their plans to dramatically reduce the size of America's national monuments, which would be the largest elimination of protections on wildlife habitat in US history." Nevertheless, Fosburgh said most pro-hunting and conservation minded groups are still hoping for the best with the Trump administration." We're very prepared, and we have been from day one. We supported his nomination and we are prepared to work with Secretary Zinke," he said. "We're not going to just say it's a lost cause in September of the first year of the administration."	False
488	theguardian	left_center_bias	2018-07-06	"I wasn't interested in that.	I am still not interested in that."	He's a human being, not a politician."	"There is no reason to believe that Wheeler will fix the problems left behind and put children's health ahead of his industry friends."	Welcome, pulsating black sludge," Jackson responded, in emails released under freedom of information laws.		Andrew Wheeler: a better weapon for Trump against the environment Scott Pruitt, who on Thursday resigned as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, was a firm favourite of Donald Trump. But Pruitt was plagued by scandal and faltered in carrying out the president's agenda of peeling back clean air and water regulations. His replacement is likely to be far more adept. While Pruitt was a bête noire to environmentalists, for his zeal in targeting Obama-era rules and his dismissal of climate science, his attempts at deregulation were regularly framed as rushed and clumsy as they floundered in the courts. Andrew Wheeler, Pruitt's replacement at least in the interim, could be a more effective weapon for Trump. A consummate Washington insider and a former coal lobbyist, he will likely approach his work with the same ideology as Pruitt but without the flamboyance and ethical scandals – a far more dangerous prospect for those aghast at the Trump administration's attitude to the environment." ruitt's agenda was really Trump's agenda and I think Andrew is as fully committed to advancing it as Pruitt was," Myron Ebell, who led the EPA transition team for Trump and has known Wheeler for two decades, told the Guardian." e knows much more about managing the agency and the technical side of the environmental statutes that EPA is charged with enforcing than Pruitt. Undoing [Barack] Obama's regulatory onslaught at EPA is a key part of the president's economic revival agenda, and therefore Wheeler will be a point man for Trump just as Pruitt was." For opponents of the president, the prospect is a daunting one. "Scott Pruitt was the most scandal-plagued cabinet member in an administration rife with corruption," said Christy Goldfuss, an environment advisor to Obama who is now at the Center for American Progress. "There is no reason to believe that Wheeler will fix the problems left behind and put children's health ahead of his industry friends." Confirmed by the Senate as deputy EPA administrator in April, Wheeler is well versed in the machinations of the federal government. He spent four years at the EPA's office of pollution prevention in the Bush and Clinton administrators before working for Senator James Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican whose vocal rejection of climate change science involved theatrics such as bringing a snowball on to the Senate floor. Wheeler then became a lobbyist at Faegre Baker Daniels, where he represented Murray Energy, a major coal company, until August 2017. The firm put to Trump a wish list of environmental rollbacks; Wheeler helped in its attempts to fight limits on toxic emissions such as mercury. While working for Marco Rubio's presidential campaign in February 2016, Wheeler wrote a now-deleted Facebook post in which he called Trump a "PR person" and "a bully", which he said should "alone should disqualify him from the White House". That has not hindered his rise in the Trump administration. Shortly after his nomination in October, Wheeler sent an email to Ryan Jackson, Pruitt's chief of staff, with a link to an article by the satirical website the Onion that was headlined: "EPA Promotes Pulsating Black Sludge to Deputy Director." Welcome, pulsating black sludge," Jackson responded, in emails released under freedom of information laws. "I guess I'm going to have to get the cleaning crews to come in more often." Wheeler insisted he didn't want Pruitt's job. "I could have put my hat in the ring for the administrator," he said in June. "I wasn't interested in that. I am still not interested in that." Now that he is in the role he said he didn't covet, he will be tasked with completing the job of dismantling environmental and climate regulations. Pruitt went about it enthusiastically but ran into legal action launched by states such as New York and California, as well as environmental groups. Pruitt's attempt to halt restrictions on emissions of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas, was stymied by the courts, as were proposed delays to stricter limits of lead in paint and hazy ozone in urban areas. Trump's EPA has also had difficulty in coming up with robust reasons why fuel efficiency rules for cars should be watered down, or what will replace the clean power plan, given that the agency is legally obliged to force down greenhouse gas emissions. Wheeler, with his knowledge of the rule-making process, will help manage such reversals while avoiding headlines over $1,500 fountain pens, Trump Hotel mattresses or Chick-fil-A franchises." e is low key and likes to keep a low profile," Ebell said. "He may have to do more public speaking than he wants to."A senior EPA official who did not wish to be named said: "I think it will be night and day with Wheeler, or at least night and late afternoon. He will talk to us. He's a human being, not a politician." Wheeler is likely to maintain Pruitt's close ties to industry, however. Under Trump, the fossil fuel industry has wielded unusual influence over the agency that supposedly regulates it and beleaguered staff fret that its public health mission is at risk of being buried." ruitt's removal is just the first step in restoring a strong EPA that gets back to its mission to protect public health and our environment," said Carol Browner, a long-serving EPA chief in Bill Clinton's administration. "Congress must ensure the next EPA administrator is not another industry insider."	False
259	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-11-29	The host asked Warren a listener question: name the "specific steps" she has taken in her campaign "to ensure that your campaign's environmental impact is limited as possible."	Jay Inslee's (D) climate change proposals in recent months.	Think about that, three things, 70 percent reduction," she added.	e need systemic change.	ll those with hopes and dreams who cherish the future are invited to gather in the shadow of the Halls of Congress.		Elizabeth Warren Praises Black Friday Climate Change Protesters: 'Stay Strong in this Fight!' Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) on Friday praised the climate change activists who are striking on Black Friday, urging them to "stay strong in this fight!"Climate change activists across the globe opted to protest what they consider a climate "crisis" on the biggest shopping day of the year, disrupting shoppers at the Water Tower Place shopping mall in Chicago, Illinois, and holding a "Black Friday Funeral For Future" in the nation's capital:Warren emphatically expressed her support for their efforts." limate change is an existential threat, and it's going to take a grassroots movement ready to fight for big, structural change to defeat it," Warren wrote. "I'm standing with the young activists on #ClimateStrike today—stay strong in this fight!":While protests, indeed, broke out across the globe, the protest in D.C. featured a funeral procession to "draw attention to the crisis and show that business, as usual, can not continue." We'll gather on the Southeast lawn of the Capitol to eulogize and mourn all that has been lost and all that is threatened by the climate crisis," the event's description reads." ll those with hopes and dreams who cherish the future are invited to gather in the shadow of the Halls of Congress. The ceremonial closed-casket funeral will conclude with a funeral procession through the streets of Washington, DC," it added, quoting activists who called petroleum a "plague" and the "black death of our generation." We're bringing the loss of our future to the steps of the Capitol because they need to prepare to own this death," 17-year-old organizer Maddie Graham said." e need systemic change. Congress has been feeding our fossil fuel addiction," Graham added. "They know they are killing our future, but they won't take action to save it." Meanwhile, Warren has attempted to channel Gov. Jay Inslee's (D) climate change proposals in recent months. Warren said during an interview with New Hampshire Public Radio in October:"We do those three things, we cut carbon emission in our country by 70 percent. Think about that, three things, 70 percent reduction," she added. The host asked Warren a listener question: name the "specific steps" she has taken in her campaign "to ensure that your campaign's environmental impact is limited as possible." Warren did not go into detail but claimed that she "mostly" flies commercial." o I've mostly been flying commercial," Warren said." t's everything from the kind of car we drive and down to, do we purchase offsets? Can we make that work s a way to try to reduce the footprint," she added:	False
278	breitbart	questionable_source	2019-09-07	It called for the decarbonization of the economy and 100 percent clean energy over the next decade.	This is something I've taken on in California, I have a history of working on this issue," she added.	It's a danger to the air we breathe.	But for me, I think the way we get there is we just say, 'sorry guys, but by 2035, you're done,'" she said during CNN's town hall.	Jay Inslee (D) — ahead of CNN's town hall.		Elizabeth Warren Promises Day One Executive Order on Fossil Fuel Leases, Pledges to Ban Fracking Warren promised in a tweet Friday to "sign an executive order that puts a total moratorium on all new fossil fuel leases for drilling offshore and on public lands" and vowed to "ban fracking — everywhere":Warren's pledge to ban fracking follows Sen. Bernie Sanders' (I-VT) call, urging fellow Democrat candidates to support a "fracking ban on public and private lands." Fracking is a danger to our water supply. It's a danger to the air we breathe. It causes earthquakes. It's highly explosive. Safe fracking is, like clean coal, pure fiction," Sanders said in a statement Wednesday." ut, most importantly, methane from natural gas contributes to climate change and is setting us on a path to disaster," he added. "When we are in the White House, we will end the era of fossil fuels, and that includes fracking":Ten Democrat candidates participated in CNN's seven-hour climate change town hall Wednesday, and many signaled support for the implementation of a carbon tax as well as plastic straw bans, actions on meat consumption, and the end of fracking." here's no question I'm in favor of banning fracking," Sen. Kamala Harris (D-CA) said during the town hall." tarting with what we can do on day one around public lands and then there has to be legislation, but yes. This is something I've taken on in California, I have a history of working on this issue," she added. Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) said he would ban fracking "right away on public lands." Warren released her comprehensive climate change proposal — inspired by Gov. Jay Inslee (D) — ahead of CNN's town hall. It called for the decarbonization of the economy and 100 percent clean energy over the next decade. While Warren did not go as far as Sanders in calling for the complete public ownership of utilities, she said she will tell companies that use carbon-based fuel that they are "done" by 2035." 'm perfectly willing to take on giant corporations. I think I've been known to do that once or twice. But for me, I think the way we get there is we just say, 'sorry guys, but by 2035, you're done,'" she said during CNN's town hall.	False
632	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-04-05	"This proposal goes one step further by shrinking the overall size of government and streamlining the regulatory state."	The Washington Post published a story on Tuesday citing two Trump administration officials who said a carbon tax and value added tax, or VAT, were under consideration as part of a broader tax reform plan.	For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The meeting sparked speculation that the White House was considering a carbon tax as part of a broader tax reform plan.		White House Shoots Down Carbon Tax Rumors In The Press, Again The White House shot down rumors Tuesday that administration officials were considering a tax on carbon dioxide emissions. The Washington Post published a story on Tuesday citing two Trump administration officials who said a carbon tax and value added tax, or VAT, were under consideration as part of a broader tax reform plan. But the White House quickly disavowed the statements allegedly made by the two officials, marking the second time in three weeks the Trump administration has had to shoot down carbon tax rumors." s we have said many times, the President's team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the President's plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986," deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters said in a statement responding to WaPo's story." s of now, neither a carbon tax nor a VAT are under consideration," Walters said. Walters told reporters in March the Trump administration "is not considering a carbon tax" after press secretary Sean Spicer waffled on the question. White House officials met with a group of Republicans who back a carbon tax in early February. Spicer did not respond to a request for comment.A small group of Republicans have been pushing a carbon tax for years, arguing it's more efficient than federal regulations and could be used to offset revenue losses from reductions in tax rates. Most recently, old guard Republicans on the Climate Leadership Council (CLC) met with White House officials to pitch a carbon tax that would start at $40 per ton and rise over the years. CLC says the tax could replace federal regulations and the revenues could be given back to Americans in the form of "dividends." Many carbon tax proposals are revenue-neutral," reads the Council's plan. "This proposal goes one step further by shrinking the overall size of government and streamlining the regulatory state." The meeting sparked speculation that the White House was considering a carbon tax as part of a broader tax reform plan. Many carbon tax plans claim to raise $1 trillion over ten years. The White House has shot down such speculation, but some administration officials seem intent on telling media outlets a carbon tax is still being considered. Most Republicans don't buy into a carbon tax. They argue it's not very conservative to back what would essentially amount to a tax on energy, which would effectively raise the price of all goods and services. President Donald Trump told the American Energy Alliance in a survey taken during the campaign that he opposed a carbon tax and the Obama administration's "social cost of carbon" estimate. Trump signed an executive order in late March rescinding the Obama administration's "social cost of carbon" estimate. Trump also ordered the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to review and possibly rescind the Clean Power Plan — the cornerstone of the former administration's global warming agenda. Conservative activists point out there's no deal to be made on trading federal environmental regulations for a carbon tax since Trump's already promised to roll back 75 percent of federal rules." f the Trump Administration were to endorse this idea, they would not only be breaking a campaign commitment, but would essentially be negotiating against themselves on regulations," said Tom Pyle, president of the American Energy Alliance and former member of Trump's transition team. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	False
843	Daily Mail	questionable_source	2017-09-12	'Not the cause of it, but the things that we observe.	'To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people, or actually facing the effect of the storm, is misplaced,' Pruitt said.	'But in politics it's become a heated issue that speaks to the current red-versus-blue divide.	Of course the scientific community, as the New York Times put it, believes that 'drawing links between warming global temperatures and the ferocity of hurricanes is about as controversial as talking about geology after an earthquake.	'The United States is one of the best in the world at doing this, we want to continue to do that, but right now the administration is focused on the recovery and the relief efforts and as Tom [Bossert] said a few minutes ago we'll look at that analysis once we get through the coming days and focus on the recovery and relief and saving-life effort,' Huckabee Sanders added.		WH won't say if climate change responsible for hurricanes Trump administration officials are keeping their lips sealed on whether they believe there are connections between the two Category 4 hurricanes that came barreling at the United States in recent weeks – Harvey and Irma – and climate change. When Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders was asked about a link Monday she touted the country's environmental record and moved on. When Homeland Security Advisor Tom Bossert was asked, as he preceded Huckabee Sanders in the briefing, he wouldn't talk about climate change's cause.'I will tell you that we continue to take seriously the climate change,' he said. 'Not the cause of it, but the things that we observe.''Causality is something outside my ability to analyze right now,' Bossert also added. When President Trump was asked about it Sunday, returning home to the White House from Camp David, he simply ignored the reporter's query and walked inside. Climate scientists largely agree that the oceans are heating up, leading to larger, scarier hurricanes. At Monday's briefing, Huckabee Sanders dismissed a climate change question, noting that Trump had addressed the issue previously of whether he thought it was man-made. In the past Trump has suggested climate change was a hoax created by the Chinese to choke American industry. In June he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate accord. Huckabee Sanders was also asked if Trump was re-thinking that decision now.'I'm not sure, specifically, on the Paris climate deal, but as he said at the time the goal is to always do the very best when taking care of the environment and taking proper steps,' Huckabee Sanders replied.'The United States is one of the best in the world at doing this, we want to continue to do that, but right now the administration is focused on the recovery and the relief efforts and as Tom [Bossert] said a few minutes ago we'll look at that analysis once we get through the coming days and focus on the recovery and relief and saving-life effort,' Huckabee Sanders added. Bossert had suggested that the hurricanes be studied, though also pointed out the cyclical nature of the seasons.'And I think the scientists for the forecast on this particular one, they were dead on that this would be a stronger, more powerful hurricane season with slightly more than average large storms making landfall in the United States,' he said.'So we'll have to do a larger trend analysis at a later date,' Bossert added. The Environmental Protection Agency's Scott Pruitt went one step further when asked about climate change Friday, suggesting that it wasn't appropriate.'To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people, or actually facing the effect of the storm, is misplaced,' Pruitt said. Of course the scientific community, as the New York Times put it, believes that 'drawing links between warming global temperatures and the ferocity of hurricanes is about as controversial as talking about geology after an earthquake.'But in politics it's become a heated issue that speaks to the current red-versus-blue divide. And while it's primarily Republicans who won't touch the global warming third rail, that doesn't always hold true. On Sunday, Sen. John McCain, R-Fla., who has preached bipartisanship in recent months on the heels of his cancer diagnosis, told CNN's Jake Tapper that he didn't know why his Republican colleagues were denying climate change, adding that it was 'time to sit down.''We have to understand that the climate may be changing and we can take common sense measures which will not harm the American people,' McCain argued.	False
410	vox	left_bias	2018-10-15	"I believe the climate is changing.	The F-22, in particular, is more analogous to an exotic supercar or even a high-end race car than anything else.	However, Lengyel waffled on humanity's role in shaping the climate behind these storms.	Whatever the reason, we have to be ready to deal with them."	I don't know why," he said.		Hurricane Michael showed how woefully unprepared the military is for extreme weather Hurricane Michael roared through the Florida Panhandle last week with 155 mph winds and a storm surge that reached 14 feet, killing at least 18 people in four states, destroying homes, and knocking down power lines serving millions of customers. Tyndall Air Force Base near Panama City, Florida, took a direct hit and suffered heavy damage. "The flight line is devastated. Every building has severe damage. Many buildings are a complete loss," according to the base's most recent storm damage update. Of particular concern were the base's F-22 Raptor aircraft, the most sophisticated fighter jet in the Air Force's arsenal. The stealth fighters cost $377 million apiece (if you include research and development costs), and the Air Force has 183 of them in its inventory. Tyndall is home to 55 of those F-22s. The New York Times reported that 33 of the Raptors were sent to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio, leaving several of the highly valuable aircraft in the path of the storm. A spokesperson for the Air Force declined to give any tallies for damaged aircraft at Tyndall, saying that crews are still assessing the scale of the damage. However, photos taken by passers-by show several F-22s in damaged hangars. We don't yet know the full extent of the damage across Tyndall or to the F-22s in particular. Reports now indicate that most of the F-22 aircraft that remained at Tyndall survived the storm intact and with repairable damage. But the fact that expensive hardware was housed in exposed structures on the Gulf Coast illustrates how vulnerable the military is to extreme weather, especially as storms like hurricanes gain a boost from climate change. It also shows that the military is on the front lines of the consequences of rising temperatures. Conflicts exacerbated by drought, heat, and storms are a major concern for defense planners. Military installations themselves are also at risk: At least 128 bases face inundation from sea level rise. With billions of dollars of assets in harm's way and more weather extremes on the horizon, making and enacting disaster plans are becoming all the more critical for the military. While Hurricane Michael was the first Category 4 storm to make landfall in the Florida Panhandle on record, major hurricanes have struck the region in the past. Tyndall Air Force Base spans more than 29,000 acres and is home to almost 4,000 active military personnel. Officials say that base staff and their families were evacuated ahead of the storm, and since Michael passed, no fatalities or injuries were reported. But the base's runways sit adjacent to barrier islands (including the aptly named "Hurricane Island") and were particularly at risk for damage from extreme weather. A hangar on the base even served as a refuge for other Raptors in May as Subtropical Storm Alberto hit the region. Tyler Rogoway at The Drive wrote a compelling explanation for why all the valuable aircraft weren't simply flown out of harm's way:At modern fighter is not a Honda Accord. You don't just hop in it and drive it around for months until you finally have to take it for a one-hour oil change when the light comes on. If anything, they are far more akin to high-end sports cars that require a lot of expensive TLC to keep operating. The F-22, in particular, is more analogous to an exotic supercar or even a high-end race car than anything else. It requires dozens of hours of maintenance for every single flight hour and deep maintenance can take days or even many weeks to accomplish, depending on what is needed to be done and availability of spare parts, which can be scarce. The aircraft that weren't removed were likely undergoing maintenance and couldn't be readied in time for transportation, especially given that Hurricane Michael gained strength so fast. However, given that there are so few F-22s overall (the Air Force has more than 400 F-15s and more than 1,000 F-16s) and that Raptors are no longer being manufactured, each lost or damaged F-22 presents a large loss of capability. The coastal bases that house sensitive equipment like F-22s also face hazards, particularly from extreme weather. As climate change pushes average temperatures up, the raw ingredients of hurricanes — water temperature and air temperature — also intensify. Water temperatures in the Gulf of Mexico were 3 to 5 degrees Fahrenheit higher than is typical this time of year. Michael's rapid ramp-up also comports with what scientists expect from global warming. "As the climate continues to warm, hurricanes may intensify more rapidly just before striking land, making hurricane forecasting more difficult," wrote Massachusetts Institute of Technology climate scientist Kerry Emanuel in a 2017 paper in the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society. For its part, the military has been blunt about the risks posed by climate change, describing it as a "threat multiplier." The effects of a changing climate … will impact our security situation," said Defense Secretary James Mattis during his confirmation hearing. The military assembled an adaptation roadmap in 2014, chalking out how they plan to contend with climate change. Plans include raising coastal infrastructure, protecting vulnerable supply chains, and increasing disaster training. And the head of the National Guard, Air Force Gen. Joseph Lengyel, told Vox's Alex Ward last week, "There's a lot of storms coming our way. Whatever the reason, we have to be ready to deal with them." However, Lengyel waffled on humanity's role in shaping the climate behind these storms. "I believe the climate is changing. I don't know why," he said. However, as Hurricane Michael showed, there's a vast gulf between acknowledging climate change and adequately preparing for it. Either there was a plan in place to deal with an unprecedented storm at Tyndall and it wasn't followed, or there wasn't one, and we're already seeing the consequences.	False
50	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-10-31	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPCorrection: A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events.	It was only about past events.	"There's no shortage of ideas about how this happens, but it's not quite clear how they all fit together."	The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience.	ne key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages," University of Chicago professor and the study's co-author, Malte Jansen, said in a statement.		Explosion in Antarctic sea ice levels may cause another ice age? Upside-down "rivers" of warm ocean water may be one of the causes of Antarctica's ice shelves breaking up, leading to a rise in sea levels. A new study suggests that, in the past, increases in Antarctic sea ice in colder climates may have contributed to ice ages. Using computer simulations, the research looked at past changes during the glacial periods and noted that previous increases in sea ice levels may have significantly altered the circulation of the ocean, which led to a reverse greenhouse effect as carbon dioxide levels in the ocean increased and levels in the air decreased." ne key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages," University of Chicago professor and the study's co-author, Malte Jansen, said in a statement. "We are pretty confident that the carbon balance between the atmosphere and ocean must have changed, but we don't quite know how or why." ANTARCTICA'S ICE SHEETS CONTAIN RADIOACTIVE CHLORINE GAS 60 YEARS AFTER NUCLEAR TESTS, STUDY SAYSThe last major ice age ended at the end of the Pleistocene epoch, about 11,700 years ago, as glaciers have periodically grown and then gotten smaller. Researchers believe that changes to the Earth's orbit may be partly responsible for some of the Earth's cooling, but additional factors have likely played a part, Jensen added." he most plausible explanation is that there was some change in how carbon was divided between the atmosphere and the ocean," Jansen continued. "There's no shortage of ideas about how this happens, but it's not quite clear how they all fit together." Researchers also believe a mini-ice age may have occurred roughly 12,800 years ago. It likely stems from an asteroid impact that "rocked the Northern Hemisphere" and led to the Younger Dryas climate event. Jansen pointed out that the Southern Ocean around Antarctica "plays a key role in ocean circulation" due to the deep waters in the region, leading it to have "outsize[d] consequences." AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING, NEW STUDY FINDS"What this suggests is that it's a feedback loop," said the study's lead author, Alice Marzocchi. "As the temperature drops, less carbon is released into the atmosphere, which triggers more cooling." What surprised me is how much of this increased storage can be attributed to physical changes alone, with Antarctic sea-ice cover being the key player," Marzocchi added, noting that future study of the ocean and the role it plays in the carbon cycle can help simulate "future environmental change." The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPCorrection: A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events. It was only about past events.	False
53	foxnews	right_bias	2019-02-05	"My personal view is, that undermines the credibility of the effort."	"I understand the value of aspirational goals," Bledsoe said.	Details of the letter were first published by Bloomberg.	ANALYSIS: GREEN NEW DEAL IS MOST RADICAL LEGISLATION IN DECADESThrough it all, the Green New Deal would additionally "promote justice and equity by preventing current and repairing historic oppression to frontline and vulnerable communities," according to Ocasio-Cortez.	On Twitter Monday, Ocasio-Cortez reposted a claim from one of her advisers, Robert Hockett, arguing that "in this case, size matters" and that "the problems the Green New Deal addresses require solutions where bigger is better, imperative, and paraodixcally, more affordable."		'Green New Deal' details emerge, as Ocasio-Cortez preps big reveal of WW2-level mobilization New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez on Monday unveiled new details on the so-called "Green New Deal" she plans to introduce in a matter of days, as she worked behind-the-scenes to rally congressional support for the proposal that could cost as much as $7 trillion. Ocasio-Cortez, who is set to unveil the plan with Massachusetts Democratic Sen. Ed Markey, told her fellow representatives in a letter that the Green New Deal calls for a "national, social, industrial and economic mobilization at a scale not seen since World War II." Next week, we plan to release a resolution that outlines the scope and scale of the Green New Deal," Ocasio-Cortez said in the letter, adding that the country's near-total economic transformation should take approximately ten years. To raise awareness for the measure, Markey announced Monday he had invited Varshini Prakash, the co-founder of the Sunrise Movement environmentalist group, to be his guest at President Trump's State of the Union address Tuesday night. (Several other Democrats announced guests apparently intended to highlight their opposition to various Trump administration policies, while Trump himself extended invites to the family of a couple allegedly murdered by an illegal immigrant and a child bullied at school for having the last name "Trump.")The Green New Deal proposal would lead to national net-zero greenhouse gas emissions, according to Ocasio-Cortez's letter, "through a fair and just transition for all communities and workers," while also generating millions of "good, high-wage jobs." Details of the letter were first published by Bloomberg. ANALYSIS: GREEN NEW DEAL IS MOST RADICAL LEGISLATION IN DECADESThrough it all, the Green New Deal would additionally "promote justice and equity by preventing current and repairing historic oppression to frontline and vulnerable communities," according to Ocasio-Cortez. On Twitter Monday, Ocasio-Cortez reposted a claim from one of her advisers, Robert Hockett, arguing that "in this case, size matters" and that "the problems the Green New Deal addresses require solutions where bigger is better, imperative, and paraodixcally, more affordable." Hockett is a lawyer and law professor, and is not an expert in environmental policy. Several analysts, meanwhile, have cautioned that the liberal firebrand is in over her head, even though the as-yet vague and uncertain details about the Green New Deal render a precise calculation impossible at the moment. Physicist Christopher Clack told The Hill that the cost would easily be into the trillions." t's a daunting task, and I'm not sure that the authors of the Green New Deal fully comprehend how much they'll need," Clack said. Institute for Energy Research president Tom Pyle was more blunt: "One hundred percent renewable energy defies the laws of physics. It would be impossible to achieve." And Paul Bledsoe, a strategic adviser at the Progressive Policy Institute, said progressives were overcompensating. "I understand the value of aspirational goals," Bledsoe said. "My personal view is, that undermines the credibility of the effort." Nevertheless, approximately 70 Democratic lawmakers have so far tentatively endorsed a Green New Deal plan, including Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren and California Democratic Sen. Kamala Harris. House speaker Nancy Pelosi, who has vowed to address climate change, has not publicly signed onto the plan, even though scores of progressive activists -- joined by Ocasio-Cortez -- staged a sit-in at her House office late last year, demanding action on the climate. While there is no legislative text yet available for the Markey/Ocasio-Cortez proposal, a draft circulated by Ocasio-Cortez last week called for a committee to be formed to create a plan, and lays out a framework that includes eliminating greenhouse gas emissions from manufacturing and agriculture, while "dramatically" expanding energy sources to meet 100 percent of power demand through renewable sources. To cover what would presumably be a gargantuan cost, it envisions financing by "the federal government, using a combination of the Federal Reserve, a new public bank or system of regional and specialized public banks, public venture funds and such other vehicles or structures that the select committee deems appropriate, in order to ensure that interest and other investment returns generated from public investments made in connection with the plan will be returned to the treasury, reduce taxpayer burden and allow for more investment." As it stands, any such proposal would be almost certainly dead on arrival in the Republican-controlled Senate, and also possibly the House -- where it is not clear if a majority of Democrats would back a plan. Even if Congress managed to pass a version of the Green New Deal, the White House could veto the legislation, and a two-thirds majority in both the House of Representatives and the Senate would be needed to override the veto. The Trump administration has made clear it would not accept Ocasio-Cortez's proposals. In January, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders derided Ocasio-Cortez's recent claim that the world will end in 12 years due to climate change, and suggested the Trump administration has little need for the progressive firebrand's thoughts in general. CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP"I don't think we're going to listen to [Ocasio-Cortez] on much of anything -- particularly not on matters we're gonna leave in the hands of a much, much higher authority -- and certainly, not listen to the freshman congresswoman on when the world may end," Sanders told Fox News' "Hannity." Speaking at an event commemorating Martin Luther King Day that month, Ocasio-Cortez asserted that climate change constituted "our World War II" and added: "Millennials and people, you know, Gen Z and all these folks that will come after us are looking up and we're like: 'The world is gonna end in 12 years if we don't address climate change and your biggest issue is, how are we gonna pay for it?'"	False
146	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-05-08	If you have a view on what you want to happen, we'll carry it out when you execute it.	But a good portion of the discussion focused on climate change, environmental protections and an ethics investigation against Bernhardt and several other agency officials.A sobering United Nations report released Monday found that up to 1 million species of land and marine species are at risk of extinction due to human actions.	That is my position."	She asked Bernhardt how he would incorporate the scientific findings into the agency's activities and asked if he would rethink the administration's push to boost domestic energy production."	Interior's internal watchdog recently opened two ethics probes ― the first of them just four days into Bernhardt's tenure ― into multiple high-ranking interior officials, including the secretary.		Interior Chief Blames Congress For His Inaction On Climate Change Taking his previous statements even further, Interior Secretary David Bernhardt told lawmakers Tuesday that he is not obligated to combat climate change because there is no law requiring that he do so. Bernhardt responded by noting that there are over 600 instances in the law directing the Interior Department secretary to do certain things, including completing reports and making certain authorizations, but, he said, there is no such mandate for addressing planetary warming." ou know what there's not is a shall for 'I shall manage the land to stop climate change,' or something similar to that," he said, pointing the finger at Congress. The hearing was the first of two appearances Bernhardt has before Congress this week to defend the Trump administration's 2020 budget request, which calls for a 14% cut in funding for the Department of the Interior. But a good portion of the discussion focused on climate change, environmental protections and an ethics investigation against Bernhardt and several other agency officials.A sobering United Nations report released Monday found that up to 1 million species of land and marine species are at risk of extinction due to human actions. Neither Bernhardt nor the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, an agency he oversees and that is primarily responsible for safeguarding the nation's imperiled species, issued a statement about the report. Rep. Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), the subcommittee's chair, quoted from the U.N. report and told Bernhardt the "country is depending on you to help lead the fight along with us to combat these issues," including the biodiversity and climate crises. She asked Bernhardt how he would incorporate the scientific findings into the agency's activities and asked if he would rethink the administration's push to boost domestic energy production." re we going to stop oil and gas development because of this report? The answer to that is no," Bernhardt said. "Congress, you all, have the ability to decide whether we do anything on federal lands. ... If you have a view on what you want to happen, we'll carry it out when you execute it. That is my position." Bernhardt, a former oil and gas lobbyist who was confirmed as agency secretary last month, told the subcommittee that he recognizes that the climate is changing, that human beings are "a contributing factor" and that the agency is taking the threat into account in its decision-making.A pair of dire reports released last year, one from the United Nations and another from more than a dozen federal U.S. agencies, warned that world governments are running out of time to stave off catastrophic climate change. Still, the Trump administration has barreled ahead with its fossil fuel-centric "energy dominance" agenda. Approximately one-quarter of all U.S. greenhouse gas emissions come from fossil fuel extraction on federal lands, according to a government report released by the Trump administration in November. Bernhardt, who brought with him to the job a slew of potential conflicts of interest from his days as an energy lobbyist, also faced tough questions Tuesday about alleged ethics violations. Interior's internal watchdog recently opened two ethics probes ― the first of them just four days into Bernhardt's tenure ― into multiple high-ranking interior officials, including the secretary. Bernhardt stressed, as he has before, that he takes ethics extremely seriously, is working to improve the agency's ethics program and is confident that he has complied with all rules and will be cleared at the end of the investigation.	False
184	cbsnews	left_center_bias	2019-09-06	It's always been this country, and this country that leads — just like you reminded people last Thursday — the greatness of America, the innovation of America.	The varied standards mean automakers have had to make extra effort in either making two types of cars or manufacturing them all in accordance with the higher California standards.	You know, for too long, there's been this conventional wisdom that you've got to choose between economic growth and environmental protection," Energy Secretary Rick Perry said during a July speech on the environment that avoided any mention of climate change.	Given the importance Congress placed on the authority of DOT and EPA for motor vehicle fuel economy and nationwide vehicle emissions standards under federal law, we urge you to act immediately to disassociate CARB from the commitments made by the four automakers," the letter added.	"That's a false choice, and it's one that you've talked about, Mr. President.		Trump administration challenges California on fuel economy standards The Trump administration is challenging California over the state's new automotive emissions and fuel economy "framework" agreement with automakers, insisting setting such standards is the federal government's role. Lawyers at the Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Transportation on Friday sent a letter to the chairman of the California Air Resources Board, following California's July "framework" agreement with Ford, Volkswagen, Honda and BMW to abide by certain new greenhouse gas emissions standards." The purpose of this letter is to put California on notice that this framework agreement appears to be inconsistent with federal law," the letter said. "Congress has squarely vested the authority to set fuel economy standards for new motor vehicles, and nationwide standards for GHG vehicle emissions, with the federal government, not with California or any other state." Given the importance Congress placed on the authority of DOT and EPA for motor vehicle fuel economy and nationwide vehicle emissions standards under federal law, we urge you to act immediately to disassociate CARB from the commitments made by the four automakers," the letter added. California had imposed stricter fuel economy and emissions standards long before July, and some of the state's laws were enacted before the Clean Air Act. Congress granted a waiver to allow California to enact its own standards, and a dozen other states also adopted California's standards. The varied standards mean automakers have had to make extra effort in either making two types of cars or manufacturing them all in accordance with the higher California standards. President Trump has pushed for months to weaken Obama-era mileage standards nationwide. Those standards were designed to make cars more fuel efficient and reduce pollution. The administration moves to rescind California's authority are likely to prompt legal battles. When President George W. Bush challenged California's greenhouse gas emissions and mileage-setting ability, California fought it in the courts. The Obama administration subsequently dropped the Bush effort. The Trump administration has argued that the extra expense to comply with the emissions requirements will raise the price of new cars, making them unaffordable and depriving buyers of new safety technology. Many experts, including former EPA engineers, have challenged the administration's safety assertion. Mr. Trump has long advocated for the auto industry, and his administration has emphasized that environmental concerns cannot trump economic considerations." You know, for too long, there's been this conventional wisdom that you've got to choose between economic growth and environmental protection," Energy Secretary Rick Perry said during a July speech on the environment that avoided any mention of climate change. "That's a false choice, and it's one that you've talked about, Mr. President.  It's always been this country, and this country that leads — just like you reminded people last Thursday — the greatness of America, the innovation of America.  And the future of this world will rely greatly upon America and this administration."	False
661	CNN	left_bias	2017-04-20	The NAACP presented Pruitt with a list of demands, including a call for an executive order that would include a greater commitment to communities like East Chicago.	Those demands include: Oversight of East Chicago's ongoing attempts to improve its corrosion control treatment; expanded blood-lead level testing of children under age 7; bottled water and home water filtration systems to residents throughout the city and testing the city's drinking water to determine the extent of the contamination.	The Agency's press release quoted Pruitt saying: "I'm focused on getting EPA back to the basics of protecting human health and the environment, and one of my top priorities is delivering real results for the people of East Chicago.'	"We need them to commit to adjusting cleanup plan for the site.	That includes financial help to make sure that happens. "		EPA head visits community famous for lead contamination The people who live there are at risk of lead contamination at every turn. It's in their drinking water and it's in their soil. More than one thousand people were forced to evacuate, according to Debbie Chizewer at Northwestern Law School, who has worked very closely with the affected residents. A local school was shut down and a public housing complex was also evacuated after soil tests showed lead and arsenic contamination levels 228 times the amount the Environmental Protection Agency considers potentially hazardous to children. It was the first superfund site EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has visited -- making a trip there Wednesday -- and the agency said he was the first administrator to visit this particular site. Pruitt visited "to discuss cleanup and hear directly from East Chicago residents affected by contamination in their community," the agency said in a press release. At a press conference, local officials praised Pruitt for visiting the site. The community is what's a called a legacy contamination site. It was listed on the "National Priorities List" of the worst contaminated hazardous waste sites in the country in 2009. The site includes part of the former USS Lead facility along with nearby commercial, municipal and residential areas, including the West Calumet public housing complex. Barbara Bolling-Williams, state president of the Indiana branch of the NAACP, said she is cautiously optimistic following Pruitt's visit, but added that his visit comes with the threat of "a skinnier EPA budget, fewer regulations -- and rumors Chicago's regional EPA office could be shut down looms in the background." The Trump administration's proposed budget calls for a 31% cut to the budget, including cuts to the agency's environmental justice program. The program is intended to support poor, often minority communities with severe environmental challenges. One week ago, the local chapter of the NAACP said it invited Pruitt to a roundtable discussion on environmental justice, which happened Wednesday morning. In attendance were residents, NAACP national President Cornell Williams Brooks and community members. Pruitt skipped that event, and instead invited a group to a meeting of his own at a local school that was shut down as a result of the lead contamination in the community. Bolling-Williams, who was invited to Pruitt's meeting, said: "Pruitt listened to all of our concerns but he did not offer any solutions." She said her organization wants to see the EPA do more to protect the East Chicago community. The NAACP presented Pruitt with a list of demands, including a call for an executive order that would include a greater commitment to communities like East Chicago. "We need them to commit to adjusting cleanup plan for the site. Instead of digging up two feet of contaminated soil for disposal, digging up eight feet. We want that soil to be disposed of properly so as not to cause further contamination, we want continued testing of the soil and ground water in this area and a commitment to ensure the residents exposed to the lead get the physical and mental health care they need for the rest of their life. That includes financial help to make sure that happens. " EPA spokesman J.P. Freire told CNN in an email: "Forget about the politics. Administrator Pruitt was working for environmental justice by meeting with the real residents affected by lead contamination and by committing to get results." In its press release, the agency laid out the accomplishments of its cleanup effort under Pruitt: East Chicago is receiving $16.5 million in EPA State Revolving Fund (SRF) funding for drinking-water infrastructure upgrades. EPA, the state and the city are working together to coordinate lead service-line replacement with cleanup work to expedite completion of the work and minimize disruptions. EPA provided 54 homes with filters and bottled water while Superfund work was underway at those properties in Zones 2 and 3. This year, Indiana will distribute filters to all residents in Zones 2 and 3. The Natural Resources Defense Council told CNN that Pruitt has yet to respond to its request for more EPA assistance and oversight in the lead problem in East Chicago's drinking water. Those demands include: Oversight of East Chicago's ongoing attempts to improve its corrosion control treatment; expanded blood-lead level testing of children under age 7; bottled water and home water filtration systems to residents throughout the city and testing the city's drinking water to determine the extent of the contamination. During his visit, Pruitt provided brief comments at a press conference in East Chicago but quickly exited without answering questions from reporters. The Agency's press release quoted Pruitt saying: "I'm focused on getting EPA back to the basics of protecting human health and the environment, and one of my top priorities is delivering real results for the people of East Chicago.' Pruitt went on: "Since I was sworn in as administrator, funding has been secured for drinking water infrastructure upgrades in East Chicago, filters and bottled water have been provided to residents and cleanup of contaminated soil has resumed."	True
167	theguardian	left_center_bias	2019-02-06	It was something that was going to happen when people's grandchildren were alive.	In 10 years, Clement said, climate change will be central to all policy discussions, as one of the top three or four issues in the world, Clement said.	"To not say anything about it is just ignorance, and it's irresponsible."	"I don't think that future presidents will find themselves in this position, because people are feeling the effects of climate change."	However, Bernie Sanders, in his own response speech, noted warnings in reports from the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change."		Trump State of the Union speech: what climate change experts say A climate scientist and a former government expert in the audience for Donald Trump's annual address to Congress said this will probably be the last administration that can forgo talking about climate change in the State of the Union speech. Trump did not mention rising temperatures or extreme weather, although he did tout the country's status as the top producer of oil and gas and boast about how quickly his officials have moved to cut regulations. Lisa Graumlich, the dean of the environment college at the University of Washington, attended the State of the Union address as a guest of the Washington congresswoman Pramila Jayapal."  have been doing research on climate change since the 1970s, and it always seemed very far away in time and space. It was something that was going to happen when people's grandchildren were alive. And that has changed," Graumlich said. "I don't think that future presidents will find themselves in this position, because people are feeling the effects of climate change." Joel Clement, who resigned from the interior department because he said the administration was muzzling scientists and ignoring climate change effects on vulnerable communities, now works with the Union of Concerned Scientists. He was invited by the Maine congressman Chellie Pingree." he Trump administration's strategy is to ignore climate change and pretend it doesn't exist and pretend the science doesn't exist even if it's coming from its own agencies," Clement said. "To not say anything about it is just ignorance, and it's irresponsible." In 10 years, Clement said, climate change will be central to all policy discussions, as one of the top three or four issues in the world, Clement said. Several other high-profile climate advocates were invited by other Democrats protesting against Trump's doubts of the science and his rollbacks. The New York congressman Paul Tonko invited the League of Conservation Voters' Gene Karpinski and the Maryland congressman Jamie Raskin brought along 350. org's Bill McKibben. The Massachusetts senator Ed Markey attended with the head of the youth-led Sunrise Movement, Varshini Prakash, who is calling for a Green New Deal to tackle inequality and quickly cut greenhouse gas emissions. Markey is expected to join Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez this week in releasing expanded language on the high-level goals of a Green New Deal. Even the Democratic rebuttal to Trump's speech, by the ex-Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams, only mentioned climate change once, in a list of priorities the US could pursue. However, Bernie Sanders, in his own response speech, noted warnings in reports from the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change." ow can a president of the United States give a State of the Union speech and not mention – not one word – about climate change when the leading scientists of the world tell us that climate change is real, that climate change is caused by human activity, that climate change is already causing devastating harm in the United States," Sanders said. "Furthermore, the scientists tell us we have a very short, 12 years, not a lot of time in order to transform our energy system away from fossil fuels." While very little of the primetime speeches focused on climate change, Democrats will hold two hearings in the House on Wednesday about its effects.	False
706	CNN	left_bias	2017-06-02	"It can strengthen United States company's competitiveness in the global markets."	While the proclamations -- a relatively standard annual designation -- praised the US's oceans and natural landscapes, the language clearly differed from Obama's.	Instead, there is an administration-wide reluctance to avoid the topic altogether.	"I think that measuring with precision human activity on the climate is something very challenging to do, and there's tremendous disagreement about the degree of impact," Pruitt said in a CNBC interview in March .	"You can't make something not real if you just don't talk about it.		Trump doesn't want to talk about climate change Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump spent an hour Thursday talking about his commitment to economic growth and national stability as he announced the decision to back out of the Paris Climate Accord. After famously calling climate change a "hoax" during the campaign, Trump has avoided the issue of increased man-made greenhouse gas emissions and their impact on global temperatures. Asked Wednesday if Trump thinks human activity is contributing to climate change, White House press secretary Sean Spicer responded , "Honestly, I haven't asked him that. I can get back to you." Two White House officials avoided similar questions at a background briefing with reporters after Trump's speech Thursday. And EPA chief Scott Pruitt dodged the question in an interview with CNN's Jake Tapper." This is not about whether climate change is occurring or not," Pruitt said on "The Lead." The pattern of the White House has been to turn away from the discussion of climate change without taking the step to argue directly that global warming isn't real. Instead, there is an administration-wide reluctance to avoid the topic altogether. In recent months, Trump proposed cutting the Environmental Protection Agency budget by more than 30%. EPA has challenged scientific findings on climate change -- including by its own in-house scientists. And EPA cut climate information from its website. Former deputy EPA administrator under President Barack Obama, Bob Perciasepe, said the Trump administration's avoidance of the term "just makes them seem out of touch with reality." Climate change is happening, whether they speak about it or not," said Perciasepe, who currently serves as president of the nonprofit Center for Climate and Energy Solutions. "You can't make something not real if you just don't talk about it. It doesn't change reality -- it's just a way for them to de-emphasize something the rest of the world knows is going on." On Wednesday, the White House declared June National Oceans Month and Great Outdoors Month. While the proclamations -- a relatively standard annual designation -- praised the US's oceans and natural landscapes, the language clearly differed from Obama's. Where Obama's 2016 proclamations discussed the impacts of global warming, including drought and rising sea levels, Trump's focused on energy production, fisheries management and tourism with no mention of climate change. And the administration is adopting the same reasoning in press releases. Last month, the Interior Department released a study by the U.S. Geological Survey that highlighted the link between sea-level rise and global climate change. Except the release had one thing missing -- any mention of climate change. Three of the study's scientist authors told The Washington Post that they had to ultimately delete a line from the report that read "Global climate change drives sea-level rise, increasing the frequency of coastal flooding." Instead, the USGS release leaves the cause unmentioned . It begins: "The frequency and severity of coastal flooding throughout the world will increase rapidly and eventually double in frequency over the coming decades even with only moderate amounts of sea level rise."A defense against believing humans are responsible for climate change is that scientific studies are not 100% certain -- a stance frequently used by members of the Trump administration that muddles the scientific consensus that man-made emissions are driving global warming."I think that measuring with precision human activity on the climate is something very challenging to do, and there's tremendous disagreement about the degree of impact," Pruitt said in a CNBC interview in March . "So, no, I would not agree that it's a primary contributor to the global warming that we see." While the White House may be against jumping to conclusions on the available scientific studies -- with Pruitt even calling for more data from industry scientists -- the administration has done little to back up those calls monetarily. In fact, instead of spending money to further study the effects and reality, or unreality of global warming -- the administration has opted instead to cut much of the major funding that would go towards the studies." It is hypocritical," said Andrew Rosenberg, director for the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists. "They are complaining about uncertainty but at the same time increasing uncertainty by cutting back on ways to measure [climate change.]"For many, the administration's reluctance to deal with the idea of climate change comes down to one thought -- that economic growth and climate awareness cannot go hand in hand." The idea that they are operating on is that the US will be at a disadvantage if it deals with climate change. Most businesses would think that working on the climate issues can and has been creating jobs," said Perciasepe. "It can strengthen United States company's competitiveness in the global markets."	False
423	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2018-10-08	"Hence the 1.5 C target is aspirational, not functional."	There is near-universal agreement that putting a price on carbon dioxide, likely through a tax, is key to scaling back emissions, in much the same way levies on tobacco and alcohol are meant to offset those products' societal costs.	"We're going to need to make a wide range of course corrections to have a hope of achieving 1.5 and also prepare for larger impacts than we're already experiencing."	But for some conservative climate hawks, the reality of the IPCC report hit home.	Polling released last month shows swelling support for a federal policy guaranteeing a high-wage job in a green industry to anyone who wants one.		'Sobering' New UN Report Challenges Republican Climate Hawks' Free-Market Dogma Kirsti McCluer / Reuters Golfers play in North Bonneville, Washington, last fall as the Eagle Creek wildfire burns. The U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said the world must drastically cut greenhouse gas emissions to avoid climate disaster." he only force that I know of on the planet that can deliver innovation as quickly as we need it is the free enterprise system," said former Rep. Bob Inglis (R-S.C.), now the executive director of RepublicEn, a group urging Republicans to support a carbon tax. The report, based on more than 6,000 scientific references, found that world governments have just 12 years to cut planet-warming gases 45 percent at a time when humanity's CO2 footprint is rapidly rising and fossil fuel emissions are hitting an all-time high. By 2050, emissions need to hit net zero. Failing to do so would be cataclysmic. The IPCC pegged the price of damage caused by 1.5 degrees of warming at $54 trillion ― a figure that soars to $69 trillion at 2 degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, of temperature rise. There is near-universal agreement that putting a price on carbon dioxide, likely through a tax, is key to scaling back emissions, in much the same way levies on tobacco and alcohol are meant to offset those products' societal costs. Last year Sens. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) and Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) and Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) and David Cicilline (D-R.I.) introduced companion carbon-tax bills in Congress. In July, Reps. Carlos Curbelo (R-Fla.) and Brian Fitzpatrick (R-Pa.) proposed a lower carbon tax, earning plaudits for breaking with the Republican orthodoxy calling the very basics of climate change science into question." t's totally unrealistic," said Jennifer Francis, a research professor at Rutgers University. "We're going to need to make a wide range of course corrections to have a hope of achieving 1.5 and also prepare for larger impacts than we're already experiencing." Andrew Dessler, a climate scientist at Texas A&M University, cast doubt on the possibility of halting human-caused temperature at the 1 degree Celsius average global increase the planet has already experienced. Though he said a "carbon tax high enough" could "reduce emissions arbitrarily fast," the result would be soaring energy prices "rather than what we want, which is a switch to renewables." Asked during an IPCC press conference on Sunday night if carbon pricing could radically overhaul the global economy in the next decade, two IPCC authors started to laugh. James Skea, a co-chair of an IPCC working group, said it was "one among that portfolio of instruments that can be used" but could not serve as a panacea.A number of insurgent left-wing Democrats running in the 2018 midterms, including star New York City congressional candidate Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, are coalescing around a so-called Green New Deal, a loose set of proposals to spend trillions in federal dollars on renewable energy projects, coastal fortifications and home weatherization retrofits. Polling released last month shows swelling support for a federal policy guaranteeing a high-wage job in a green industry to anyone who wants one. Last month California became the biggest state to pass a law requiring 100 percent clean electricity by 2045. In a surprise move, Gov. Jerry Brown (D) also signed an executive order mandating the changes' sweep extend beyond utilities to the entire economy, including vehicles, the nation's largest source of carbon pollution. Curbelo and Fitzpatrick did not respond to requests for comment Monday. Nor did the oil giant Exxon Mobil Corp., which spent decades financing a network of climate change misinformation before announcing its support for a carbon tax, or the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, a corporate consortium that advocates for what it calls "practical solutions" to climate change. But for some conservative climate hawks, the reality of the IPCC report hit home. Jerry Taylor, a former climate denier who in recent years became the poster boy for Republican climate realism, said he sticks by a carbon tax as the best solution but believes keeping warming within 1.5 degrees is unrealistic at this point, regardless of policy."  steep enough global-economy-wide price on carbon could do it, but that's not likely to happen," said Taylor, the president of the libertarian Niskanen Center. "Hence the 1.5 C target is aspirational, not functional." Over lunch at a conference last week, Flint staked out his opposition to the Obama administration's use of executive authority to regulate carbon dioxide emissions. A former Trump transition team official, he described himself as a "sherpa" for Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke's confirmation process. Now he says he's "trying to get politicians to catch up with the science." Asked where the line is between what critics said was the previous administration's federal overreach and attempting to stave off the worst of what the IPCC predicted, Flint went quiet for a while.	False
12	foxnews	right_bias	2019-04-10	The Associated Press contributed to this report.	The groups said in an April 5 letter that individual states shouldn't be able to use provisions of the Clear Air Act "to dictate national policy, thereby harming other states and the national interest and damaging cooperative federalism."	Trump's developing an addiction to executive orders that rubberstamp these climate-killing projects," said Brett Hartl, government affairs director at the center.	Trade groups representing the oil and gas industry applauded the orders and said greater access to natural gas benefits families and the environment."	Environmental groups described Trump's order as an effort to short-circuit a state's ability to review complicated projects, putting at risk a state's ability to protect drinking water supplies and wildlife."		Trump signs executive orders making it tougher for states to block pipeline construction President Trump on Wednesday signed two executive orders that will make it harder for states to block the construction of oil and gas pipelines and other energy projects due to environmental concerns. Coming on the heels of officials in Washington state and New York using permitting processes to stop new energy projects in recent years – and at the urging of some industry leaders – Trump's executive order will speed up the construction of oil and gas pipelines across the country." y action today will cut through the destructive permitting and denials," Trump said during the signing of the executive orders at the International Union of Operating Engineers International Training and Education Center, a union-run facility in Crosby, Texas. "Under this administration, we've ended the war on American energy." It will take no more than 60 days," Trump said of the approval process for new pipelines, "and the president, not the bureaucracy, will make the final decision." While the move was greeted warmly by members of the country's oil and gas industries, it is likely to rankle some more traditional conservative lawmakers – including several Republican governors - worried about the federal government impinging on individual state rights and governance. The White House has sought to stave off any discord by arguing that the order is not meant to take power away from the states, but to ensure that state actions follow the intent of the Clean Water Act. Trade groups representing the oil and gas industry applauded the orders and said greater access to natural gas benefits families and the environment." When states say 'no' to the development of natural gas pipelines, they force utilities to curb safe and affordable service and refuse access to new customers, including new businesses," said Karen Harbert, president and CEO at the American Gas Association. Trump's move comes less than a week after nearly a dozen business groups told EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler that the environmental review and permitting process for energy infrastructure projects "has become a target for environmental activists and states that oppose the production and use of fossil fuels." The groups said in an April 5 letter that individual states shouldn't be able to use provisions of the Clear Air Act "to dictate national policy, thereby harming other states and the national interest and damaging cooperative federalism." Washington state blocked the building of a coal terminal in 2017, saying there were too many major harmful impacts including air pollution, rail safety and vehicle traffic. New York regulators stopped a natural gas pipeline, saying it failed to meet standards to protect streams, wetlands and other water resources. Under Section 401 of the Clean Water Act, companies must get certification from the state before moving ahead with an energy project. One of Trump's planned executive orders calls for the Environmental Protection Agency to consult with states, tribes and others before issuing new guidance and rules for states on how to comply with the law. Environmental groups described Trump's order as an effort to short-circuit a state's ability to review complicated projects, putting at risk a state's ability to protect drinking water supplies and wildlife." The Trump Administration's proposal would trample on state authority to protect waters within their own borders," said Jim Murphy, senior counsel for the National Wildlife Federation. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPThe private Center for Biological Diversity said Wednesday's actions would mark the fourth time Trump has used executive orders to streamline permits for fossil-fuel infrastructure." Trump's developing an addiction to executive orders that rubberstamp these climate-killing projects," said Brett Hartl, government affairs director at the center. The second executive order Trump signed on Wednesday streamlines the process for energy infrastructure that crosses international borders. Currently, the secretary of state has the authority to issue permits for cross-border infrastructure such as pipelines. The executive order clarifies that the president will make the decision on whether to issue such permits. The move follows Trump's decision last month to issue a new presidential permit for the long-stalled Keystone XL oil pipeline — two years after he first approved it and more than a decade after it was first proposed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False
570	rt	questionable_source	2018-10-24	It's hard not to think there's an element of spite in this rhetoric, as wealthy and influential Californians led talk of secession following Trump's 2016 election victory.	As for the water, it's Trump vs. the Delta smelt, an endangered fish scientists argue can only be saved if the dammed waters are allowed to flow into the ocean instead of being used to irrigate the farms and homes of California residents.	Trump, a proud climate change skeptic, attributes the fires to "lousy management."	Speaking at a White House address on Tuesday, Trump was shocked that Californians weren't using the water contained by their dams to put out the fires and irrigate their fields.	Trump wants to redistribute that water to Californians, he says.		Trump threatens to cut federal aid to California over 'lousy management' of water & wildfires US President Donald Trump is taking California to task for the management of its forests and dams, blaming red tape for the devastating forest fires and drought plaguing the bluest of blue states, and threatening to withhold aid. Speaking at a White House address on Tuesday, Trump was shocked that Californians weren't using the water contained by their dams to put out the fires and irrigate their fields. "We have so much water they could actually water some of it," he said in disbelief. About half (48 percent) of California's land is currently experiencing drought conditions, which – combined with high temperatures and strong winds – are largely to blame for the record-setting rash of fires in the state, according to state fire chiefs. Trump, a proud climate change skeptic, attributes the fires to "lousy management." He has repeatedly said the forests are too dense and need to be thinned – a problem the logging industry would be happy to help with. As for the water, it's Trump vs. the Delta smelt, an endangered fish scientists argue can only be saved if the dammed waters are allowed to flow into the ocean instead of being used to irrigate the farms and homes of California residents. Trump wants to redistribute that water to Californians, he says. Trump threatened to withhold future federal aid if California does not "get on the ball," implying that the state's environmental woes were its own fault. It's hard not to think there's an element of spite in this rhetoric, as wealthy and influential Californians led talk of secession following Trump's 2016 election victory. Last week, Trump signed a memo geared toward improving "the reliable supply and delivery of water in California, Oregon, and Washington" by streamlining environmental review and approval for water infrastructure projects. It's not a good week for the Delta smelt. Trump announced yesterday he will nominate Aurelia Skipwith, a former Monsanto lawyer, as director of the Fish and Wildlife Service. While she has worked for the department since 2013, environmentalists accuse her of gutting protections for migratory birds and endangered species.	False
417	vox	left_bias	2018-10-26	The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change, thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate.	As relief, they want the government to pursue policies to keep warming in check.	Ann Carlson, a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles, said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests there's something there that piques the court's interest."	The plaintiffs essentially are arguing that a safe climate is a civil right, so the implications for climate change policy are huge.	But then the children's lawsuit is an unusual case.		The Supreme Court is about to decide if the children's climate lawsuit can proceed One of the biggest legal battles over climate change is now in limbo pending a decision from the Supreme Court's chief justice, who last week took the odd step of halting the lawsuit to consider a stay. The court is expected to rule Friday on whether the case, which was expected to go to trial Monday, can proceed. The suit, Juliana v. US, also known as the children's climate lawsuit, was first filed in 2015 and now includes 21 plaintiffs between the ages of 11 and 22, including Sophie Kivlehan, 20, the granddaughter of the famed climate scientist James Hansen. The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change, thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate. As relief, they want the government to pursue policies to keep warming in check. The trial was supposed to begin at the United States District Court in Oregon on October 29. But last week, the defendant, the US government, asked for a stay of the case, arguing the costs of litigation would put an undue burden on it. Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts granted a temporary stay and halted discovery until Wednesday to allow the plaintiffs to respond. The district court then vacated the case pending a decision from the high court. Working over the weekend, the children and their lawyers filed a 103-page brief on Monday, "in hopes of receiving a decision from the Chief Justice before the week's end." Now the case is back at the Supreme Court, and what happens next is unclear, including whether the other justices on the bench will weigh in. Several legal analysts told Vox it is extremely unusual for the Supreme Court to step in to block a legal proceeding in a lower court. Appeals from the District Court in Oregon are almost always handled by the 9th Circuit, which has already declined to block the lawsuit. And one of the only other times Supreme Court has done something like this was also related to climate change. In 2016, the court stayed the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan to limit greenhouse gases from power plants, pending ongoing lawsuits from states suing to block the rule from going into effect. But then the children's lawsuit is an unusual case. The plaintiffs essentially are arguing that a safe climate is a civil right, so the implications for climate change policy are huge. Though the case is in uncharted legal territory, it has survived several legal challenges and motions to dismiss, and lower federal courts have allowed it to proceed. Ann Carlson, a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles, said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests there's something there that piques the court's interest." t's certainly a signal that the court is uncomfortable with the underlying legal theory of the Juliana case," Carlson said. The federal government, under Presidents Barack Obama and Donald Trump, has argued the case has no merit and repeatedly sought to have it dismissed. Asked for comment, the Department of Justice pointed to comments made by Jeffrey Wood, a political appointee at the DOJ handling environmental cases, who spoke about the Juliana case at a law conference last week. He said that "the purported constitutional right that they assert simply does not exist" and that the Juliana lawsuit "has no legal basis." In our view, the Oregon lawsuit is an unconstitutional attempt to use a single court to control the entire nation's energy and climate policy," Wood said, adding "the plaintiffs in Oregon are ignoring the fact that clean and responsible production and use of fossil fuels remains vital to the health and well-being of the American people." For climate activists old and young, the courts have become a last resort for pushing governments and businesses to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, especially with an executive branch that's still denying climate change exists and a gridlocked Congress. There are also several ongoing climate change lawsuits filed by cities, counties, and a state against oil companies, though the pivot points are different. The local governments are citing nuisance statutes and seeking money from oil companies to pay for damages caused by climate change, whereas the children's case is trying to force the government to enact policies to curb greenhouse gas emissions. But the prospects for the children's climate lawsuit to succeed appear dim, first because the courts tend to give wide latitude to the executive branch in these cases, and second because the Supreme Court's newest Justice Brett Kavanaugh is much more skeptical of environmental regulations than his predecessor." his is just the beginning of what we're likely to see from a Court that doesn't have Justice Kennedy on it anymore," Carlson said.	False
674	Talking Points Memo	left_bias	2017-10-11	isks presented to this tenfold increase in population must, of course, be considered," the judge said.	In its analysis of the Missouri River crossing, the Corps studied the mostly white demographics in a half-mile (0.8-kilometer) radius, which the agency maintains is standard.	From there it can be shipped to the Gulf Coast and potentially lucrative markets abroad.	The judge said the Corps also didn't adequately study how the pipeline might disproportionately affect the tribal community — a concept known as environmental justice.	"This, then, is not a case in which the agency must redo its analysis from the ground up."		Judge Rules Dakota Access Pipeline To Continue Operating Amid Impact Study BISMARCK, N.D. (AP) — A federal judge ruled Wednesday that the Dakota Access oil pipeline can continue operating while a study is completed to assess its environmental impact on an American Indian tribe.U.S. District Judge James Boasberg's decision will come as a blow to the Standing Rock Sioux, who have argued that an oil spill from the pipeline under Lake Oahe — from which the tribe draws its water — could have a detrimental effect on the tribal community." oday's decision is a disappointing continuation of a historic pattern: Other people get all the profits, and the tribes get all the risk and harm," said Jan Hasselman, an Earthjustice attorney representing the tribe in an ongoing federal lawsuit through which Standing Rock and three other tribes still hope to shut down the pipeline. Boasberg found that it is likely the Army Corps of Engineers will be able to justify previous decisions made while permitting the pipeline." he Corps must simply connect the dots," he said. "This, then, is not a case in which the agency must redo its analysis from the ground up." Boasberg also acknowledged that shutting down the pipeline would disrupt the energy industry, but said it wasn't a major factor in his decision. The $3.8 billion pipeline built by Texas-based Energy Transfer Partners has been operating since June 1, moving oil from North Dakota through South Dakota and Iowa to a distribution point in Illinois. From there it can be shipped to the Gulf Coast and potentially lucrative markets abroad. It has the capacity to move half of the oil produced daily in North Dakota, the nation's second-leading producer behind Texas. Energy industry officials applauded Boasberg's ruling, with North Dakota Petroleum Council President Ron Ness calling the pipeline "a critical part of American energy infrastructure." The Justice Department declined comment on behalf of the Corps. President Donald Trump had pushed for the pipeline's completion, and the Corps dropped a plan to conduct more environmental study after he took office. Boasberg ruled on June 14 that the Corps largely complied with environmental law, but he ordered the agency to reconsider certain areas of its analysis, and took arguments on whether to shut down the 1,200-mile (1,930-kilometer) pipeline while the work is done. Boasberg in June said the Corps didn't adequately consider how an oil spill under the Lake Oahe reservoir on the Missouri River in the Dakotas might affect the Standing Rock Sioux. The tribe is among four that have challenged the pipeline in court over environmental fears that ETP says are unfounded. The judge said the Corps also didn't adequately study how the pipeline might disproportionately affect the tribal community — a concept known as environmental justice. That aims to ensure development projects aren't built in areas where minority populations might not have the resources to defend their rights. In its analysis of the Missouri River crossing, the Corps studied the mostly white demographics in a half-mile (0.8-kilometer) radius, which the agency maintains is standard. But if the agency had gone an additional 88 yards (80 meters) — about the length of a football field — the study would have included the Standing Rock Reservation. Boasberg in his ruling Wednesday said that issue was "a closer call" than the others, but that it still did not justify shutting down the pipeline. He noted that the tribe's water intake has been moved about 50 miles (80 kilometers) downstream since pipeline construction began, and said an alternative river crossing near Bismarck that had been studied and rejected would pass much closer to a drinking water intake that serve tens of thousands more people." isks presented to this tenfold increase in population must, of course, be considered," the judge said. Corps attorneys said the agency expects to be able by next spring to substantiate its earlier determination that the pipeline poses no significant environmental threats. ETP maintained that a shutdown would cost it $90 million monthly and significantly disrupt the broader energy industry as well as state and local tax revenue. The North Dakota Pipeline Authority this week said that the Dakota Access pipeline boosted the state's tax revenues by about $19 million in its first three months of operation. Tribal attorneys argued that ETP had overstated the potential effects of a shutdown, and Boasberg acknowledged "some cause for skepticism" regarding ETP's predictions. Tribal attorneys also said a shutdown would create incentive for the Corps to take the review seriously. The tribes had proposed a fallback plan if Boasberg decided against a shutdown. It includes increased public reporting of pipeline issues such as repairs, and implementation of a spill response plan — including equipment staging — at Lake Oahe. Boasberg said he will hear arguments on the matter. He scheduled a status conference for Oct. 18.	False
203	bbc	left_center_bias	2019-11-18	Far-right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe.	They say the president favours development over conservation.• Who is Brazil's new leader Jair Bolsonaro?Mr Bolsonaro - who in July dismissed a similar Inpe report as flawed - has not commented on the latest data.	But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a dramatic fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes.	As the largest rainforest in the world, the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming.	Over the past decade, previous governments in Brazil had managed to reduce deforestation with concerted action by federal agencies and a system of fines.		Brazil's Amazon deforestation highest since 2008, space agency says Deforestation of Brazil's Amazon rainforest increased by 29.5% in 12 months, the highest rate since 2008, the country's space agency reports. The rainforest lost 9,762 sq km (3,769 sq miles) of its vegetation between August 2018 and July 2019, Inpe says. Far-right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe. Scientists say the Amazon has suffered losses at an accelerated rate since Mr Bolsonaro took office in January. They say the president favours development over conservation.• Who is Brazil's new leader Jair Bolsonaro?Mr Bolsonaro - who in July dismissed a similar Inpe report as flawed - has not commented on the latest data. As the largest rainforest in the world, the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming. Over the past decade, previous governments in Brazil had managed to reduce deforestation with concerted action by federal agencies and a system of fines. But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a dramatic fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes.	False
438	vox	left_bias	2018-09-21	"[There's] rich material here to look into his behavior and his fitness for continued service in the office."	This means conservation, preserving culture, and facilitating recreation.	We should be in the business of being a partner."	And then that evening, Zinke's official Twitter account went into damage control mode, implying the message was meant for a broader audience rather than just the industries he's supposed to regulate.	)However, environmental activists and some lawmakers were appalled by the statement.		Ryan Zinke to the oil and gas industry: "Our government should work for you" Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke let the mask slip this week, turning the subtext of his term in office backing fossil fuels into the headline as he spoke to a friendly audience. On Tuesday, Zinke gave the keynote address at the Louisiana Oil and Gas Association's fall meeting in Lafayette, Louisiana. He told the conference over lunch "our government should work for you," according to organizers:You can debate what Zinke meant by "work for you," but many heard it as a pledge of allegiance to the industry. And according to the Louisiana Oil and Gas Association, the industry members in the room were thrilled with the pledge, giving Zinke a standing ovation. (An organizer told me none of the speeches at the event were recorded.)However, environmental activists and some lawmakers were appalled by the statement. And then that evening, Zinke's official Twitter account went into damage control mode, implying the message was meant for a broader audience rather than just the industries he's supposed to regulate. But Zinke has said pretty much the same thing before. In March, he told an energy industry conference: "Interior should not be in the business of being an adversary. We should be in the business of being a partner." For the record, the Interior Department's job is to manage about 75 percent of federal public land, which amounts to about one-fifth of the total area of the United States. This means conservation, preserving culture, and facilitating recreation. It also entails leasing rights to mining, drilling, grazing, and logging. However, it does not mean that the agency needs to advance the fossil fuel industry's interests, certainly not at the expense of the environment. But the Interior Department under Zinke has been pushing much harder to open up public lands to private companies while drastically rolling back its environmental responsibilities." ur mandate is multiple-use of public lands, and multiple-use also includes the development of natural resources as we seek to leverage American energy for American strength," Zinke wrote in the department's 2018-'22 strategic plan. One place we've seen Zinke pick sides is in his response to California's record wildfires. Rather than acknowledging the role of climate change in increasing fire risks, he blamed "environmental terrorist groups" while calling for more private logging on public lands. Zinke's words have been loud, but his actions have been even louder. Under Zinke, we've seen the largest rollback of federal land protections in US history. He also opened nearly all US coastal waters to offshore oil and gas drilling, preparing for the largest lease sale in US history. The National Park Service, which is part of the Interior Department, proposed more than doubling national park entrance fees before settling on increases of $5 to $10. The Bureau of Land Management, also part of the Interior Department, announced this week it was revising its rules on methane emissions from gas drilling on public lands. Interior is also pushing for more roads in wilderness areas, dialing back conservation plans for wildlife, and selling leases for Arctic oil and gas drilling. The agency canceled a study looking into the health impacts of coal mining and dismissed violations committed by coal companies. Taken together, it's pretty clear who Zinke is working for. However, the Trump administration has the odd habit of stumbling over itself. President Donald Trump's trade war is already threatening to undo gains for the fossil fuel industry as China readies tariffs on US energy. Zinke himself tendencies exhibited by former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt that have invited scrutiny from lawmakers. He's opaque with his schedule, obscuring his dealings with the energy industry. He took a $12,000 flight on an oil executive's charter plane. He was involved in a land deal with the chair of Halliburton, which may have violated conflict of interest rules. The Government Accountability Office had to end a probe in June into whether Zinke threatened Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) over her vote on Obamacare because the Interior Department didn't cooperate. He also has his office fly a secretarial flag when he's in the building and minted his own challenge coin. With Pruitt no longer sucking the oxygen out of the room, congressional Democrats are now eyeing Zinke and have promised more investigations of his conduct should they take control of the House in the fall." inke is one the most ethically challenged members of the Cabinet and maybe one of the most ethically challenged secretaries of the Interior we've had in living memory," Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA), who could chair the House Oversight Government Operations Subcommittee if Democrats win in November, told Politico this week. "[There's] rich material here to look into his behavior and his fitness for continued service in the office."	True
593	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-04-13	o an unprecedented extent, the Agency withheld fundamental information purporting to justify the Rule, UWAG argued, adding that included "pages of the record that demonstrably were not entitled to confidential treatment."	have decided that it is appropriate and in the public interest to reconsider the rule," Pruitt wrote in a letter sent Wednesday to counsel for a utility group and officials at the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA)."	Environmentalists were, obviously, outraged by Pruitt's decision."	Pruitt was responding to a petition sent by the Utility Water Action Group (UWAG), urging the Trump administration to rescind its "Effluent Limitations Guidelines" for coal-fired power plants.	For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].		EPA Considers Repealing Another Obama-Era Coal Regulation Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt told business advocates the agency will reconsider a rule utilities worry could force more coal-fired power plants to close."  have decided that it is appropriate and in the public interest to reconsider the rule," Pruitt wrote in a letter sent Wednesday to counsel for a utility group and officials at the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA)." he EPA is acting promptly to issue an administrative stay of the compliance dates in the rule that have not yet passed pending judicial review," Pruitt wrote regarding an EPA regulation on liquid waste from coal plants. Pruitt was responding to a petition sent by the Utility Water Action Group (UWAG), urging the Trump administration to rescind its "Effluent Limitations Guidelines" for coal-fired power plants. UWAG argues the regulation will "cause negative impacts on jobs due to the excessive costs of compliance – which were grossly underestimated by EPA – and regulatory burdens forcing plant closures." UWAG said EPA underestimated the rule's costs and withheld records about the rulemaking from utilities who would have to comply with the rule, which the agency estimates could cost up to $2.5 billion a year." o an unprecedented extent, the Agency withheld fundamental information purporting to justify the Rule, UWAG argued, adding that included "pages of the record that demonstrably were not entitled to confidential treatment." The EPA said in legal filings it withheld records to protect confidential business information. Pruitt said EPA would reconsider the ELG rule based on UWAG's concerns. It's the latest move by the Trump administration to ease the regulatory burden on the coal industry. President Donald Trump promised to lessen regulations on coal mines to put miners back to work. Trump has already signed executive orders to rescind EPA and Interior Department regulations on coal production and power generation. Most recently, Trump ordered the EPA to review the Clean Power Plan, which limits carbon dioxide emissions from new and existing power plants. That rule was also expected to force more coal plants to prematurely shut down. Environmentalists were, obviously, outraged by Pruitt's decision." rump's attempt to halt these clean water protections for mercury, lead, and arsenic from coal power plants is dangerous and irresponsible," said Mary Anne Hitt, the director of the Sierra Club's "Beyond Coal" campaign. The Obama administration finalized the ELG rule in 2015 and it went into effect in January 2016. The rule requires coal plants to install new equipment to curb pollution from wastewater streams. Utilities, including UWAG, took EPA to court to have the rule overturned. UWAG and others argued the rule violated the Clean Water Act and Administrative Procedures Act. Aside from arguing EPA improperly withheld data on how they came up with the rule, plaintiffs argued the agency didn't perform proper testing to see if requiring coal plants to install new equipment would meet federal pollution guidelines. Environmentalists fought to keep the rule in place, and Pruitt can expect legal challenges if EPA tries to repeal the ELG rule." rump claimed he wanted EPA to go 'back to basics' and focus on clean air and water in his Administration, but one of the first actions by his EPA Administrator is an attempt to gut an important water pollution safeguard," Hitt said. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	False
147	motherjones	left_bias	2019-06-27	Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because "climate change is an issue that affects every other issue: agriculture, the economy, including tourism."	She recalls a friend saying, "Who wants to go to Disney when it's 105 degrees outside?"	Melissa Baldwin, co-organizer of Miami Climate Month, which organized the rally, says from the moment she and her fellow organizers found out the first debate would be in Miami, they wanted to "put a spotlight on climate change, because you can't come to Miami without talking about climate change."	Climate change and fossil fuels have already disturbed the daily lives of Floridians.	Activists Outside the 2020 Debate Are Demanding That Climate Change Take Center Stage Just a few hours before the second round of 2020 Democratic presidential contenders are set to face off, dozens of local activists in Miami, Florida held an "Underwater Climate Rally," calling for more discussion about climate change at the second Democratic debate.		Activists Outside the 2020 Debate Are Demanding That Climate Change Take Center Stage Just a few hours before the second round of 2020 Democratic presidential contenders are set to face off, dozens of local activists in Miami, Florida held an "Underwater Climate Rally," calling for more discussion about climate change at the second Democratic debate. A coalition of local environmental groups organized the march to the Arsht Center in Miami, where this round of debates is being held, with marchers sporting signs calling for a specific climate change debate and pushing for the Green New Deal. Melissa Baldwin, co-organizer of Miami Climate Month, which organized the rally, says from the moment she and her fellow organizers found out the first debate would be in Miami, they wanted to "put a spotlight on climate change, because you can't come to Miami without talking about climate change." Climate change and fossil fuels have already disturbed the daily lives of Floridians. Sea level rise and warming temperatures threaten cities like Miami. Kim Ross, ReThink Energy Florida leader, resident witnessed people in her community in Tallahassee feeling helpless after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster, which damaged Gulf Coast ecosystems." his isn't something in the future," Ross says. "This is something that's happening now and needs to be addressed now." At the first 2020 Democratic debate on Wednesday night, Democrats spent less than 10 minutes talking about climate change. Though not an extensive conversation, that was still more time spent talking about climate change than in all of three debates combined between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump in 2016. Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because "climate change is an issue that affects every other issue: agriculture, the economy, including tourism." She recalls a friend saying, "Who wants to go to Disney when it's 105 degrees outside?"	False
49	foxnews	right_bias	2019-11-04	They rely for so much, and we would be giving them so little."	Our results speak for themselves," he wrote.	CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPIn his statement Monday, however, Pompeo maintained that the United States was on the right track both economically and environmentally."	GRETA THUNBERG TURNS DOWN ENVIRONMENTAL PRIZE, SAYS 'CLIMATE MOVEMENT DOES NOT NEED ANY MORE AWARDS'"Half of the countries that were legally bound to the Kyoto Protocol treaty failed to adhere to their pledges, and the host country of Japan even increased their carbon emissions," Sen. Jim Inhofe, R-Okla., said as the Paris climate agreement was being debated in 2016.	"The United States has reduced all types of emissions, even as we grow our economy and ensure our citizens' access to affordable energy."		United States begins process of withdrawing from Paris climate deal The United States submitted a formal notification that it will withdraw from the Paris climate agreement, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced Monday, a move that has been widely expected since President Trump announced his intention to do so in 2017. The climate agreement, which went into force Nov. 4, 2016, committed countries that signed the measure to take certain voluntary steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The agreement was not legally enforceable and countries set their own emissions targets. The accord banned countries from announcing their intent to withdraw in its first three years, meaning Monday was the first day the U.S. was allowed to submit its intent to leave the agreement since it went into force in 2016." President Trump made the decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement because of the unfair economic burden imposed on American workers, businesses, and taxpayers by U.S. pledges made under the Agreement," Pompeo said in a statement. "The United States has reduced all types of emissions, even as we grow our economy and ensure our citizens' access to affordable energy." LEONARDO DICAPRIO PRAISES GRETA THUNBERG AS 'A LEADER OF OUR TIME'Trump has previously said that the Paris climate agreement harms the U.S. economy and would hurt American jobs if left to stand." Compliance with the terms of the Paris accord and the onerous energy restrictions it has placed on the United States could cost America as much as 2.7 million lost jobs by 2025 according to the National Economic Research Associates," Trump said in the Rose Garden in 2017 when he announced plans to remove the U.S. from the accord. "This includes 440,000 fewer manufacturing jobs — not what we need — believe me, this is not what we need — including automobile jobs, and the further decimation of vital American industries on which countless communities rely. They rely for so much, and we would be giving them so little." Some opponents of the agreement have noted that countries such as Russia and China were not affected as significantly by the accord as the United States and pointed out the unencouraging results of the Kyoto Protocol, raising questions about whether the Paris agreement would reduce global greenhouse gas emissions at all. GRETA THUNBERG TURNS DOWN ENVIRONMENTAL PRIZE, SAYS 'CLIMATE MOVEMENT DOES NOT NEED ANY MORE AWARDS'"Half of the countries that were legally bound to the Kyoto Protocol treaty failed to adhere to their pledges, and the host country of Japan even increased their carbon emissions," Sen. Jim Inhofe, R-Okla., said as the Paris climate agreement was being debated in 2016. "Now we find ourselves celebrating an agreement where the world's largest carbon emitter, China, is permitted to increase their emissions until 2025 and to continue bringing a coal-fired power plant online every 10 days. We even turn a blind eye to the fact that China lied about its carbon emissions when it first came to the table with its pledge last year." Others, however, see America backing out of the international pact to limit greenhouse gas emissions as an abdication of global leadership and denial of basic climate science." By withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement to double-down on a coal & fossil fuel energy agenda, Trump has engaged in a unilateral disarmament in the economic arms race that is the transition to clean energy," said Michael Mann, a climate scientist and professor at Penn State University. "The challenge of averting dangerous and irreversible climate change and massive coastal inundation, devastating floods and droughts, is that much more an uphill climb with Trump's pullout from the Paris agreement." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPIn his statement Monday, however, Pompeo maintained that the United States was on the right track both economically and environmentally." Our results speak for themselves," he wrote. "U.S. emissions of criteria air pollutants that impact human health and the environment declined by 74 percent between 1970 and 2018. U.S. net greenhouse gas emissions dropped 13 percent from 2005-2017, even as our economy grew over 19 percent."	False
370	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-09-02	This has to do with active forest management."	"But there's been a change in fire behavior over the last century, as the state and federal government began dousing the blazes.	"This has nothing to do with climate change.	Combined with drought, insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate, those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality," the op-ed continues.	Jerry Brown partnered with state lawmakers to introduce changes to the state's policies.		The LA Times Inadvertently Admits Trump Is Right About What's Causing California's Massive Wildfires Adopting more active forest management policies such as increased thinning of trees and conducting controlled burns will help mitigate damage from future wildfires, the Los Angeles Times editorial board writes. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke began advocating similar policy prescriptions earlier in 2018 after President Donald Trump blamed California's "bad environmental laws" for creating a wildfire-prone environment. (RELATED: Trump Administration Is Taking Its Fight Against 'Bad Environmental Laws' Straight To California)California forests have grown drier and less healthy from overcrowded trees, infestations of bark beetles and the effects of climate change, the LA Times writes. California's restrictions on active forest management have contributed to the poor and worsening conditions of the forests, allowing them to grow uninhibited while suppressing fires that would normally naturally control the forests' growth." ire is not necessarily bad for forests. California used to burn with regularity, and low-intensity fires are vital in some ecosystems to clear excess brush and small trees from the landscape," the editorial board writes. "But there's been a change in fire behavior over the last century, as the state and federal government began dousing the blazes. Decades of fire suppression have allowed forests to grow dense with trees." Combined with drought, insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate, those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality," the op-ed continues. California's environmental laws entered the national spotlight in early August when Trump blamed them for the severity of the wildfires that were ravaging the state. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke was soon at the front of the administration's push for California to begin adopting more active land management policies. Zinke traveled to California to see the damage from the fires and meet with local officials and firefighters Aug. 13. Zinke ramped up calls for greater forest thinning while also dismissing the idea that climate change is playing a significant factor in the wildfires' intensity. (RELATED: Ryan Zinke Shifts The Wildfire Debate From Global Warming To Anti-Logging 'Environmental Terrorists')"I've heard the climate change argument back and forth," Zinke told Sacramento-based KCRA. "This has nothing to do with climate change. This has to do with active forest management." California Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown partnered with state lawmakers to introduce changes to the state's policies. The bill would grant $1 billion toward forest thinning and ease regulations on cutting trees on private property, according to the LA Times.	False
95	talkingpointsmemo	left_bias	2019-02-07	She calls for a "World War II-scale mobilization" that includes high-quality education and health care, clean air and water and safe, affordable housing.	Ocasio-Cortez said in a statement that the plan will create "unprecedented levels of prosperity and wealth for all while ensuring economic and environmental justice and security."	She also cites Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal, Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society and the interstate highway system begun under Dwight D. Eisenhower as examples of American know-how and capability.	While setting lofty goals, the plan does not explicitly call for eliminating the use of fossil fuels such as oil and natural gas, a nod to pragmatism that may disappoint some of Ocasio-Cortez's strongest supporters.	Government can take an equity stake in Green New Deal projects "so the public gets a return on its investment," she said.		Democrats Mobilize On Green New Deal WASHINGTON (AP) — Democrats including Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York are calling for a Green New Deal intended to transform the U.S. economy to combat climate change and create thousands of jobs in renewable energy. The freshman lawmaker and veteran Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts are teaming up on the plan, which aims to eliminate the U.S. carbon footprint by 2030.A joint resolution drafted by Ocasio-Cortez and Markey sets a goal to meet "100 percent of the power demand in the United States through clean, renewable and zero-emission energy sources," including dramatic increases in wind and solar power.A news conference at the Capitol is set for Thursday, the day they introduce the resolution. While setting lofty goals, the plan does not explicitly call for eliminating the use of fossil fuels such as oil and natural gas, a nod to pragmatism that may disappoint some of Ocasio-Cortez's strongest supporters. Even so, their Green New Deal goes far beyond the Clean Power Plan proposed by President Barack Obama. President Donald Trump has scrapped Obama's plan, which imposed emissions limits on coal-fired power plants, as a job-killer. The Democrats are likely to meet resistance to their proposal in Congress, especially in the Republican-controlled Senate. Trump, who has expressed doubts about climate change, also is likely to oppose it. The resolution marks the first time Ocasio-Cortez and other lawmakers have attached legislative language onto the Green New Deal, a concept that until now has been largely undefined other than as a call for urgent action to head off catastrophic climate change and create jobs. Several Democratic presidential hopefuls have embraced the idea of a Green New Deal without saying exactly what it means. Ocasio-Cortez said in a statement that the plan will create "unprecedented levels of prosperity and wealth for all while ensuring economic and environmental justice and security." She calls for a "World War II-scale mobilization" that includes high-quality education and health care, clean air and water and safe, affordable housing. Answering critics who call the plan unrealistic, Ocasio-Cortez says that when President John F. Kennedy wanted to go to the moon by the end of the 1960s, "people said it was impossible." She also cites Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal, Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society and the interstate highway system begun under Dwight D. Eisenhower as examples of American know-how and capability. While focusing on renewable energy, Ocasio-Cortez said the plan would include existing nuclear power plants but block new nuclear plants. Nuclear power does not emit greenhouse gases, which contribute to global warming. The resolution does not include a price tag, but some Republicans predict it would cost in the trillions of dollars. They denounced the plan at House hearings on climate change on Wednesday. The Green New Deal would be paid for "the same way we paid for the original New Deal, World War II, the bank bailouts, tax cuts for the rich and decades of war — with public money appropriated by Congress," Ocasio-Cortez said. Government can take an equity stake in Green New Deal projects "so the public gets a return on its investment," she said.	False
675	CNN	left_bias	2017-08-02	"I'm not a scientist, but I'm a keen observer," Eskridge said.	I'm just not seeing it."	The town hall featured people across the country who challenged Gore on the issue or asked his thoughts.	But Gore's -- and Ivanka's -- influence clearly was not enough.	Gore said it was hard to translate what scientists said into something readily observable and believable.		Al Gore presses on with climate change action in the Trump era "I actually did feel there was a real chance that he might come to his senses and stay in the Paris Agreement," said Gore, who has spent years in pursuit of action on climate change and on Tuesday joined CNN for a town hall, moderated by Anderson Cooper. Gore met with Trump after the 2016 election at the invitation of Ivanka Trump, and he spoke again with the President by phone in early May. But Gore's -- and Ivanka's -- influence clearly was not enough. After some delay, Trump announced in the Rose Garden in June that he intended to pull the United States out of the climate agreement. Gore declined to get into the details of his private conversations with Trump, but said those conversations had left him with "reason to believe" Trump would keep the United States in the agreement, but added that thankfully his worst fears about the withdrawal were not realized."I was worried that other countries might use it as an excuse to pull out themselves," Gore said. "But I was gratified when the next day the entire rest of the world doubled down on the commitment to meet the terms of the Paris Agreement, and then in this country, so many governors and mayors and business leaders said, 'We're still in.'"Gore said that even with Trump's decision, the United States could still manage to meet its own commitments under the Paris Agreement. The town hall featured people across the country who challenged Gore on the issue or asked his thoughts. Mayor James Eskridge of Tangier Island, Virginia, said his home town needed a sea wall to fight erosion, but claimed sea-level rise was not affecting them. "I'm not a scientist, but I'm a keen observer," Eskridge said. "And if sea level rise is occurring, why am I not seeing signs of it?" Earth to warm 2 degrees Celsius by the end of this century, studies say Gore said he was aware of the town's situation, and said the town was losing ground to rising seas. Tangier Island gained national prominence after Trump called Eskridge in response to a CNN piece on the town. "Arguments about science aren't necessarily going to be of any comfort to you," Gore said. "Won't necessarily do you any good for me to tell you that the scientists do say the sea level is rising in the Chesapeake Bay, and that you've lost about two-thirds of your island already." Eskridge stood by his claim, saying, "If I see sea-level rise occurring, I'll shout it from the house top. ... I'm just not seeing it." Gore said it was hard to translate what scientists said into something readily observable and believable. "I try every day to figure out ways to do that," he said. Gore warned there could be visible signs of a changing climate, including stronger hurricanes due to rising ocean temperatures. "As the oceans get warmer, these ocean based storms get a lot stronger," he said. "There may not be more hurricanes, but the ones that do come are on average likely to be much stronger." However, Gore insisted that there is still time to act, despite challenges that may lie ahead "in adapting to what we can't avoid." "We still have the ability to slow it down. We have the ability to prevent even worse sea level rise and and even worse catastrophes that are also caused by the climate crisis," Gore said.	False
405	politicususa	left_bias	2018-11-23	Severe weather and other impacts also increase the risk of disease transmission, decrease air quality, and can increase mental health problems, among other effects.	Environmental groups said the report reinforced their calls for the United States to take action on climate change."	The report, the Fourth National Climate Assessment Volume II, supplements a study issued last year that concluded humans are the main driver of global warming, and which warned of potentially catastrophic effects to the planet.	The Congressionally-mandated report, written with the help of more than a dozen U.S. government agencies and departments, outlined the projected impacts of global warming in every corner of American society, in a dire warning at odds with the Trump administration's pro-fossil fuels agenda."	The entire report can be viewed at		U.S. report says climate change will batter economy, in clash with Trump (Reuters) – Climate change will cost the U.S. economy hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century, damaging everything from human health to infrastructure and agricultural production, according to a government report issued on Friday. The Congressionally-mandated report, written with the help of more than a dozen U.S. government agencies and departments, outlined the projected impacts of global warming in every corner of American society, in a dire warning at odds with the Trump administration's pro-fossil fuels agenda." ith continued growth in emissions at historic rates, annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century – more than the current gross domestic product (GDP) of many U.S. states," according to the report. It said global warming would disproportionately hurt the poor, broadly undermine human health, damage infrastructure, limit the availability of water, alter coastlines, and boost costs in industries from farming to energy production. While it said that many of the impacts of climate change – including more frequent and more powerful storms, droughts and flooding – are already underway, the projections of further damage could change if greenhouse gas emissions are sharply curbed: "Future risks from climate change depend primarily on decisions made today," it said. The report, the Fourth National Climate Assessment Volume II, supplements a study issued last year that concluded humans are the main driver of global warming, and which warned of potentially catastrophic effects to the planet. The studies clash with policy under President Donald Trump, who has been rolling back Obama-era environmental and climate protections to maximize production of domestic fossil fuels, including crude oil, already the highest in the world, above Saudi Arabia and Russia. Trump last year announced his intention to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris Deal agreed by nearly 200 nations to combat climate change, arguing the accord would hurt the U.S. economy and provide little tangible environmental benefit. Trump and several members of his cabinet have also repeatedly cast doubt on the science of climate change, arguing the causes and impacts are not yet settled. White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Environmental groups said the report reinforced their calls for the United States to take action on climate change." his report makes it clear that climate change is not some problem in the distant future. It's happening right now in every part of the country," said Brenda Ekwurzel, the director of climate science at the Union of Concerned Scientists and one of the report's authors. Previous research, including from U.S. government scientists, has also concluded that climate change could have severe economic consequences, including damage to infrastructure, water supplies and agriculture. Severe weather and other impacts also increase the risk of disease transmission, decrease air quality, and can increase mental health problems, among other effects. Thirteen government departments and agencies, from the Agriculture Department to NASA, were part of the committee that compiled the new report. The entire report can be viewed at	False
72	thedailycaller	right_bias	2019-02-07	org.	The resolution calls for a World War II-style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations.	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others.	Methane makes up 10 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for global warming.		'Green New Deal' Looks To Tackle The Scourge Of Cow Flatulence Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's newly-released "Green New Deal" resolution has gotten a lot of attention for its 100 percent renewable energy goal, but the bill also vaguely references another source of emissions. The resolution calls for a World War II-style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations. If that's the case, that means any subsequent "Green New Deal" legislation would have to deal with a major source of methane emissions — cow flatulence. Methane makes up 10 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for global warming. Enteric fermentation, the digestive process in cows and other ruminant animals, is the largest source of U.S. methane emissions, according to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) data. EPA says "cattle account for the majority of [methane] emissions in the United States for this source category," referring to emissions from enteric fermentation. (RELATED: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez: 'Green New Deal Is About Social Justice')Being a non-binding resolution, the "Green New Deal" doesn't offer any specifics on how livestock emissions would be phased down or eliminated. The question then becomes: How do you eliminate emissions from cows, sheep and other animals?Certainly, environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of people's diets in the name of the climate, but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health. Some scientists have looked into reducing flatulence from ruminant animals. The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others. The Obama administration released a plan to clamp down on methane emissions in 2014, which included programs to cut emissions from dairy operations. Republican lawmakers worried the Obama-era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers. Methane is a more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide, but makes up a much smaller slice of America's emissions profile. Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane, which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
263	rt	questionable_source	2019-03-03	Think your friends would be interested?	The 'world as it is' has the option of taking the subway rather than a taxi," Moore continued.	"You're just a garden-variety hypocrite like the others.	Share this story!	An early overview of the plan, since removed from Ocasio-Cortez' website, promised "economic security for all who are unable or unwilling to work," swore to sideline the private sector in all environmental decision-making, and even vowed to eliminate "farting cows."		'Pompous twit will get us all killed': AOC tweet-tacked over Green New Deal by ex-Greenpeace founder Greenpeace founder turned climate change skeptic Patrick Moore has reignited his feud with Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, calling her a "pompous little twit" and "garden-variety hypocrite" in a barrage of tweets. Moore helped found the veteran eco-organization in the 1970s, before parting ways with his fellow activists over their left-wing politics and becoming an advocate for nuclear power and lobbyist for the forestry industry. Lately, he has been tussling with New York Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez over the 'Green New Deal,' an ambitious piece of environmental legislation that seeks to dramatically overhaul America's energy sector and economy in a bid to slash carbon output. Moore began picking the Green New Deal apart in February, ridiculing its promise to remove "greenhouse gases from the atmosphere." Technically," he stated, "this would mean removing all H2O vapour and all CO2 which would mean the eradication of all life on Earth." The legislation has been ridiculed from all sides for its proposed abolition of air travel and fossil fuel powered vehicles, as well as its estimated cost of over $50 trillion, over twice the worth of the entire US economy. Ocasio-Cortez has stuck to her guns, however. In a tweet, the Bronx Democrat told skeptics "If you don't like the Green New Deal, then come up with your own ambitious, on-scale proposal... until then, we're in charge." Moore hit back, calling AOC a "pompous little twit" and claiming that "if fossil fuels were banned every tree in the world would be cut down for fuel for cooking and heating. You would bring about mass death." More recently, a New York Post hit-piece lambasted Ocasio-Cortez for using cars to get around while campaigning in New York instead of the subway system. "I also fly and use A/C," Ocasio-Cortez responded. "Living in the world as it is isn't an argument against working towards a better future." The 'world as it is' has the option of taking the subway rather than a taxi," Moore continued. "You're just a garden-variety hypocrite like the others. And you have ZERO expertise at any of the things you pretend to know," he tweeted on Sunday, before calling AOC an "immature bully." Ocasio-Cortez' more mainstream Democrat colleagues have paid lip-service to the Green New Deal, but have been cautious about declaring support for the plan. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi brushed it aside in an interview with Rolling Stone on Thursday, saying it "goes beyond what our charge is." In addition to slashing carbon emissions, the deal calls for widespread wealth redistribution to "counteract systemic injustices," and includes provisions for universal healthcare and taxpayer-funded college tuition. An early overview of the plan, since removed from Ocasio-Cortez' website, promised "economic security for all who are unable or unwilling to work," swore to sideline the private sector in all environmental decision-making, and even vowed to eliminate "farting cows." Republicans argue that the deal is tantamount to full-blown socialism. Its more outlandish provisions have turned it into a punching bag for the GOP, who have sought to paint the Democratic party as the party of socialist totalitarianism ahead of next year's election. After referring to AOC as a raving "lunatic," President Donald Trump said on Saturday that the deal "is the new Democrat platform, and I don't want to talk them out of it...I want them to embrace this plan. I just want to be the Republican who runs against them." Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False
485	usatoday	left_center_bias	2018-12-31	"The shift from 'future problem' to 'now crisis' is being fueled by blockbuster scientific reports and blockbuster real-world catastrophes."	That is rapidly changing how Americans think about it," David Doniger with the Natural Resources Defense Council wrote in a recent blog.	"I talk to our kids and young people all the time, and they are more environmentally sensitive, they're more pro-alternative energy, they get the natural gas thing instead of coal."	We need to be reaching out to broaden our base, and if you look at this last election, our base is narrowing unfortunately," he said.	Climate change is here and now.		Climate change: Democrats see Trump, GOP inaction as 2020 opportunity WASHINGTON –  Environmental advocates say now is the time for decisive action on climate change. Democrats won the House in November riding a platform that included a call to address the crisis. Global warming was blamed for intensifying natural disasters that killed dozens and cost billions of dollars across the country in 2018. A recent avalanche of evidence that the climate is already changing radically has hardened the case for immediate action." Climate change is here and now. And palpably getting worse. That is rapidly changing how Americans think about it," David Doniger with the Natural Resources Defense Council wrote in a recent blog. "The shift from 'future problem' to 'now crisis' is being fueled by blockbuster scientific reports and blockbuster real-world catastrophes." And yet few – including Doniger – expect Washington to do much any time soon in the dramatic way scientists are urging. President Donald Trump, who in 2017 yanked the U.S. out of the Paris Accord on climate change, continues to doubt the science and says radical action would only hurt the economy. At an international climate conference in Poland in December, his emissaries doubled down on the expansion of fossil fuels, notably coal. And while incoming House Democratic leaders vow to make climate change a priority when they take control Thursday, their most ambitious proposals are expected to die in the GOP-controlled Senate, where Republicans remain resistant to far-reaching steps aimed at weaning the nation off carbon. So for Democrats and their environmental allies, the next two years in Washington are likely to be more about making a case to voters than actually scoring significant victories on climate change, said Bob Shrum, a longtime Democratic strategist who teaches political science at the University of Southern California."I don't think Trump's going to give an inch on this," he said. "I think we'll be at a stalemate (for the next two years). But I think Democrats can prepare the ground, can win the argument and can go into 2020 on these issues in a pretty strong position." Studies suggest there isn't much time for politicking on the issue. Some of the effects are already taking place, according to a landmark climate assessment the administration released in November. Climate change is contributing to extreme weather conditions,  the spread of new diseases by insects and pests and changes to the availability of food and water, the researchers say. But the dire warning has done little to prod Capitol Hill Republicans, many of whom still question the science behind climate change. Reluctant to cross Trump, they barely discuss the issue these days compared to three years ago, according to an analysis of press releases, floor statements, tweets and Facebook posts by software firm Quorom. When Republicans do talk about it, the refrain is that innovation and incentive alone can solve the issue. One of the most notable achievements they tout was passage of a tax credit to encourage the capture and storage of carbon emissions into the ground before they become airborne and contribute to global warming. More: El Niños to strengthen because of global warming, will cause 'more extreme weather', study saysMore: Emissions of carbon dioxide into Earth's atmosphere reach record highBut they roundly oppose dramatic steps, such as a carbon tax, to cut the nation off fossil fuels because it would increase the cost of energy. Wyoming GOP Sen. John Barrasso, chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and a sponsor of the carbon capture legislation, opposes such "punishing regulations." Making energy as clean as we can, as fast as we can, without raising costs to consumers will be accomplished through investment, invention and innovation," Barrasso wrote in a column for The New York Times. With carbon capture, clean energy development and other advances, the reliance on fossil fuels must stop as well if the planet has any hope of meeting the net-zero carbon emissions goal by 2050 that scientists cite as a minimum to stave off the worst effects of a warming globe." That's a one-two punch we need to solve the climate crisis," said Conrad Schneider, advocacy Director for the Clean Air Task Force, a nonprofit organization pushing for carbon emission reduction. "Neither alone is going to get it done." One of the few congressional Republicans willing to support a carbon tax is Florida Rep. Francis Rooney. Representing one of the country's reddest districts, the former businessman from Oklahoma is a pro-Trump conservative on most issues. But on climate change, he is is an unflinching opponent, largely because rising sea levels threaten his home state."I don't think we need to burn coal," Rooney said. "A carbon tax is the most market-oriented, nonbureaucratic, efficient way I can see to kill off coal." And Rooney said the intransigence most of his fellow Republicans, including President Trump, display on the issue is harmful to the GOP brand – and could come back to haunt them in 2020." We need to be reaching out to broaden our base, and if you look at this last election, our base is narrowing unfortunately," he said. "I talk to our kids and young people all the time, and they are more environmentally sensitive, they're more pro-alternative energy, they get the natural gas thing instead of coal." Tom Steyer, the liberal California billionaire who is mulling a presidential run in 2020, believes climate change – and Republicans' refusal to follow experts' advice despite the dire warnings – will help Democrats sweep into office two years from now." When we talk about what's at stake here, we're talking about unimaginable suffering by the American people unless we solve the problem over the next 12 years," he said recently. " And I think that we're very far from doing that. And it is unclear to me that we can summon that will without having substantial political victories across the board."	False
875	Breitbart	questionable_source	2017-04-26	com	It recommends that the world cut emissions to a "net zero" by the year 2050 to hold back global heating.	According to the ETC website, the group's goal is to "accelerate change towards low-carbon energy systems that enable robust economic development and limit the rise in global temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius."	The chief avenue the group advocates to cut global warming is to force governments around the world to place an ever growing tax on carbon emissions as a means to force change in energy policy.	The group is made up of energy company executives, activists, investment bankers, Al Gore, and others who would financially benefit from the immense influx of  funds, the Daily Caller reports.		Al Gore-Backed Group Demands Countries Kick In $15 Trillion to Fight Global Warming In its report, ETC insists that "investments" of up to $500 billion per annum would not "pose a major macroeconomic challenge" to nations accepting the call to fund the project. The group is made up of energy company executives, activists, investment bankers, Al Gore, and others who would financially benefit from the immense influx of  funds, the Daily Caller reports. According to the ETC website, the group's goal is to "accelerate change towards low-carbon energy systems that enable robust economic development and limit the rise in global temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius." The chief avenue the group advocates to cut global warming is to force governments around the world to place an ever growing tax on carbon emissions as a means to force change in energy policy. The punishing taxes, they say, would cause the energy industry to seriously explore alternate energy sources and cut back use of fossil fuels. It recommends that the world cut emissions to a "net zero" by the year 2050 to hold back global heating. The group also calls for direct investment in green energy. ETC claims that the world must fund "investment in renewables and other low-carbon technologies some $6 trillion higher ($300 billion per year); while the largest required increases – of almost $9 trillion ($450 billion per year) – will be in more efficient energy saving equipment and buildings." ETC has focused its activism on the Paris climate agreement, which President Obama signed onto without Senate approval. The plan was to take effect in 2016, but since coming to office President Trump has put a hold on much of the country's compliance with the agreement. Trump has also begun considering whether or not to completely pull out of the agreement. Trump's Environmental Protection Agency chief, Scott Pruitt, has urged the president to exit the agreement and at least one climate scientist, Dr. Duane Thresher, has warned Trump not to cave in to his daughter's "climate change madness." Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com	False
154	motherjones	left_bias	2019-04-07	He united a biological and social vision for forestry, one where human happiness and decent livelihoods might sprout from robust forests.	Marshall's closing line argues for that perspective: "The time has come when we must discard the unsocial view that our woods are the lumbermen's and substitute the broader ideal that every acre of woodland in the country is rightly a part of the people's forests."	In articulating that vision, he made his socialist case plain: "The fundamental advantage of public ownership of forests over private ownership is that in the former social welfare is substituted for private gain as the major objective of management."	Much the way today's Green New Deal seeks to redress both economic and environmental impoverishment, Marshall sought to replace private profit with a broader public spiritedness that aimed for long-term stability, ending cut-and-run practices and ultimately strengthening communities.	One prominent example—Bob Marshall's argument for nationalizing forests during the 1930s—reveals how socialist solutions emerge from specific contexts and problems, not ideological bunkers.		Critics of the Green New Deal Rail Against Socialism. We've Seen This Before. This story was originally published by High Country News and is shared here as part of the Climate Desk collaboration. The Green New Deal and its proponents aim to tackle the intertwined issues of social and environmental justice in our age of anthropogenic climate change. To accomplish this, they believe they must deploy the federal government, since it is the only institution large enough to coordinate and invest in the necessary policies. But the idea of expanding the role of government has attracted critics, who rail against socialism. To historians, this sounds familiar. This is not the first time socialism, new deals and the environment have intersected. During the catastrophe of the Great Depression of the 1930s, the federal government similarly attempted to ameliorate social and environmental harms by investing in people and places through the New Deal. Then, as now, critics dismissed it as socialism. The "socialist" sobriquet stokes ideological fires but douses historical understanding. One prominent example—Bob Marshall's argument for nationalizing forests during the 1930s—reveals how socialist solutions emerge from specific contexts and problems, not ideological bunkers. In Marshall's case, the dire state of private timberlands in the early 20th century prompted his call for reform. When massive problems develop, cross jurisdictional lines and are associated with market failures, big government responses can seem like the only possible solution. By the early 20th century, hundreds of years of unregulated cutting had ravaged the nation's forests, and Americans faced a crisis that demanded intervention. "Rocks and mountains may be ageless, but men and society are emphatically of the present, and they cannot wait for the slow process of nature to retrieve the catastrophe caused by their unthinking destructiveness," wrote Marshall, a forester for federal agencies throughout his career, a co-founder of The Wilderness Society and the person for whom Montana's Bob Marshall Wilderness Area is named.A massive evaluation of American forestry conducted by the Forest Service in 1932 both shaped and reflected Marshall's views. Appearing the next year, A National Plan for American Forestry, known as the Copeland Report, showed that private forests were failing. (The majority of the nation's timber came from privately held forests, just as it does today.) They burned more often, were not harvested to provide a "continual crop of timber," failed to protect watersheds and offered few recreational opportunities compared to public forests. They caused social problems, too, with lumber workers doing dangerous, transient jobs that resulted in mangled bodies and left hollowed-out towns behind. As Marshall saw it, "The private owner is thus responsible for almost every serious forest problem." So, Marshall argued that American timberlands should be publicly owned. In 1933, four years into the Depression and during the first year of Franklin D. Roosevelt's presidency, Marshall published The People's Forests, his own radical extension of the Copeland Report, which advocated for public ownership of practically all commercial forests in America. He was writing amid an economic catastrophe mirrored in the nation's wild and rural landscapes, where bankrupted farmers, out-of-work loggers and drought-driven refugees were common, not unlike today. Throughout The People's Forests, Marshall showed how private ownership, even when tempered by public regulation, fell short; only full public ownership could keep forests and communities healthy. He united a biological and social vision for forestry, one where human happiness and decent livelihoods might sprout from robust forests. In articulating that vision, he made his socialist case plain: "The fundamental advantage of public ownership of forests over private ownership is that in the former social welfare is substituted for private gain as the major objective of management." Much the way today's Green New Deal seeks to redress both economic and environmental impoverishment, Marshall sought to replace private profit with a broader public spiritedness that aimed for long-term stability, ending cut-and-run practices and ultimately strengthening communities. Marshall's call for reforms reflected an accelerating trend of expanding public lands in the 1930s, when the federal government acquired millions of acres for national parks, national forests and wildlife refuges. Newly passed laws, like the Migratory Bird Hunting Stamp Act (1934) and the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act (1937), helped the government fund refuges, acquire property for conservation and bail out private owners who lived on wrecked lands. Starting around the same time and lasting until the 1950s, Forest Service administrators advocated for public regulation of logging on private land, principally citing concerns about declining timber production and the threat of fire on poorly managed parcels. Though ultimately unsuccessful, those efforts illustrated a push to establish stability amid unsettling crisis, a goal Marshall shared. When capitalism stumbles badly, producing degraded lands and gaping inequalities, socialistic solutions rise in popularity, because their incentives are not tied to profits. Marshall's closing line argues for that perspective: "The time has come when we must discard the unsocial view that our woods are the lumbermen's and substitute the broader ideal that every acre of woodland in the country is rightly a part of the people's forests." Shouting "socialist" as an epithet is a tired strategy, a failure to reckon with specific contexts and problems, whether it's damaged timberlands in the 1930s or rising sea levels today. The People's Forests and the Green New Deal highlight the ways social and environmental harms are woven together, a reminder that real solutions require a mutual untangling, and that — despite American history and politics' suspicion of true socialism — government necessarily holds many of the threads.	False
690	Vox	left_bias	2017-10-10	It's not just the future of the planet that's at stake here.	"Greenhouse gases are an enormous risk to human health.	The public health community should be there too.	For the White House, bolstering the coal industry seems to trump these other matters.	But what's largely been lost in the conversation is how much the attempt to repeal the regulation on carbon dioxide emissions will impact people's health.		Trump's war on climate policy is also a war on public health Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt is expected to sign a proposed rule on Tuesday that would roll back a key piece of President Obama's climate legacy. But what's largely been lost in the conversation is how much the attempt to repeal the regulation on carbon dioxide emissions will impact people's health. Pruitt wants to repeal Obama's Clean Power Plan, the signature Environmental Protection Agency policy that aims to cut emissions from existing US power plants — a big driver of climate change — 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. While the big focus of the plan was reducing carbon emissions, it also aimed to keep hundreds of thousands of tons of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide pollution out of the atmosphere. These greenhouse gases are not only harmful to the environment but also increase the risk of everything from asthma to heart disease. The Clean Power Plan, in other words, though never implemented, was a big win for health. According to the EPA, cutting exposure to particle pollution in the order the CPP does would have averted up to 3,600 premature deaths, 90,000 asthma attacks in children, and 1,700 heart attacks each year. Which means that the White House's move to repeal the Clean Power Plan "is a one-two punch to human health and the environment," said Georges Benjamin, executive director of the American Public Health Association. "Greenhouse gases are an enormous risk to human health. So this means we'll continue to be exposed to these gases, which exacerbate asthma, heart disease, strokes." According to the Global Burden of Disease project, more than 5 million people die worldwide each year because of air pollution — and emissions from coal-fired plants are a major risk factor here. It's one reason why health experts have been pushing policymakers to rapidly phase out of coal. For miners, the immediate health risks include black lung disease and scarring of the lung tissue. But the pollutants emitted when coal is processed — including sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, and mercury — have much more far-reaching effects on many more people. In one large study involving 450,000 Americans followed between 1982 and 2004, researchers found that increased exposure to the particles in fossil fuel emissions increased the risk of death from heart disease — and particles from coal burning were five times more damaging than other similar particles. Reducing emissions from coal-fired power plants also makes it easier to breathe. Over the past 30 years, the percentage of Americans with asthma has more than doubled, and climate change has been a significant driver of that trend. Air pollution triggers asthma attacks, contributing to lung abnormalities, particularly in the developing pulmonary systems of children. For the White House, bolstering the coal industry seems to trump these other matters. "The war on coal is over," Pruitt said Monday in Kentucky when he announced the move. For now, the environmental community and some state governments are expected to oppose the rule in federal courts. The public health community should be there too. Health isn't a big part of the conversation about Trump administration assault on climate change mitigation policies but it needs to be. It's not just the future of the planet that's at stake here.	False
726	The Huffington Post	left_bias	2017-10-11	"It's going to be a gradual and shared transition."	Yet the announcement garnered praise from three environmental groups that teamed up to pressure BNP Paribas to curtail support for fossil fuels that pose a particular threat of exacerbating climate change.	"As an international bank, our role is to help drive the energy transition and contribute to the decarbonization of the economy."	For a bank in the regulatory environment BNP Paribas is facing, an aggressive climate policy makes business sense.	The bank had not not yet calculated how many clients would be affected by the new policy, and could not immediately respond to questions about how much money is invested in the targeted sectors.		France's Biggest Bank Becomes The First To Cut Off Funding For Natural Gas Fracking BNP Paribas on Wednesday became the first big bank to pledge to stop financing natural gas fracking projects as part of a new policy cheered by environmentalists as having the greatest impact of any financial giant yet. Under the new policy, France's largest bank will refuse to lend to companies who generate more than half their revenue from fracked oil, gas or liquefied natural gas export terminals. The rules also apply to tar sands, considered one of the dirtiest sources of oil. Multinational banks, including BNP Paribas, began putting strict limits on funding for coal projects in 2015. At that point, coal was becoming an unprofitable investment, and banks faced mounting pressure from environmentalists to stop supporting the dirtiest fuels in the lead up the Paris climate agreement. Last month, JPMorgan Chase became the target of a new campaign urging it to end financing for companies that drill tar sands, a particularly dirty source of oil that forms the backbone of Canada's industry. Until now, no financial giant has clamped down on natural gas, which produces far less carbon dioxide than oil or coal. The fuel now provides most of the United States' electricity and is credited with reducing emissions by weaning the country off coal. That has allowed advocates to tout the gas as a critical tool in the transition from heavily-polluting fuels to renewable energy. But fracking ― an extraction technique that involves shooting a highly-pressurized chemical and sand-laced water into shale rock to extract oil and gas ― has become a lightning rod for environmentalists. It produces toxic wastewater and leaks emissions of methane, a far more most potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide. And the process of liquefying natural gas from vapor requires so much energy it ends up being as dirty as coal." he scientific literature on the climate impact of gas, especially fracked gas, is emerging," Jason Disterhoft, a senior campaigner at Rainforest Action Network, told HuffPost by phone. Now that the prices of solar and wind energy were plummeting, there's less need to use natural gas as a stepping stone between dirtier fossil fuels and renewables, he added. BNP Paribas offered few details on its new policy, including when it would go into effect, though it said it should have an update by the end of the year. Europe's second largest bank also said that companies could continue to receive backing if they lower the amount of revenue earned from fracking or tar sands to less than half their business. The exact ratio has not yet been decided, a spokeswoman said." ven though we're going to have this policy in place doesn't mean at the same time we'll right away cut all the clients that don't fall under it," Mylene Benmoussa, a BNP Paribas spokeswoman, told HuffPost by phone on Wednesday. "It's going to be a gradual and shared transition." The bank had not not yet calculated how many clients would be affected by the new policy, and could not immediately respond to questions about how much money is invested in the targeted sectors. France banned fracking in 2011. The country generates 11 percent of its electricity from gas, according to data from RTE, the French transmission operator. And the government in Paris announced plans last month to prohibit oil and gas production by 2040. For a bank in the regulatory environment BNP Paribas is facing, an aggressive climate policy makes business sense. Yet the announcement garnered praise from three environmental groups that teamed up to pressure BNP Paribas to curtail support for fossil fuels that pose a particular threat of exacerbating climate change. The trio includes the San Francisco-based Rainforest Action Network, the French chapter of Friends of Earth, and Save the Rio Grande Valley from Liquefied Natural Gas, a local Texas group protesting the construction of a liquefied natural gas terminal in the state's southern region. Still, the move represents a public relations victory for a bank plagued by scandals in recent years. In 2015, the company was ordered to pay $8.9 billion to the U.S. for violating sanctions against Sudan, Cuba and Iran. In June, three human rights groups accused BNP Paribas of complicity in the 1994 Rwandan genocide that killed more than 800,000 people. In July, the Federal Reserve fined the firm $246 million for its "unsafe and unsound practices" in foreign currency trading division, failing to crack down on employees who violated rules on sharing information with competitors." e're a long-standing partner to the energy sector and we're determined to support the transition to a more sustainable world," BNP Paribas CEO Jean-Laurent Bonnafé said in a statement. "As an international bank, our role is to help drive the energy transition and contribute to the decarbonization of the economy."	False
168	usatoday	left_center_bias	2019-02-28	While calling Wheeler "certainly qualified for this position," Collins said some of the policies he has proposed as acting administrator "are not in the best interest of our environment and public health, particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation.	"As you can see, we're continuing the president's agenda post-haste."	It's a sad day for public health and the EPA, but mission accomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries," Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group, said in a statement following the vote.	"They have longed for one of their own to call the shots at the agency, and now they finally have their man in Andrew Wheeler."	Though not as controversial or ethically compromised as Pruitt, Wheeler is opposed by a number of environmental groups who sharply criticize the president's aggressive efforts to undo Obama-era rules they say are designed to protect the environment and address climate change."		Andrew Wheeler, who&apos;s been leading Trump deregulatory charge, confirmed by Senate as EPA chief WASHINGTON – Andrew Wheeler is no longer the acting director of the EPA following the Senate's vote Thursday to make him the official head of the environmental regulatory agency. The Senate narrowly confirmed Wheeler 52-47, largely along party lines with Republicans in support and Democrats against him. While leading President Donald Trump's deregulatory agenda, Wheeler also has emphasized the agency's work to clean up Superfund sites and, for the first time, begin regulating a set of harmful chemicals found in drinking water systems that serve millions of Americans." Mr. Wheeler has proven his ability to advance pragmatic solutions to pressing environmental challenges," Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said on the Senate floor before the vote. Maine Sen. Susan Collins was the lone Republican to oppose Wheeler's confirmation. While calling Wheeler "certainly qualified for this position," Collins said some of the policies he has proposed as acting administrator "are not in the best interest of our environment and public health, particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation."A former EPA bureaucrat who also served as an influential Capitol Hill staffer and an energy lobbyist, Wheeler had been acting administrator of the agency since July when he replaced Scott Pruitt who left under an ethical cloud. When Trump nominated Wheeler for the official post in November, the president praised him for performing "a fantastic job." Though not as controversial or ethically compromised as Pruitt, Wheeler is opposed by a number of environmental groups who sharply criticize the president's aggressive efforts to undo Obama-era rules they say are designed to protect the environment and address climate change." It's a sad day for public health and the EPA, but mission accomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries," Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group, said in a statement following the vote. "They have longed for one of their own to call the shots at the agency, and now they finally have their man in Andrew Wheeler." At his confirmation hearing in January, Senate Democrats grilled Wheeler about his agency's proposals to roll back mercury emissions standards, weaken clean water regulations and scrap Obama-era climate change rules. Related: President Trump made the right pick for EPA: Sen. BarrassoShortly after taking over in July, Wheeler's EPA moved ahead with a plan to do away with the Obama-era Clean Power Plan and replace it with a proposed rule to set state guidelines for power-plant emissions of greenhouse gases that contribute to a warming planet. And his agency finalized revisions to a 2015 Obama-era rule regulating the disposal of coal ash that gives states and utilities what he called "much needed flexibility" to manage their waste. He also recommended freezing miles-per-gallon standards for cars and light trucks after the 2020 model year and preventing California and other states from setting tougher standards, saying it will improve safety and keep prices lower for consumers." We haven't slowed down and we haven't missed a step," Wheeler told senators in August. "As you can see, we're continuing the president's agenda post-haste."	False
100	motherjones	left_bias	2019-07-03	It's not just because activists want to vet candidate platforms and solutions, but because even getting candidates to talk more about an issue can raise the issue's profile.	A third way forward, she suggested, might include an effort to survey party members about which issues deserve a standalone debate."	Climate received 15 minutes of discussion over two nights, but the largely superficial discussion of the issue only seemed to strengthen the activists' case, as key policy proposals such as the Green New Deal and 100 percent renewable energy mandates were virtually ignored.	In April, climate activists launched a grassroots campaign demanding that one of the debates be dedicated to climate; they noted that presidential debate moderators had a long history of giving short shrift to the issue.	He tweeted in response to a Youth Climate Strike activist:The candidate tweeted a video of her reading a letter from an activist asking her to sign a petition for a climate change debate.		Nearly Every Democratic Presidential Candidate Is Now Backing a Debate on Climate Change Nineteen of the 25 Democratic presidential candidates have gone on record in favor of holding a debate devoted to climate change policy. In the past three days, four more candidates—including Kamala Harris—have told Mother Jones that they support a climate debate, raising the stakes for the Democratic National Committee, which has so far resisted allowing such an event to take place. In addition to the California senator, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, former Rep. John Delaney (Md.), and former Rep. Joe Sestak (Pa.) are now calling for a climate debate, joining big-name candidates including Joe Biden, Bernie Sanders, and Elizabeth Warren. Earlier this year, the DNC announced plans to hold a dozen primary debates in 2019 and 2020 and to prohibit candidates from appearing in any debates that had not been approved by the national party. In April, climate activists launched a grassroots campaign demanding that one of the debates be dedicated to climate; they noted that presidential debate moderators had a long history of giving short shrift to the issue. It's not just because activists want to vet candidate platforms and solutions, but because even getting candidates to talk more about an issue can raise the issue's profile. The activists quickly won support from Washington Gov. Jay Inslee, who has put global warming at the center of his campaign. But the DNC's line all along has been that it wouldn't hold any issue-specific debates. The controversy reemerged after the first round of Democratic debates last week. Climate received 15 minutes of discussion over two nights, but the largely superficial discussion of the issue only seemed to strengthen the activists' case, as key policy proposals such as the Green New Deal and 100 percent renewable energy mandates were virtually ignored. DNC officials spent the weekend reconsidering the matter. The result was a pair of resolutions that could come up for a vote at the party's August meeting. One proposal, backed by DNC executive committee member Christine Pelosi and others, would create a climate debate. A separate resolution, which Pelosi described as less ideal, would call for a forum in which candidates would appear individually to address climate policy. A third way forward, she suggested, might include an effort to survey party members about which issues deserve a standalone debate." t was somewhat ironic we [DNC officials] spent more time debating climate in our debate on Saturday than the candidates did Wednesday and Thursday," Pelosi said. If a climate debate does happen, much of the credit will belong to activist organizations like the US Youth Climate Strike, a teen-led group that has pressured candidates into endorsing the efforts. They plan to join with another youth-oriented group, Sunrise Movement, to keep up the pressure throughout the summer. Still, six candidates either haven't taken a position on a climate change debate or didn't respond to requests for comment in time for publication. They are Sen. Cory Booker, who called for more time to be devoted to the issue after the first debate; Montana Gov. Steve Bullock; former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper; Wayne Messam, the mayor of Miramar, Florida; California Rep. Eric Swalwell; and author Marianne Williamson. Here's what each of the candidates have said:Biden addressed a Greenpeace activist at a campaign rally in Ottumwa, Iowa, on June 11: "That's what we should be doing," he said. "I'm all in, man. Take a look at what I'm talking about—and by the way, the first climate change plan in the history of the Congress?" The campaign confirmed his position to Mother Jones in July. He tweeted in response to a Youth Climate Strike activist:The candidate tweeted a video of her reading a letter from an activist asking her to sign a petition for a climate change debate. "I'm up for that," she said. She also backed Inslee's pushback against the DNC:Harris' communications director told Mother Jones, "She's said she is happy to debate." Harris previously hadn't said publicly that she supports a climate change debate. Buttigieg's campaign did not clarify the candidate's position on a debate, but a staffer says he "plans to continue to address the issue of climate change at every debate and every event that he attends."O'Rourke's campaign did not respond to a request for comment in time for publication to confirm Youth Climate Strike's tweet:Booker supports more climate change discussion, but the campaign told Mother Jones that the decision is in the hands of the DNC." ohn supports having a climate debate," his communications director wrote in a July 1 email. "Climate has been a big part of our campaign and we mentioned our carbon fee and dividend plan during the debate last week." A DNC debate focused on climate change would show the world that America intends to lead again on this issue, and would be a smart place to discuss the key tenets of the Green New Deal—infrastructure, green jobs and clean air and water—and how to put a price on carbon," she told the Daily Beast. Bennet told Politico he thought a climate debate would be "great." Inslee was the first candidate to endorse a climate change debate, on April 17, launching his own petition aimed at the DNC. "I cannot rule out any other debate that would highlight both the necessity of defeating the climate crisis and calling for the candidates to step up to the plate," Inslee said in an interview with Mother Jones. "Sixty-second sound bites, which is all you'll be able to get in a party debate, is grossly inadequate to the task." The candidate wrote on Wednesday in an email to Mother Jones, "How could you not? It is the most destructive threat to America and mankind."	False
52	nationalreview	right_bias	2019-04-24	The most effective environmental efforts are often small, personal actions in which people have skin in the game.	Those who considered themselves "skeptical" of climate change "were most likely to report engaging in individual-level pro-environmental behaviors."	Clever hashtags are generated.	We should make it clear that personal environmental stewardship is not only more effective, it is a more moral way to live.	Every Earth Day, we are treated to theatrical images of marches featuring unhinged activists demanding action on a range of environmental issues.	As a conservative who has worked in environmental policy for two decades, I have been frustrated watching as ideological fellow travelers avoid environmental topics, even as they privately express their commitment to environmental stewardship. <sep> A study by researchers at the University of Michigan and Cornell University found that those who are "highly concerned" about climate change are "least likely to report individual-level actions" to reduce their environmental impact. <sep> Alarmist slogans are flaunted. <sep> Individual actions are mere "bollocks," useless gestures. <sep> This isn't just a theory. <sep> Only the sacrifices made by others will make a difference. <sep> In a video that was shared widely, including by celebrities such as James Corden, the British writer argues that the only way to help the environment is to change the "big, structural, political economic stuff." <sep> At the same time, he dismisses "pathetic, micro-consumerist bollocks which just isn't going to get us anywhere." <sep> Monbiot concludes that we need to "go straight to the heart of capitalism and overthrow it." <sep> Instead, the improvement is gradual and constant, as individuals and businesses find ways to squeeze a bit more out of their energy use. <sep> 	Environmental Hypocrites of the Left Why progressives refuse to live by their own Earth Day blusterGeorge Monbiot recently expressed a carefully calibrated environmental message that allows people on the environmental left to feel self-righteous without making any real sacrifice. In a video that was shared widely, including by celebrities such as James Corden, the British writer argues that the only way to help the environment is to change the "big, structural, political economic stuff." Monbiot concludes that we need to "go straight to the heart of capitalism and overthrow it." At the same time, he dismisses "pathetic, micro-consumerist bollocks which just isn't going to get us anywhere." This is absolution for those who want to feel green but can't be bothered with going to the effort and expense of actually living their own values. Publicly advocating the "do as I say, not as I do" approach reinforces the reality that conservatives tend to live out the environmental ethic that the Left only preaches. As a conservative who has worked in environmental policy for two decades, I have been frustrated watching as ideological fellow travelers avoid environmental topics, even as they privately express their commitment to environmental stewardship. As the Left becomes more detached from responsible and effective environmental solutions, conservatives should confidently fill the void. One reason conservatives do not engage is that environmentalism has become synonymous with horrible government policy. Every Earth Day, we are treated to theatrical images of marches featuring unhinged activists demanding action on a range of environmental issues. Clever hashtags are generated. Alarmist slogans are flaunted. Naked people glue themselves to park benches. And all who disagree with the demands for more government power are denigrated as "deniers." The other 364 days of the year, however, people on the left do little in their daily lives to justify all that environmental browbeating. A study by researchers at the University of Michigan and Cornell University found that those who are "highly concerned" about climate change are "least likely to report individual-level actions" to reduce their environmental impact. Those who considered themselves "skeptical" of climate change "were most likely to report engaging in individual-level pro-environmental behaviors." To be sure, not all conservatives are skeptical of climate change, but generally, we aren't nearly as alarmist about climate change or other environmental issues, even when we recognize the risk. That gap between the Left's loud talk and their unwillingness to make personal sacrifices is not an accident. It is now part of their dogma. Individual actions are mere "bollocks," useless gestures. Only the sacrifices made by others will make a difference. This dichotomy is evident in my home state of Washington, where politicians pride themselves on showing "leadership" in the effort to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. This year, our legislature enacted a law requiring the state to meet a 100 percent renewable-energy target by 2045. Environmental activists tweeted their support, saying they "demand action now" and worrying about the climate crisis. Ironically, though, many who demand action do little of it themselves. For only a few dollars a month, anyone who supports renewable energy can already buy renewable-energy credits (RECs), ensuring that there is enough renewable energy on the grid to cover their personal use. I asked one politician pushing for the 100 percent–renewable requirement if she buys RECs to cover her environmental impact. She admitted that she does not and has no plans to do so. This is consistent with the message of Monbiot and political leaders pushing the Green New Deal. Personal sacrifice is of little consequence, so why even try? Even as they call for an end to air travel, politicians who demand we impose lifestyle change have not curtailed their own carbon-producing travel, despite living in the era of HD video conferencing. The most effective environmental efforts are often small, personal actions in which people have skin in the game. Farmers find ways to conserve water because waste costs money. Aluminum cans are lighter today because it saves resources and they cost less to ship. Homeowners and businesses conserve energy because they pay the price for every kilowatt-hour. When they don't save, they change course, unlike politicians who fear public embarrassment and throw good money after bad. This isn't just a theory. The amount of energy per unit of GDP in the United States has fallen steadily for several decades. There are no sharp drops. Instead, the improvement is gradual and constant, as individuals and businesses find ways to squeeze a bit more out of their energy use. Politicians can lecture all they want, but these are truly the front lines of environmental stewardship. As Earth Day 2019 came and went, the pattern of environmentalists demanding action that they themselves won't take predictably repeated itself. The pattern of conservatives' avoiding talk of environmental stewardship even as they live it every day, however, is a pattern we should break. Effective environmental policy doesn't start with politicians and publicity stunts. Conservatives understand this. We should make it clear that personal environmental stewardship is not only more effective, it is a more moral way to live.	True
210	thenewyorktimes	left_center_bias	2019-09-05	"It's the best way to send a pricing signal."	In response to a question from Priya Subberwal, a New York University student, Mr. O'Rourke made clear that he prefers cap-and-trade over a straight tax on carbon."	reject any notion that we have to radically or fundamentally change how we eat or what we eat, I think we just have to be more responsible in the way that we do it, and the best way to do that is to allow the market to respond by setting a price on carbon," he said.	Asylum laws, Mr. O'Rourke said, should "include those who have been impacted by climate change.	I think the best possible path to do that is through a cap and trade system" he said.		Beto O'Rourke Revives Cap-and-Trade Idea for Carbon Emissions We haven't heard much about a national cap-and-trade system to curb carbon emissions since plans for one died in Congress about a decade ago. But tonight at the CNN climate forum, Beto O'Rourke, the former congressman from Texas, revived the idea as his preferred method of pricing carbon. Under such a system, the government issues a limited number of "allowances" or permits to companies and other entities that emit carbon dioxide, essentially creating a "cap" on emissions. California and states across the Eastern Seaboard have used the system for the past several years to reduce emissions from the power sector. In the $5 trillion climate plan that Mr. O'Rourke released in April, he indicated he would pursue some type of carbon pricing to reach his goal of net-zero emissions by 2050, but didn't specify an approach. In response to a question from Priya Subberwal, a New York University student, Mr. O'Rourke made clear that he prefers cap-and-trade over a straight tax on carbon." e should certainly price carbon. I think the best possible path to do that is through a cap and trade system" he said. "It's the best way to send a pricing signal." The revenue from a cap-and-trade program, he said, would be reinvested in helping communities move toward clean energy. Mr. O'Rourke promised to — surprise, surprise — re-enter the Paris agreement on "Day 1." He also pledged to "lead the world in going well beyond the Paris climate agreement," prevent new oil and gas leases on federal lands and bring back Obama-era climate regulations like fuel economy standards and restrictions on coal-fired power plants. The former Texas congressman was also one of the few candidates who explicitly tied Hurricane Dorian to newly proposed policies. He called for extending temporary protected status "to anyone who wants to seek shelter here" from the Bahamas, which has been overwhelmed by the hurricane. Asylum laws, Mr. O'Rourke said, should "include those who have been impacted by climate change. It's the right thing to do." Mr. O'Rourke was less clear about whether he believes people in his home state of Texas should be prevented from living in vulnerable flood areas. He said the government should help people move but avoided answering a question from the moderator, Don Lemon, about whether some areas were simply too risky for human habitation. One area where the Texan came down strong: No limits on the meat industry, despite calls from the United Nations for people to change their diet to avoid more damage to global land use."  reject any notion that we have to radically or fundamentally change how we eat or what we eat, I think we just have to be more responsible in the way that we do it, and the best way to do that is to allow the market to respond by setting a price on carbon," he said.	False
231	npr	left_center_bias	2019-09-20	But his idea of what that means is very different than the activists' vision.	There have been similar student events in the past year.	And a quarter of the poll respondents said they have participated in a school walk-out, a rally or contacted a government official on the issue.	At a Capitol Hill press event this week Nazar said she hopes the proposal defines her generation.	Strike organizers have a list of demands that includes "respect of indigenous land, sustainable agriculture, protecting biodiversity, environmental justice and a just transition away from fossil fuels and towards renewable energy," said 17-year-old Baltimore resident and organizer Nadia Nazar.		Global Youth Climate Strike Expected To Draw Large Crowds Spurred by what they see as a sluggish, ineffectual response to the existential threat of global warming, student activists from around the world plan to skip school today for what organizers call a Global Climate Strike. The focus for young activists is the United Nations Climate Action Summit taking place Monday in New York City. The strike's figurehead is 16-year-old Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, who traveled from Sweden to New York on an emission-free sailboat. A little over a year ago Thunberg began her school strike for the climate, by herself, outside the Swedish Parliament. Support for a school climate strike has since spread across the globe. In the last year Thunberg has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize by Norwegian lawmakers. She's also met with Pope Francis and lawmakers in several countries." We are currently on track for a world that could displace billions of people from their homes," Thunberg warned this week during a speech accepting Amnesty International's Ambassador of Conscience Award. She ended her acceptance speech with a call to action: "See you on the streets!"In New York City thousands of students may fill the streets with Thunberg because, as the school district announced on Twitter, it is giving strikers excused absences. In Oregon Portland Public Schools is doing the same. Strikes also are planned in rural areas where just a few dozen protesters are expected. Nicholas DuVernay, 17, organized a protest in his politically-conservative small town of La Grande, Ore." Since, probably, the beginning of my junior year in high school I've been interested in climate science and pretty passionate about environmental topics," says DuVernay, who plans to study climate science when he attends college next year.A Washington Post-Kaiser Family Foundation poll this week shows a majority of teenagers believe human-caused climate change will cause harm to them. And a quarter of the poll respondents said they have participated in a school walk-out, a rally or contacted a government official on the issue. There have been similar student events in the past year. But this time students are asking adults to join them. At the University of Nevada, Reno, Stallar Lufrano-Jardine, 36, is setting up an event on campus where she's an employee and student."I'm bothered by the lack of movement to make meaningful advances to solve the climate crisis," says Lufrano-Jardine. But it's clear younger people are leading this movement and they say most adults — especially policy-makers — are moving far too slowly. Strike organizers have a list of demands that includes "respect of indigenous land, sustainable agriculture, protecting biodiversity, environmental justice and a just transition away from fossil fuels and towards renewable energy," said 17-year-old Baltimore resident and organizer Nadia Nazar. Many of those demands are part of the Green New Deal, which was crafted by progressive Democratic lawmakers but so far hasn't gone anywhere in Congress. At a Capitol Hill press event this week Nazar said she hopes the proposal defines her generation. "I am not a part of Generation Z. I am a part of Gen GND — the generation of the Green New Deal," said Nazar as supporters cheered. Also on Capitol Hill this week, Thunberg and other activists testified before lawmakers. Louisiana Republican Rep. Garret Graves told them climate change has exacerbated the loss of his state's coastline."I agree that we need to take aggressive action. I agree that we need to ensure that we move forward in a sustainable, rational manner," said Graves. But his idea of what that means is very different than the activists' vision. Graves agrees with President Trump on the need to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement. Graves told the student organizers the pact allows China to continue emitting more carbon dioxide while the U.S. cuts emissions. "Paris and its related pledges would undermine U.S. competitiveness," his spokesman said. Graves got immediate push-back from the young activists, including 17-year-old Jamie Margolin from Seattle who asked how Graves will respond to questions from his children and grandchildren about whether he did enough to address climate change." Can you really look them in the eye and say, 'No, sorry, I couldn't do anything because that country over there didn't do anything, so if they're not going to do it then I'm not.' That is shameful and that is cowardly," Margolin said. Organizers predict this climate strike will be the largest yet. More than 2000 scientists around the world have pledged to join. Some companies also have signed on, including Patagonia and Seventh Generation.	False
112	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-09-05	He is the only candidate to put out an animal and wildlife welfare policy, which seeks to end euthanasia for household dogs and cats and strengthen protections for endangered species."	Questions posed to candidates on Wednesday varied, and not all were asked about public land and conservation.	But nearly all have policy proposals that drive home the need for the nation to be a better environmental steward.	The plan calls for "ensuring that public lands, waters, and oceans are protected" and "restoring and protecting threatened, endangered, and fragile ecosystems."	"I've connected the dots of actually preserving more of our lands both for the benefit of wildlife and for our benefit to combat climate change."		Public Land Gets Its Moment At The Climate Town Hall A federal report last year found that about a quarter of all greenhouse gas emissions in the United States come from fossil fuel extraction on federal land. As the Trump administration continues its push to expand such development, top candidates for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination agree that America's public land must be a tool in the fight against climate change, not a contributor to the problem. During CNN's marathon town hall on climate change Wednesday, candidates vowed to end oil, gas and coal leasing on federal land as part of a shared goal to decarbonizing the economy and prevent catastrophic warming. Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) and former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julián Castro said they would also work to expand federally protected acreage." e actually need to undo the damage that this administration has done and then expand the lands that we're protecting in our country," Castro said. "We can do that." Most of the 10 Democratic candidates who appeared on stage Wednesday have released climate plans that call for reversing Trump's sweeping land rollbacks, safeguarding new sites or fully funding the popular Land and Water Conservation Fund, which uses offshore fossil-fuel revenue to protect natural areas and water resources. Castro, Harris, Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.) and former Vice President Joe Biden have all committed to working toward protecting 30% of America's land and water by 2030." he next president must be ready to lead the climate response we need to see on our shared lands and waters," Huntley said. "If we are going to keep pace with what science demands, we must reduce greenhouse gas emissions on our public lands while also restoring protections for threatened forests, from the Southern Appalachians to Alaska's Tongass" National Forest. Ahead of Wednesday's forum, Harris released a $10 trillion climate plan that calls for "diversifying the marine and land ecosystems that we protect and targeting biodiversity hotspots and critical wildlife corridors," as well as using existing presidential authorities to set aside critical landscapes. Biden's plan promises to permanently protect areas like the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge ― a pristine Alaska wilderness that the Trump administration is working to open to oil drilling ― and to set up programs to reforest and expand renewable energy on federal lands. Castro's $10 trillion climate plan, also released this week, calls for designating new national monuments, parks and wildlife refuge and outlines a so-called "Green Opportunity Corps" that would put 15,000 young adults to work in areas like public land conservation. He is the only candidate to put out an animal and wildlife welfare policy, which seeks to end euthanasia for household dogs and cats and strengthen protections for endangered species." e need to connect the dots," Castro said Wednesday. "I've connected the dots of actually preserving more of our lands both for the benefit of wildlife and for our benefit to combat climate change." Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) was not asked Wednesday about how she would approach America's public lands and waters, despite being the only candidate to release a comprehensive plan specific to protecting them. Her policy vision, unveiled in April, includes overturning Trump's land rollbacks, a moratorium on oil and gas leases on federal land, and recruiting 10,000 youth and veterans for a "21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps." It's not enough to end our public lands' contribution to climate change," Warren wrote in an announcement at the time. "We have an enormous opportunity to make them a part of the climate solution, and for both economic and environmental reasons, we should take it." All 10 candidates that participated in the CNN climate forum have voiced support for the Green New Deal, the landmark resolution unveiled in February by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) and Sen. Ed Markey (D-Mass.) and that outlined lofty goals of reaching net-zero emissions by midcentury. Supporters of the Green New Deal have said public land is key to its success. The plan calls for "ensuring that public lands, waters, and oceans are protected" and "restoring and protecting threatened, endangered, and fragile ecosystems." Questions posed to candidates on Wednesday varied, and not all were asked about public land and conservation. But nearly all have policy proposals that drive home the need for the nation to be a better environmental steward. Former Rep. Beto O'Rourke (Texas) says he would go beyond previous presidents to "protect our most wild, beautiful, and biodiverse places for generations to come — including more of the Arctic and of our sensitive landscapes and seascapes than ever before."	False
771	Fusion	left_center_bias	2017-05-18	They&#8217;re much more dramatic here, and they&#8217;re going to get more dramatic where we live as well.&#8221;	And we need to take heed of that.	Dr. Matt Amesbury, also of the University of Exeter, said there were two main findings to take from their new study, scale and temperature sensitivity:Before now, studies have been from single sites but using a transect of sites, we've been able to show that this significant response to climate change is pervasive across the whole of the Antarctic Peninsula.	&#8220;What surprised us was just how rapid the changes have been and the fact that they are very unusual when compared with growth rates in the late 19th and early 20th century.&#8221;Charman said their evidence shows just how fast Antarctic land surface can change along with climactic changes.	Or so it has been for thousands of years.		Antarctica's plant life is rapidly expanding due to climate change A Green Island moss bank with icebergs. Credit: Matt AmesburyAntarctica is a cold, white continent at the bottom of the world. Or so it has been for thousands of years. New evidence points to a sharp increase in biological activity in recent decades across the Antarctic Peninsula, resulting in large swaths of newfound greenery. Published in the journal Current Biology, a new study found major increases in Antarctic moss growth over the past 50 years, which the team of researchers attributes to temperature rises in the region. &#8220;It's another clear sign that the biology of the planet is changing as a result of warming temperatures,&#8221; said Professor Dan Charman of the University of Exeter, who led the research project. &#8220;What surprised us was just how rapid the changes have been and the fact that they are very unusual when compared with growth rates in the late 19th and early 20th century.&#8221;Charman said their evidence shows just how fast Antarctic land surface can change along with climactic changes. The Antarctic Peninsula is among the most rapidly warming areas in the world, with temperatures having increased by almost three degrees Celsius over the last 50 years. In March, a research base near the northern tip of the Antarctic peninsula set a heat record of 17.5 degrees Celsius (63.5° Fahrenheit). Currently, plant life only exists on about 0.3% of Antarctica. Charman said that, while as the Arctic warms a variety of plant life and soil organisms can migrate north, in Antarctica there are no nearby land areas for species to colonize from. But while no new natural plant life is anticipated, existing plant life such as Antarctic hairgrass and Antarctic pearlwort could occupy new ice-free ground as glaciers retreat. Dr. Matt Amesbury, also of the University of Exeter, said there were two main findings to take from their new study, scale and temperature sensitivity:Before now, studies have been from single sites but using a transect of sites, we've been able to show that this significant response to climate change is pervasive across the whole of the Antarctic Peninsula. The second important point is our finding which suggests that moss growth has been highly sensitive to temperature change since the 1950s—under future warming scenarios, this means we are likely to see a greening of the Antarctic Peninsula, both in terms of further increases in growth rates and also expansion of mosses and other plant life.  A Green Island moss bank with icebergs. Credit: Matt AmesburyWhile weather records only began in the 1950s in Antarctica, moss cores can provide a much older picture of how climate change has influenced biology in this frigid part of the world. Going forward, the researchers, who received funding from the Natural Environment Research Council, plan to examine core records dating back thousands of years to see how climate change affected the ecosystem before human activity was part of the picture. In March, James McClintock, a marine biologist with the University of Alabama at Birmingham and author of Lost Antarctica: Adventures In A Disappearing Land, told NPR that in Antarctica it&#8217;s possible to really see the impacts of climate change with your own eyes.&#8220;You know, we&#8217;re seeing changes in whole ecologies, whole communities down here that probably wouldn&#8217;t be unusual over millennia,&#8221; he said. &#8220;But here, they&#8217;re happening over a few decades. I really believe this is sort of the bellwether, if you will, of climate change environments on our planet. And we need to take heed of that. We&#8217;re seeing changes at home. They&#8217;re much more dramatic here, and they&#8217;re going to get more dramatic where we live as well.&#8221;	False
616	National Review	right_bias	2017-09-12	Etc.	But saying that technology can never identify someone's sexual orientation strikes me as pretty anti-sciencey, unless we're now back to saying sexual orientation is a choice, which opens a whole new kettle of fish.	The results aren't perfect, they claim, but the computers apparently do better than humans at guessing which team you play for — or secretly want to play for but don't.	Anyway, what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning.	— not "believing" in science because recent hurricanes have been bad and climate change is causing it and blah blah blah.	A representative of GLAAD said something interesting: "Technology cannot identify someone's sexual orientation." <sep> People who want to ban golden rice or other GMOs; people who deny that a fetus is a whole human; people who insist fetal pain is a myth; people who get outraged by claims that, say, men can't get pregnant. <sep> They don't like it! <sep> Anyway, I'm not sure what I think about this technology or its ramifications, but I have no problem with the notion that science will be able to figure out these things (and we'll probably find out that some things are wired, some are a choice, and most are a mix of the two). <sep> The point is that opponents don't like this science because of the political and social consequences of it. <sep> As you can probably tell, I don't think much of all that. <sep> But look: I don't want to debate global warming because a) it's boring to me, b) you get screamed at by people who act like we have seconds to act before the world ends, and c) you — or at least I — also get screamed at by people who insist it's all a complete hoax. <sep> Apparently, researchers claim they can tell whether you're a homosexual or lesbian by using facial-recognition software. <sep> Over the last two weeks we've heard a lot of folderol and bambosh about Republicans, conservatives, Texans — etc. <sep> And, to be honest, I can understand why. <sep> 	Oh Scientia! Oh Mores! Over the last two weeks we've heard a lot of folderol and bambosh about Republicans, conservatives, Texans — etc. — not "believing" in science because recent hurricanes have been bad and climate change is causing it and blah blah blah. As you can probably tell, I don't think much of all that. We had a historic lull in hurricanes until the lull was over. Once the hurricanes started back up, so did the claim that climate change caused the hurricanes just as the scientists predicted — the same scientists who didn't predict the lull. Similarly, California had a historic drought that recently came to an end. Most of the climate models say that California should get wetter because of global warming. But that didn't stop President Obama and others from suggesting the dry spell was a symptom of climate change. Then, when California experienced huge amounts of precipitation, suddenly the models were prescient. But look: I don't want to debate global warming because a) it's boring to me, b) you get screamed at by people who act like we have seconds to act before the world ends, and c) you — or at least I — also get screamed at by people who insist it's all a complete hoax. For those interested, I'm basically in the Matt Ridley "lukewarmer"camp. Now, back to my point. This whole "don't believe in science" canard amounts to ackamarackus bordering on flimflam. Even if you were a 100 percent "denier" of climate change, that wouldn't necessarily mean you don't "believe" in science. Indeed, many of the hardcore rejectionists I know are really, really, really into the science of climate change (tell the guys at CEI they don't believe in science, I dare you). They just tend to think the prevailing "consensus" is a politically and journalistically contrived sham. But even if you are a "denier" without being a science dork, that doesn't necessarily mean you don't believe in "science." Rejecting one scientific finding — whether accurate or inaccurate — doesn't mean you must reject all "science," never mind suggest that you don't "believe" in it. To be honest, I don't know what people who say "you don't believe in science" think they mean when they say it. Climate "deniers" don't insist the world is flat (though I have to assume flat-earthers have unconventional views on atmospheric science). They don't refuse to take medical treatment or prescribed drugs. They have faith that the internal-combustion engine is based on sound science. Etc. Often, when I stupidly engage people who sincerely claim that Republicans or conservatives don't "believe in science," I like to point out that many liberals and leftists have problems with science, too. People who want to ban golden rice or other GMOs; people who deny that a fetus is a whole human; people who insist fetal pain is a myth; people who get outraged by claims that, say, men can't get pregnant. The list goes on and on. And yet, I don't argue that "Democrats don't believe in science." You know why? Because that would be stupid. Anyway, what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning. Apparently, researchers claim they can tell whether you're a homosexual or lesbian by using facial-recognition software. The results aren't perfect, they claim, but the computers apparently do better than humans at guessing which team you play for — or secretly want to play for but don't. Not surprisingly, gay-rights groups are angry! They don't like it! And, to be honest, I can understand why. But that's not the point. Both GLAAD and Human Rights Watch can't seem to decide whether the science is bad because it's fake and flawed or bad because it might work. A representative of GLAAD said something interesting: "Technology cannot identify someone's sexual orientation." Wait a second. Who says? Maybe this effort isn't up to snuff yet. But saying that technology can never identify someone's sexual orientation strikes me as pretty anti-sciencey, unless we're now back to saying sexual orientation is a choice, which opens a whole new kettle of fish. Anyway, I'm not sure what I think about this technology or its ramifications, but I have no problem with the notion that science will be able to figure out these things (and we'll probably find out that some things are wired, some are a choice, and most are a mix of the two). The point is that opponents don't like this science because of the political and social consequences of it. Maybe there's a parallel here with some "deniers" of climate change. But only those deniers get accused of not "believing" in science. READ MORE:How to Recognize 'Science Denial'Progressives Claim to Love Science, But What They Truly Love Is PowerClimate-Change Activists Are the Real Science Deniers— Jonah Goldberg is a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior editor at National Review.	False
824	Daily Mail	questionable_source	2017-06-01	'This wasn't about climate.	'It simply sounds like a transfer of wealth from the United States to other countries.	It was about U.S. money going to other countries.	'Any time that people were taking money out of your pocket, and you make them put it back in, they're not going to be happy.	'Ross said much of the predicted backlash from other countries that drive global warming concerns would be rooted in economics, not science.		Ross v. Tillerson: Paris climate split in Trump's cabinet U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross on Thursday openly dismissed concerns raised by Secretary of State Rex Tillerson about President Donald Trump's decision to exit the Paris Climate Treaty. Tillerson, a former ExxonMobil CEO, told senators during his January confirmation hearing that the U.S. should stay engaged in global warming mitigation instead of walking away.'It's important that the U.S. maintains its seat at the table about how to address the threat of climate change, which does require a global response,' Tillerson said then. And he has fretted privately to confidants that withdrawing from the Paris deal could both undercut America's credibility on other multilateral agreements and impair relationships with foreign allies. The U.S. commerce chief told Fox News, just minutes after Trump blasted the climate agreement as a wealth-transfer gimmick, that Tillerson is wrong.'I have a great deal of respect for Secretary Tillerson. I happen to disagree strongly with him on this particular issue.'He added that 'I just don't see the connection, frankly,' between the Paris pullout and America's trustworthiness in future negotiations.'I don't agree with that at all. There's no reason to make one agreement [connect] with another,' Ross said, using the Trans-Pacific Partnership as Exhibit A.'The sky didn't fall when we pulled out of TPP and the sky certainly won't fall now that we've pulled out of the Paris Accord,' he said. 'I think the president is right.'Ross said much of the predicted backlash from other countries that drive global warming concerns would be rooted in economics, not science.'Any time that people were taking money out of your pocket, and you make them put it back in, they're not going to be happy. And that's what's happening here,' he said.'This wasn't about climate. It was about U.S. money going to other countries.'Ross has firmly rooted himself in the train of thought that sees climate change agreements as thinly veiled pretexts for demanding global payouts from Washington and a free ride for its trade adversaries.'The president made clear we already are far ahead of other countries in terms of CO2 reduction,' Ross said, describing U.S. efforts to reduce carbon outputs.'And how can it be an effective deal when it allows China and India, two of the major polluters, to keep increasing their pollution for another decade or two?''That doesn't sound to me like a climate accord,' he said. 'It simply sounds like a transfer of wealth from the United States to other countries.'Tillerson, on the other hand, has aggressively pushed for greater recognition of America's obligation to lead the charge. Three weeks ago he signed an international document establishing the importance of the Paris Treaty in tackling climate change. The Fairbanks Declaration was adopted at the meeting by the members of the Arctic Council, whose members – like the U.S. – have territory above the Arctic Circle. The declaration says that the Arctic 'is warming at more than twice the rate of the global average, resulting in widespread social, environmental, and economic impacts in the Arctic and worldwide.'Last year, just one day before Trump was elected, Tillerson told a conference in Abu Dhabi that 'at ExxonMobil, we share the view that the risks of climate change are serious and warrant thoughtful action. Addressing these risks requires broad-based, practical solutions around the world.''Importantly, as a result of the Paris agreement, both developed and developing countries are now working together to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions,' he said then, 'while recognizing differing national responsibilities, capacities and circumstances.'Tillerson, who met with the president on Wednesday in a last-ditch effort to change his mind about pulling out of the Paris Accord, did not attend Thursday's Rose Garden announcement that America's participation was at an end.	False
136	politicususa	left_bias	2019-04-13	Asked whether he was concerned that the EPA may be out of synch with polls showing an overwhelming number of young people believe climate change should be a priority issue, Wheeler was dismissive."	es, climate is an issue and we are working to address it, but I think water is a bigger issue," he said.	do fear that because so many people only talked about climate change.	You're right, there could very well be a new generation coming up saying that's the only environmental issue – and it's not," he said.	Wheeler said he believes climate change is a problem, but that it had been overblown by former President Barack Obama's administration – at the expense of other bigger issues like water quality."		Trump's Environmental Protection Agency chief says climate is not a top priority (Reuters) – The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will unveil a proposal to speed state-level permitting decisions for energy infrastructure projects soon, the agency's chief told Reuters on Thursday, blasting states that have blocked coal terminals and gas pipelines on environmental grounds. President Donald Trump is seeking to boost domestic fossil fuels production over the objections of Democrats and environmentalists concerned about pollution and climate change. On Wednesday he issued a pair of executive orders targeting the power of states to delay energy projects." e started working on it in advance, so we hope to have something out soon," EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said in an interview. He was unable to provide a precise timeline. Based on Trump's orders, Wheeler's EPA has been tasked with clarifying a section of the U.S. Clean Water Act that has allowed states like New York and Washington to delay projects in recent years. New York has used the section to delay pipelines that would bring natural gas to New England, for example, and Washington state has stopped coal export terminals that would open the Asian market for struggling coal companies in Wyoming and other landlocked western states." hey are trying to make international environmental policy," Wheeler said of Washington state, whose governor, Democrat Jay Inslee, is running for president on a climate change-focused platform. "They're trying to dictate to the world how much coal is used." Wheeler said New York, which amid strong public pressure denied a clean water act permit for construction of a natural gas pipeline to New England, is forcing that region "to use Russian-produced natural gas." We are importing Russian natural gas which is not produced in an environmentally conscious manner. If the states that are blocking the pipelines were truly concerned about the environment, they would look to where the natural gas would be coming from… I think it's very short-sighted," he said. Wheeler said the EPA would not prevent a state from vetoing a project, but would clarify the parameters they should be able to consider, and the length of time they have to do so. He also said that California is playing politics in its fight with the EPA to preserve its more stringent vehicle emission standards as the national standard. Wheeler said he believes climate change is a problem, but that it had been overblown by former President Barack Obama's administration – at the expense of other bigger issues like water quality." es, climate is an issue and we are working to address it, but I think water is a bigger issue," he said. Wheeler dismissed the findings of a report released earlier this week by EPA scientists in the journal Nature Climate Change that detailed the scale and urgency of climate change. He said while he encouraged EPA scientists to carry out and publish research, he stressed the recent paper "did not reflect EPA policy." Environmental groups say the EPA's replacement of an Obama-era rule limiting carbon emissions from power plants would likely lead to increased emissions by allowing older, more polluting coal plants to operate longer. Asked whether the replacement – the Affordable Clean Energy rule, which gives states responsibility for regulating emissions – is stringent enough, Wheeler said it adheres to the parameters of federal law."  think what is effective regulation is one that follows the law and one that will be held up in court," he said. Several Democrats challenging Trump in the 2020 election have made climate change a top-tier issue, embracing aggressive policy platforms like the Green New Deal calling for an end of fossil fuels use. Asked whether he was concerned that the EPA may be out of synch with polls showing an overwhelming number of young people believe climate change should be a priority issue, Wheeler was dismissive."  do fear that because so many people only talked about climate change. You're right, there could very well be a new generation coming up saying that's the only environmental issue – and it's not," he said.	False
471	motherjones	left_bias	2018-11-01	Debbie Mucarsel-Powell is a climate champion, and the advocate South Floridians need as they watch sea-levels rise, see beaches destroyed by red tide, and live with the increasing threat of stronger, more powerful hurricanes."	The ad was released on Oct. 30 and immediately national environmental groups that generally align with Democrats called foul, underscoring their support of Curbelo's Democratic challenger, Debbie Mucarsel-Powell."	f Curbelo had been half the climate champion he claims he is, he wouldn't be desperately seeking an ad littered with lies such as this," said Sierra Club PAC Director Sarah Burton in a statement.	In one of South Florida's congressional districts, the party machine swept in to prop up a two-term incumbent by painting his opponent as a puppet of fossil fuel interests and "dirty coal money."	1 donor has been NextEra Energy, the Florida electric utility which is one of the largest purveyors of solar and wind energy projects in the country."		The GOP Is Attacking a Democrat for Being Weak on Climate Change. Wait, What?! In one of South Florida's congressional districts, the party machine swept in to prop up a two-term incumbent by painting his opponent as a puppet of fossil fuel interests and "dirty coal money." The only catch? The incumbent is Republican Rep. Carlos Curbelo and the party apparatus is the National Republican Congressional Committee, whose coffers this cycle contain nearly $7 million in donations from the oil and gas industry. The ad was released on Oct. 30 and immediately national environmental groups that generally align with Democrats called foul, underscoring their support of Curbelo's Democratic challenger, Debbie Mucarsel-Powell." f Curbelo had been half the climate champion he claims he is, he wouldn't be desperately seeking an ad littered with lies such as this," said Sierra Club PAC Director Sarah Burton in a statement. "But Curbelo isn't a climate champion, he's a consistent vote against clean energy, against our public lands, and in favor of fossil fuels. Debbie Mucarsel-Powell is a climate champion, and the advocate South Floridians need as they watch sea-levels rise, see beaches destroyed by red tide, and live with the increasing threat of stronger, more powerful hurricanes." Curbelo has received more than $192,000 from energy and natural resource firms, in comparison to the less than $5,000 that Mucarsel-Powell has received from the same sector of donors, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.A spokesperson for Mucarsel-Powell's campaign did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Curbelo is one of the founders of the Climate Solutions Caucus, a bipartisan group in Congress ostensibly committed to fighting global warming, but restricted in practice by the reliance of its 45 Republican members on support from oil and gas firms. While he broke ranks this summer to express his support for a carbon tax as a possible way to combat climate change, more than 30 of Curbelo's Republican colleagues on the caucus supported a symbolic measure that disavowed a carbon tax. Last December, he joined caucus members in a budget vote that would have opened up "1.5 million acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil and gas drilling," Mother Jones reported at the time. The latest forecast from polling aggregator FiveThirtyEight has Curbelo trailing by less than one percentage point. The super PAC Climate Hawks Vote, which supports candidates with a progressive energy agenda, has been running ads against Curbelo that point to his history of receiving donations from fossil fuel companies, including Chevron and Exxon Mobil. This cycle, his No. 1 donor has been NextEra Energy, the Florida electric utility which is one of the largest purveyors of solar and wind energy projects in the country." e sure appreciate the help from the NRCC in calling out politicians who take dirty fossil fuel money and then obstruct progress on climate change, and are looking forward to similar NRCC ads attacking every single one of their own candidates," said RL Miller, Climate Hawks Vote's political director, in a statement. "We only wish the ad had noted how much Carlos Curbelo has taken from Big Oil."	False
873	RT	questionable_source	2017-09-12	com.	However, there appears to be little consensus among scientific researchers.	US hurricanes: Causes, trends & what the future holds (VIDEO) Atlantic hurricane season has reached its peak and as Florida deals with devastation wrought by Irma, RT takes a look at where the phenomena come from and if they are really becoming more frequent?The 2017 hurricane season has already seen Texas rocked by Harvey and Florida battered by Irma, and there are concerns that Jose, which is currently lashing the Caribbean, could hit the US east coast.	'Tropical waves' of air interact with the warm equatorial water of the Atlantic as they head west, prompting columns of warm moist air to rise from the ocean and create an ideal environment to develop into a full-blown hurricane.	However, expects it to result in more intense tropical cyclones globally with substantially higher rainfall rates by the end of the 21st century.		US hurricanes: Causes, trends & what the future holds (VIDEO) Atlantic hurricane season has reached its peak and as Florida deals with devastation wrought by Irma, RT takes a look at where the phenomena come from and if they are really becoming more frequent?The 2017 hurricane season has already seen Texas rocked by Harvey and Florida battered by Irma, and there are concerns that Jose, which is currently lashing the Caribbean, could hit the US east coast. While September is the most active month for hurricanes worldwide, the North Atlantic hurricane season is set to continue until November 30, raising the question – where are these monster storms originating?READ MORE: 4 dead as Hurricane Irma rocks Florida, leaving 3.5mn without power (PHOTOS, VIDEOS)Most of the major hurricanes that have impacted the US originated in Cape Verde – a nation on a volcanic archipelago off the northwest coast of Africa – according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). The interaction between the hot dry air of the Sahara Desert and the cooler, more humid air from the Gulf of Guinea below creates high-altitude winds known as the African Easterly Jet. Blowing from east to west across Africa, the winds form clusters of thunderstorms once the waves of air have enough moisture, lift, and instability. The storms typically form every two to three days in a region near Cape Verde, but it is not until the period between summer and autumn that conditions become favorable for the development of tropical cyclones.'Tropical waves' of air interact with the warm equatorial water of the Atlantic as they head west, prompting columns of warm moist air to rise from the ocean and create an ideal environment to develop into a full-blown hurricane. However, if the Saharan Air Layer, commonly known as Saharan dust, is in the vicinity at the time it can weaken tropical cyclones over the Atlantic. This very dry air is most likely to have an impact in July and early August, Dr Gerry Bell, a hurricane climate specialist with NOAA told RT. com. This is when atmospheric conditions are only marginally conducive, if at all, for tropical storm formation. Hurricane Sandy and Hurricane Andrew began life as tropical waves off the coast of west Africa. Irma was first spotted as a tropical disturbance off the Cape Verde Islands in late August, before becoming a hurricane over the Atlantic as it moved west. Cape Verde hurricanes are known for being particularly large and intense, however not all hurricanes hitting the US originate here: Harvey evolved from a tropical wave to the east of the Lesser Antilles in the Caribbean Sea.A 2015 study examining the relationship between West African tropical disturbances and Atlantic hurricanes found that the larger an area covered by the disturbances was, the more likely it would develop into a hurricane only one to two weeks later. Is the US getting hit more frequently by hurricanes?Hurricane seasons have generally been longer since 1995, according to Bell, which he says is consistent with a high activity era. The season lengths since 1995 are comparable to those during the last active era of the 1950s-1960s.A study published in Nature last year, led by James Elsner, a climate scientist and geographer at Florida State University, found that, while hurricanes were becoming more powerful, they were also becoming less frequent. However, there appears to be little consensus among scientific researchers. An early draft of the government publication, the US Climate Science Special Report, published by the New York Times notes an "observed upward trend in North Atlantic hurricane activity since the 1970s." The NOAA Geophysical fluid dynamics laboratory, meanwhile, says it is too early to conclude that global warming has already had a "detectable impact on Atlantic hurricane or global tropical cyclone activity." However, expects it to result in more intense tropical cyclones globally with substantially higher rainfall rates by the end of the 21st century. It notes, however, that there is little evidence to suggest that climate change will lead to a large increase in numbers of tropical storms or overall hurricanes in the Atlantic.	False
525	npr	left_center_bias	2018-02-07	So to figure out if we can meet everyone's basic needs without destroying the planet, we need to know: For each bit of progress on the human front, how much harm is done on the environmental side?To find out, Daniel O'Neill — an economist at the University of Leeds in the United Kingdom — and several collaborators came up with 11 indicators that a country has met the needs of its citizens.	We certainly hope it's possible to do things better — to achieve a high level of human well-being at a much lower level of resource use."	After all, these findings are based on how we are doing things now, he says."	Then they looked at seven key ways in which humans damage the environment.	Specifically, O'Neill and his fellow researchers ran statistical tests to determine for each environmental measure how much damage it takes to produce a corresponding improvement on each of the social well-being indicators."	"So there's a turning point after which additional resource use contributes very little to social performance." <sep> "Then they analyzed the data on 150 countries to determine how they scored on both the environmental and the social fronts. <sep> And he adds that this study actually points to one way to do that. <sep> And what we find is that it follows a curve of diminishing returns — as you use more resources you get less social bang for your buck," says O'Neill. <sep> They range from boosting life expectancy above age 65 to ensuring that at least 95 percent of its adult population has graduated from high school, has access to sanitation and earns more than the extreme poverty line of $1.90 a day. <sep> 	If We Bring The Good Life To All, Will We Destroy The Planet? If We Bring The Good Life To All, Will We Destroy The Planet?Our blog often features stories about efforts to improve life for this planet's 7 billion inhabitants: How to make sure everyone has access to clean water and power, medical care to stay healthy, enough income to feed their kids, education for the children so they can fulfill their potential. But a new study in the Journal Nature Sustainability poses a question not often considered: If we were to succeed in providing all this, what would be the cost to the environment?In other words, can our planet actually sustain the good life for all?As we improve the human condition – building sanitation facilities and expanding farming to provide more food, for example – we necessarily damage the environment. We cut down trees, we put fertilizers in the soil that kill off aquatic life, we pump carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. So to figure out if we can meet everyone's basic needs without destroying the planet, we need to know: For each bit of progress on the human front, how much harm is done on the environmental side?To find out, Daniel O'Neill — an economist at the University of Leeds in the United Kingdom — and several collaborators came up with 11 indicators that a country has met the needs of its citizens. They range from boosting life expectancy above age 65 to ensuring that at least 95 percent of its adult population has graduated from high school, has access to sanitation and earns more than the extreme poverty line of $1.90 a day. Then they looked at seven key ways in which humans damage the environment. For each of these, scientists have calculated what degree of damage would put the planet at risk. In the case of carbon emissions, for instance, the threshold is the total amount that humanity can emit before we will cause the planet to warm enough to trigger catastrophic weather changes. From that, "we can calculate a carbon budget for the rest of the century," notes O'Neill. And then dividing that by the number of people on the planet, "we can say, 'okay this is the carbon budget per person.' "Then they analyzed the data on 150 countries to determine how they scored on both the environmental and the social fronts. The hope was to find at least a few examples of countries that were simultaneously delivering the good life to their citizens while staying within their per capita boundaries for environmental damage — in other words, using natural resources at a rate that would be sustainable even if every person on the planet matched it. Unfortunately, "we really didn't find that," says O'Neill. Instead, says O'Neill, "generally the countries that do well on the social indicators do so by consuming resources at a level that could not be extended to all people on the planet." These include Germany, the Netherlands and Austria. "And the countries that do well on the environmental indicators — in other words, that are consuming resources at a sustainable level — don't do well on the social indicators." Examples include Malawi, Yemen and the Philippines. There are also five countries that do damage above all seven of the environmental boundaries even as they fail to achieve all 11 social indicators. This includes the United States — which misses the mark when it comes to income equality and employment. China is arguably in even worse shape. It exceeds its per capita limits on five of the seven environmental thresholds yet only delivers on three of the social measures. Only one country comes even close to delivering the good life in a sustainable way: Vietnam succeeds on six of social indicators — including a life expectancy above 65 years and providing sufficient nutrition — while staying within its limit on every environmental threshold except carbon emissions. What does this all mean for humanity?"It's a worrying finding," says O'Neill. But he cautions against concluding that there's simply no way for everyone to enjoy a decent life without destroying the planet. After all, these findings are based on how we are doing things now, he says." We certainly hope it's possible to do things better — to achieve a high level of human well-being at a much lower level of resource use." And he adds that this study actually points to one way to do that. Specifically, O'Neill and his fellow researchers ran statistical tests to determine for each environmental measure how much damage it takes to produce a corresponding improvement on each of the social well-being indicators." And what we find is that it follows a curve of diminishing returns — as you use more resources you get less social bang for your buck," says O'Neill. "So there's a turning point after which additional resource use contributes very little to social performance." Wealthy industrialized nations such as the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada have now reached that point, says O'Neill. "As we increase our resource use we get almost no increase in human well-being from that." And this means the strategy of growing the economy — basically trying to create new wealth — to boost the well-being of its underprivileged citizens is ineffective. A much better approach, argues O'Neill, would be to focus on redistributing the wealth we already have more equitably. And if high-income countries were to adapt such a philosophy, says O'Neill, they could reduce their use of resources. And that, he says would "free up the ecological space" for poor nations – for whom using resources still does make a big impact in improving people's lives.	False
141	thehuffingtonpost	left_bias	2019-09-11	hile your proposed review of alarmist analyses and projections has been delayed, we believe your work in calling attention to the problem of unscientific climate alarmism has reduced the chances of the dramatic increases in energy prices that would arise from the banning of fossil fuels that some have proposed," Patrick Moore and Caleb Rossiter, two representatives of the CO2 Coalition, wrote in a joint statement.	Earlier this year, Trump tapped Happer to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting "adversarial scientific peer review" of climate science ― part of the administration's relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis.	He has long argued that the planet and humans benefit from increased carbon dioxide emissions.	The CO2 Coalition, a right-wing think tank that Happer co-founded and that argues Earth benefits from humans pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, confirmed his upcoming resignation in a Tuesday post to its website and praised him for his efforts."	William Happer, Lover Of Carbon Dioxide, To Exit Trump Administration William Happer, the White House's most veteran climate change denier who tried unsuccessfully to establish an ad hoc panel to challenge near-universally accepted climate science, is leaving the Trump administration, according to reports from E&E News and Bloomberg.A retired Princeton physics professor with no expertise in climatology, Happer has served as President Donald Trump's deputy assistant for emerging technologies on the National Security Council since September 2018.		William Happer, Lover Of Carbon Dioxide, To Exit Trump Administration William Happer, the White House's most veteran climate change denier who tried unsuccessfully to establish an ad hoc panel to challenge near-universally accepted climate science, is leaving the Trump administration, according to reports from E&E News and Bloomberg.A retired Princeton physics professor with no expertise in climatology, Happer has served as President Donald Trump's deputy assistant for emerging technologies on the National Security Council since September 2018. He has long argued that the planet and humans benefit from increased carbon dioxide emissions. He has called climate science a "cult," claimed Earth is in the midst of a "CO2 famine," and said the "demonization of carbon dioxide is just like the demonization of the poor Jews under Hitler." Earlier this year, Trump tapped Happer to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting "adversarial scientific peer review" of climate science ― part of the administration's relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis. The White House ultimately scrapped the plan, as E&E News reported in July. News of Happer's departure comes one day after the resignation of his boss, national security adviser John Bolton. It was Bolton who recruited Happer to the National Security Council and backed his effort to create an anti-science panel, according to The New York Times. The CO2 Coalition, a right-wing think tank that Happer co-founded and that argues Earth benefits from humans pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, confirmed his upcoming resignation in a Tuesday post to its website and praised him for his efforts." hile your proposed review of alarmist analyses and projections has been delayed, we believe your work in calling attention to the problem of unscientific climate alarmism has reduced the chances of the dramatic increases in energy prices that would arise from the banning of fossil fuels that some have proposed," Patrick Moore and Caleb Rossiter, two representatives of the CO2 Coalition, wrote in a joint statement. The CO2 Coalition is one of several think tanks that peddle misinformation about climate change and receive funding from the Mercer family, the billionaire megadonors who gave more than $15 million to Trump's 2016 campaign.	False
166	theguardian	left_center_bias	2019-09-05	On Wednesday, a list of demands was released by a coalition of youth-led groups whose lodestar is Greta Thunberg, the Swedish teenager and activist who sparked a global wave of walkouts by school students over the climate crisis.	""There are a lot of ways that we try to change our energy consumption and our pollution," she said.	Their answers – and reactions to them – foreshadowed the fight ahead with conservatives and industry regardless of who becomes the next president.	According to Yale University polling, the climate emergency is now the second most important voting issue for Democrats, behind healthcare.	Nothing."		Democratic 2020 hopefuls split over tackling climate crisis Democrats vying for president revealed a fundamental split over how aggressively the US should tackle climate change in a seven-hour town hall meeting on Wednesday. Bernie Sanders painted an apocalyptic future wreaked by the climate crisis and pledged to wage war on the fossil fuel industry. A high-energy Elizabeth Warren urged optimism for building a better America and the former vice-president Joe Biden, who has a pitched a more moderate proposal, said he would push other nations to recommit to stronger action. Sanders said without radical change the world will be uninhabitable. "The damage to the world will be irreparable," the Vermont senator said, adding that he is proposing "the largest, most comprehensive climate plan presented by any presidential candidate in the history of the United States". With many questions focused on what candidates would ask Americans to sacrifice, Elizabeth Warren pushed back on the framing. Asked if the government should tell people what kind of lightbulbs they can have, the Massachusetts senator quipped: "Oh come on, give me a break!""There are a lot of ways that we try to change our energy consumption and our pollution," she said. "Some of it is with lightbulbs, some of it is on straws, some of it – dang – is on cheeseburgers." But most of the responsibility lies with industry, not individuals, she said, adding "this is exactly what the fossil fuel industry wants us to talk about". Biden meanwhile pitched himself as the candidate who could lead negotiations with the diplomatic might of the US. He said his first step as president would be to call an international meeting to strengthen the Paris climate agreement." e should be organizing the world, demanding change, we need a diplomat-in-chief," Biden said. "Look what's happening now in the Amazon, what's going on? Nothing." Biden, who critics say has one of the less progressive climate plans, also got grilled on his plans to attend a fundraiser hosted by the founder of a natural gas company. He claimed the supporter is not a corporate executive. Where Biden would invest $1.7tn to fight climate change, Warren proposed $10tn and Sanders would put forward $16.3tn, setting them widely apart. The Democrats faced questions on whether their proposals would ban fracking for natural gas, prohibit exports of oil, gas and coal, change nutritional guidelines to limit meat consumption and transition to all electric vehicles. Their answers – and reactions to them – foreshadowed the fight ahead with conservatives and industry regardless of who becomes the next president. Donald Trump in a thread on Twitter charged that Democrat plans "will raise your energy bill and prices at the pump". The fossil fuels industry, through the oil trade group the American Petroleum Institute and the American Energy Alliance, said the plans would hurt poor Americans." onight, while American families worry about making ends meet, the Democrats running for president will be working hard to outbid each other on who can raise electricity and gasoline prices the highest, and the fastest," the alliance said in an emailed statement. The event was perhaps the longest stretch of primetime television ever dedicated to climate change, held after the Democratic National Committee refused to sanction an official climate debate between candidates and amid unprecedented pressure from young activists and the Democratic voting base to tackle the climate crisis. On Wednesday, a list of demands was released by a coalition of youth-led groups whose lodestar is Greta Thunberg, the Swedish teenager and activist who sparked a global wave of walkouts by school students over the climate crisis. Thunberg arrived in New York last week, after crossing the Atlantic in a solar-powered yacht for an upcoming UN climate summit. According to Yale University polling, the climate emergency is now the second most important voting issue for Democrats, behind healthcare. Among all voting Americans, nearly seven in 10 are worried about climate change, the highest ever recorded level of concern. There are strong bipartisan majorities in favour of setting pollution limits on industry, businesses, cars and trucks. Donald Trump, who is dismantling rules aimed at lowering planet-warming gases, attacked the Democratic candidates for proposing unrealistic, costly plans. "The Democrats' destructive "environmental" proposals will raise your energy bill and prices at the pump," the president wrote on Twitter. "Don't the Democrats care about fighting American poverty?"Trump's campaign quickly took the opportunity to post a clip of California senator Kamala Harris saying she would ban plastic straws alongside an ad for Trump-branded straws. But some young conservatives have raised concerns that Republican intransigence over the climate crisis will cost the party a generation of voters. Recent Newsy-Ipsos polling found that 59% of millennial and Generation Z Republicans support the Green New Deal." here are a lot of young people who are conservative and believe in climate change … They will not vote for a Republican if they're voting on this issue," said Benjamin Backer, founder of the American Conservation Coalition, which proposes action on the climate crisis. "And I think that's a problem with the lack of involvement from the Republican Party on this issue for the past 10 years."	False
716	CNN	left_bias	2017-09-14	"They've never seen a category like this come in because it came in really at a five," he said.	That same report, however, found that human activity "may have already caused changes" and that global warming "will likely cause tropical cyclones globally to be more intense on average" and "lead to an increase in the occurrence of very intense tropical cyclone(s)."	And on Thursday in Florida, before his comments aboard Air Force One about climate change, Trump said the people of Florida experienced something "the likes of which we can say really say nobody's ever seen before."	Trump campaigned on a platform that rejected much of the scientific community's findings on climate change, arguing that the Obama administration used climate science too often to restrict business growth.	"In response to this story, a White House aide pointed CNN to a recent NOAA report that found that it is "premature to conclude that human activities ... have already had a detectable impact on Atlantic hurricane or global tropical cyclone activity."		Trump dismisses climate change question by contradicting himself on hurricanes Trump, speaking to reporters aboard Air Force One on Thursday after touring damage from Hurricane Irma on Florida's west coast, said "we've had bigger storms than this" when asked about climate change." If you go back into the 1930s and the 1940s, and you take a look, we've had storms over the years that have been bigger than this," Trump said. "If you go back into the teens, you'll see storms that were as big or bigger. So we did have two horrific storms, epic storms, but if you go back into the '30s and '40s, and you go back into the teens, you'll see storms that were very similar and even bigger, OK?"In response to this story, a White House aide pointed CNN to a recent NOAA report that found that it is "premature to conclude that human activities ... have already had a detectable impact on Atlantic hurricane or global tropical cyclone activity." That same report, however, found that human activity "may have already caused changes" and that global warming "will likely cause tropical cyclones globally to be more intense on average" and "lead to an increase in the occurrence of very intense tropical cyclone(s)." Trump campaigned on a platform that rejected much of the scientific community's findings on climate change, arguing that the Obama administration used climate science too often to restrict business growth. Trump pulled out of the Paris Climate accords earlier this year and had previously had called climate change a "hoax" perpetrated by the Chinese. Trump's comments Thursday go against the hyperbolic language he used in the lead-up and aftermath of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma. "Hurricane Irma is of epic proportion, perhaps bigger than we have ever seen," Trump tweeted as Irma moved closer to Florida. Earlier this month he tweeted , "Hurricane looks like largest ever recorded in the Atlantic!" And on Thursday in Florida, before his comments aboard Air Force One about climate change, Trump said the people of Florida experienced something "the likes of which we can say really say nobody's ever seen before." "They've never seen a category like this come in because it came in really at a five," he said. Top Trump administration officials have repeatedly dodged questions about how climate change affected the damage done by hurricanes Harvey and Irma, saying the issue should be discussed at a later date. said last week it was "insensitive" to address global warming at this time. said last week it was "insensitive" to address global warming at this time. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt said last week it was "insensitive" to address global warming at this time. Mick Mulvaney, the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget, told CNN that climate change is a "longer discussion on another day" and a "big topic for the media." And both FEMA administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering when asked Tuesday whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of the storms. Trump's visit to tour hurricane damage on Thursday was his second trip in as many weeks. Trump toured the Houston area earlier this month after Hurricane Harvey brought massive flooding to the city. The storm and subsequent damage could end up being the costliest natural disaster in US history.	False
663	Daily Kos	left_bias	2017-04-03	Recently, a policy briefing from the world-leading Woods Hole Research Center has moved our understanding of this risk further through a clearly-written summary.	It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self-reinforcing cycle takes over.	Even as some scientists are still looking at what happened during the second half of the 20th century at a scale of change over decades others are beginning to address the significant acceleration of changes observed year by year.A link to a number of papers since 2015 showing dramatic climate change globally and in particular with extremes at the poles is still controversial to some."	Instead of climate changing over millennia we are now seeing it change in ways we can observe with our own eyes in the course of a season.	Consequently, an initial warming leads to more emission, leading to more warming and more emission.		The Arctic Sea Ice Reduction since 1978 is 4 x10^6 km2  half of which is since 2016 Its true that not all the sea ice is gone yet, but much of what remains is thin enough that the light passing through it is allowing algae blooms. In many places it is cracked and subject to being broken up by storms which due to the extremes of heat and cold confronting eachother in that region have extremes of wind and wave. The Jacobshaven Glacier delivering 10% of the ice melt from Greenlands ice caps to the sea no longer flows at a glacial pace but rather is retreating at 10 km/yr with the rate of retreat increasing at an increasing rate just as with the sea ice. Instead of climate changing over millennia we are now seeing it change in ways we can observe with our own eyes in the course of a season. Even as some scientists are still looking at what happened during the second half of the 20th century at a scale of change over decades others are beginning to address the significant acceleration of changes observed year by year.A link to a number of papers since 2015 showing dramatic climate change globally and in particular with extremes at the poles is still controversial to some." ramatic climate change is affecting both the Arctic and West Antarctica, yet the relative roles of local versus remote forcings in causing the changes are being debated. As global climate change continues to unfold, the two-way links between the tropics and the poles will play key determining factors in the climatic evolution of these sensitive regions. Thus, the time is ripe for a detailed look at how the tropics and the poles are coupled climatically. This special collection of the Journal of Climate on "Connecting the Tropics to Polar Regions" grew out of a mini-conference on the same topic that was held at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory in June 2014:  of the sea ice from over the ESAS allows storms to churn up the bottom sediments speeding the release of Methane. Methane releases speed up the melting of the permafrost. The permafrost stores huge amounts of methane and fresh water. We have known this since 2007."  policy briefing from the Woods Hole Research Center concludes that the IPCC doesn't adequately account for a methane warming feedbackWhile most attention has been given to carbon dioxide, it isn't the only greenhouse gas that scientists are worried about. Carbon dioxide is the most important human-emitted greenhouse gas, but methane has also increased in the atmosphere and it adds to our concerns…. As the Earth warms, and the Arctic warms especially fast, the permafrost melts and soil decomposition accelerates. Consequently, an initial warming leads to more emission, leading to more warming and more emission. It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self-reinforcing cycle takes over. Recently, a policy briefing from the world-leading Woods Hole Research Center has moved our understanding of this risk further through a clearly-written summary. The briefing cites two recent papers (here and here) that study the so-called permafrost carbon feedback. One of these studies makes use of projections from the most recent IPCC report to estimate that up to 205 gigatons equivalent of carbon dioxide could be released due to melting permafrost. This would cause up to 0.5°C (up to 0.9°F) extra warming." Arctic scientists warn that the release of the methane from the ESAS could happen with the same surprising acceleration we see with glaciers, sea ice and the polar ice caps melting and have a huge effect on the melt rate of the permafrost. "Just as bad, the permafrost melting would continue after 2100 which would lock us into even more warming. Under this scenario, meeting a 2°C limit would be harder than anticipated. The current IPCC targets do not adequately account for this feedback." This is essentially what arctic scientists have been warning about for a decade now but pointing out that the time scale is no longer centuries but just years, and this is another reason why the IPCC is moving up their next report date	False
93	shareblue	left_bias	2019-06-24	Published with permission of The American Independent.	The people, who are already suffering the impacts of sea level rise and unprecedented super storms, droughts, wildfires and heat waves."	The intent is to try to suppress a message — in this case, the increasing danger of human-caused climate change," said Michael Mann, a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University.	"We stand for spreading the word about the science we do, especially when it has a potential impact on millions and millions of people."	If you're taking a certain block of research and not communicating it, it defeats the purpose of why USDA does the research in the first place," Robert Bonnie, who worked at USDA during President Obama's administration, told Politico.		Trump officials keep getting caught hiding scientific reports they don't like The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is actively trying to muzzle and minimize scientific reports warning about the impacts of climate change, according to a Monday Politico report. The research Trump officials are trying to keep hidden could help farmers deal with the impact of climate change, such as how climate change affects the protein in wheat fed to cattle, or how changes in carbon dioxide levels alters the nutrients in rice. But rather than promote such peer-reviewed research by the USDA's Agricultural Research Service (ARS), the agency refuses to even issue press releases. In one instance about research on rice, the agency tried to dissuade a research partner, the University of Washington, from publicly discussing research." It was so unusual to have an agency basically say: 'Don't do a press release,'" Jeff Hodson, a communications director at the university, told Politico. "We stand for spreading the word about the science we do, especially when it has a potential impact on millions and millions of people." Research from Politico showed the USDA did not attempt any promotion or press releases for 45 ARS studies that mentioned climate change." The intent is to try to suppress a message — in this case, the increasing danger of human-caused climate change," said Michael Mann, a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University. "Who loses out? The people, who are already suffering the impacts of sea level rise and unprecedented super storms, droughts, wildfires and heat waves." Anti-science censorship has become a hallmark of the Trump administration. In August 2018, a survey of 63,000 government scientists warned that "censorship has been a problem in the Trump administration from the beginning." When a multi-agency report on climate change was released in November 2018, Trump's EPA administrator, Andrew Wheeler, complained that it had too much science in it. As recently as June, the Trump administration prevented a scientist from writing about climate change in testimony before Congress because it didn't "jibe" with the administration's view on the topic. Trump has been clear that he does not believe in the sound science behind climate change, writing it off as a hoax. Trump said he didn't believe the multi-agency scientific report about climate change noted above. Trump has also chosen fellow climate change skeptics for the highest levels of his administration, including Sonny Perdue, who leads the Department of Agriculture. In May, career government economists accused Perdue and his agency of retaliating against them for their reports showing that Trump's tax and farm subsidy policies are hurting the very rural voters he promised to help. Now farmers may also feel the brunt of the pain from not receiving information about how to cope with the changing environment. Perdue refused to comment on this latest report that his agency is suppressing scientific research." If you're taking a certain block of research and not communicating it, it defeats the purpose of why USDA does the research in the first place," Robert Bonnie, who worked at USDA during President Obama's administration, told Politico. Rather than embrace science, the Trump administration is hurting farmers in order to cling to an anti-science political position. Published with permission of The American Independent.	True
651	National Review	right_bias	2017-09-02	We routinely delay temporal pleasure, for example, in the hopes of attaining goals we hold in higher esteem, such as when we diet, exercise, or volunteer.	We all hold a hierarchy of values.	Each individual has values, good and bad, and they often remain in tension with one another.	It's an odd calculus at play in the author's mind, where the ultimate barometer of a funeral's efficacy is its environmental impact statement.	It is, after all, the measure of one's moral fitness to value some things (say, forgiveness) over others (vengeance).	For most people of good conscience, the value of a human being's life supersedes that of our dog or a backyard plant. <sep> Vox Ruins Funerals in a Quest for Environmental Justice What is the goal of a funeral? <sep> We make decisions every day accordingly. <sep> The piece and video discuss the environmental effects of American funerals, with their caskets, embalming fluid, and grave sites. <sep> For most normal people, funerary concerns are primarily about memorializing the deceased within the reasonable bounds of one's budget. <sep> What makes radical environmentalism, and its private-jet-flying propagators, so toxic a cultural beast is how high on its adherents' totem pole they are willing to place environmental concerns, often over some of the most elemental human needs and desires. <sep> What is most remarkable is the piece's bizarre stance on this debate — Peterson's primary concern appears to be getting rid of Grandma with as small of a carbon footprint as possible, rather than reverence, intergenerational remembrance, or even concern for the grieving. <sep> Or an opportunity to extol your passion for environmental justice?A recent Vox piece by Dean Peterson states with dogged solemnity that "modern burials are awful for the environment," and has an accompanying video whose combination of animation, the veneer of open-mindedness, and a vocally inflective narrator discreetly blurs the line between providing information and outright advocacy. <sep> That statement not only describes Judas's moral disorder but also reminds the audience that any concern, holy as it may be — poverty reduction, environmental protection, or any other earthly mission — that does not give a preferential deference to God, His creation, and acts of beauty such as that of Mary Magdalene are sure signs of misaligned priorities. <sep> In this Vox piece, it appears that some environmentalists have shifted focused to the other side of life's journey: death, and more specifically, how we bury our loved ones. <sep> To commit the soul of the decedent to his final reward? <sep> Maybe, he suggests, readers could consider "freezing [their bodies] with liquid nitrogen or having [their] ashes turned into a coral reef." <sep> The wish to have additional children, for example, is a cause for deep apprehension among environmentalists, who seem all at once indifferent and tone-deaf to how out of touch such a sentiment is. <sep> When Mary Magdalene anoints Christ with perfumes and oil as a pre-burial ritual on a night leading up to His execution, a livid Judas berates her gesture, protesting that the money used to buy the perfume could have been spent on "the poor." <sep> But what is particularly troubling about Vox's article is its larger point — that we as humans must give perpetual deference to some vague conception of "environmentalism" at most any cost. <sep> 	Vox Ruins Funerals in a Quest for Environmental Justice What is the goal of a funeral? Is it to pay tribute to a life lost? To commit the soul of the decedent to his final reward? Or an opportunity to extol your passion for environmental justice?A recent Vox piece by Dean Peterson states with dogged solemnity that "modern burials are awful for the environment," and has an accompanying video whose combination of animation, the veneer of open-mindedness, and a vocally inflective narrator discreetly blurs the line between providing information and outright advocacy. It's yet another instance of the environmentally conscious Left virtue-signaling about the negative effects of nearly everything human beings do: Not even the way we mourn our dead is safe from their parade of moral superiority. The piece and video discuss the environmental effects of American funerals, with their caskets, embalming fluid, and grave sites. The piece claims the average burial costs up to $12,000, though the National Funeral Directors Association's most recent report indicated average costs almost $3,500 less than that. Either way, that's a lot of money, of course, but the point is not to expiate upon the market forces driving prices in the funeral industry. What is most remarkable is the piece's bizarre stance on this debate — Peterson's primary concern appears to be getting rid of Grandma with as small of a carbon footprint as possible, rather than reverence, intergenerational remembrance, or even concern for the grieving. We all hold a hierarchy of values. For most people of good conscience, the value of a human being's life supersedes that of our dog or a backyard plant. We make decisions every day accordingly. We routinely delay temporal pleasure, for example, in the hopes of attaining goals we hold in higher esteem, such as when we diet, exercise, or volunteer. Each individual has values, good and bad, and they often remain in tension with one another. It is, after all, the measure of one's moral fitness to value some things (say, forgiveness) over others (vengeance). What makes radical environmentalism, and its private-jet-flying propagators, so toxic a cultural beast is how high on its adherents' totem pole they are willing to place environmental concerns, often over some of the most elemental human needs and desires. The wish to have additional children, for example, is a cause for deep apprehension among environmentalists, who seem all at once indifferent and tone-deaf to how out of touch such a sentiment is. In this Vox piece, it appears that some environmentalists have shifted focused to the other side of life's journey: death, and more specifically, how we bury our loved ones. For most normal people, funerary concerns are primarily about memorializing the deceased within the reasonable bounds of one's budget. Peterson's video notes that, in this strange race to the environmental bottom, some advocates believe burying Aunt Lisa in a casket is an alarming degradation of the environment — some might even want her tossed straight into the ground. Maybe, he suggests, readers could consider "freezing [their bodies] with liquid nitrogen or having [their] ashes turned into a coral reef." It's an odd calculus at play in the author's mind, where the ultimate barometer of a funeral's efficacy is its environmental impact statement. It's totally legitimate to criticize modern burials; on its face, the piece seems a cogent critique of excesses in the funeral industry. But what is particularly troubling about Vox's article is its larger point — that we as humans must give perpetual deference to some vague conception of "environmentalism" at most any cost. As the oft-repeated refrain goes, is environmentalist hysteria the inevitable fate of a society that ceases to believe in God? When organized religion fades and its would-be adherents are left to search for meaning, does the god of the environment end their search for a moral authority?Pardon the extended biblical analogy, but Vox's piece sounds more than a bit like Judas Iscariot's laments about the funeral rituals performed on Christ. When Mary Magdalene anoints Christ with perfumes and oil as a pre-burial ritual on a night leading up to His execution, a livid Judas berates her gesture, protesting that the money used to buy the perfume could have been spent on "the poor." John's Gospel provides the relevant addendum: "He did not say this because he cared about the poor but because he was a thief; as keeper of the money bag, he used to help himself to what was put into it." That statement not only describes Judas's moral disorder but also reminds the audience that any concern, holy as it may be — poverty reduction, environmental protection, or any other earthly mission — that does not give a preferential deference to God, His creation, and acts of beauty such as that of Mary Magdalene are sure signs of misaligned priorities. This piece from Vox forces us to ask the question: At what point does genuine concern for the environment turn into a power grab so vicious that one would rather soak Grandpa in liquid nitrogen than give him a proper burial?– John Hirschauer is a senior economics student at Fairfield University, a columnist for the Fairfield Mirror, and the host of The Outlet with John Hirschauer radio program.	True
322	thedailycaller	right_bias	2018-11-27	org.	"Putting a price on carbon can help change the behavior of polluters.	We hope our bipartisan bill will spur action on climate change before it's too late."	Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience.	The Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act is notable in that it's the first bipartisan carbon tax bill introduced in Congress in about 10 years.		House Republicans Back Another Carbon Tax Bill That's Bound To Fail Two Republican House members have signed their name onto bipartisan carbon tax legislation, a bill that stands virtually zero chance of passing during the lame duck session. GOP Reps. Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania and Francis Rooney of Florida are to introduce a carbon tax bill on Tuesday alongside Florida Democratic Rep. Ted Deutch. The Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act, if passed, would slap a $15-per-metric-ton carbon fee on fossil fuel industries. While the bill has little chance of passing, it is intended to spark a debate over carbon pricing as the Democratic Party prepares to take over the lower chamber of Congress." ore than a dozen federal agencies just warned us that if we don't take dramatic action, climate change will knock 10 percent off of our GDP by the end of this century," Deutch, the bill's Democratic co-sponsor, stated to Bloomberg Environment. "Putting a price on carbon can help change the behavior of polluters. We hope our bipartisan bill will spur action on climate change before it's too late." That $15-per-metric-ton fee would increase by $10 every year until reaching certain carbon emission targets. In order to shield citizens from higher fossil fuel prices, revenue from the tax would be given back out to households. Sponsors of the legislation believe it would slash greenhouse gas emissions by one-third over a 10-year period and a 90 percent cut by 2050, compared to 2015 emission levels. The Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act is notable in that it's the first bipartisan carbon tax bill introduced in Congress in about 10 years. However, given the GOP will control the Senate and White House for at least the next two years, it's passage appears quite bleak. The bill comes not long after an outgoing Republican lawmaker, Rep. Carlos Curbelo, introduced a carbon tax bill of his own this year. Cureblo's bill was more stringent, calling for a $24-per-ton fee on carbon. Much like the new bipartisan bill, Curbelo's was doomed to fail from the beginning — and he endured attack ads from the right for even introducing it. Long considered one of the most at-risk Republicans heading into Election Day, Curbelo went on to lose his Miami area House seat to a Democratic challenger. Curbelo was one among many moderate Republicans on the Climate Solutions Caucus who lost re-election. Altogether, 13 GOP members of the bipartisan climate group lost their elections, and numerous others chose to retire. (RELATED: A Growing Number Of Democrats Are Signing On To Ocasio-Cortez's Green New Deal)Republicans Fitzpatrick and Rooney, both members of the Climate Solutions Caucus, survived their re-elections — and both will continue to work with Democrats on various climate change bills in the next legislative session. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation. org.	False
589	The Daily Caller	right_bias	2017-05-04	"The permanent protections President Obama established for the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans were won with years of research, lobbying and organizing."	y now it's clear there is no legitimate public interest in further expanding risk to our oceans in pursuit of fossil fuels that we don't need," Lawrence said.	Environmentalists spent years lobbying and campaigning to get such policies in place.	LCV is one of the many environmental groups that endorsed Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential election."	CBD wants the court to force DHS to conduct a "programmatic environmental impact statement" on border enforcement operations.		Environmentalists Flood The Courts With Lawsuits To Stop Trump's Agenda At least eighteen environmental groups filed four lawsuits in one day against the Trump administration, including suits to keep in place Obama-era environmental policies. Environmentalists filed their suit Wednesday. They are living up to threats made after President Donald Trump took office — namely, to use the courts to preserve Obama administration policies. These include orders that stop offshore drilling and force the closure of coal plants. The League of Conservation Voters (LCV) led eight other groups in a legal challenge of Trump's recent executive order to reopen large swaths of Arctic seas to offshore drilling. LCV is one of the many environmental groups that endorsed Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential election." ever in LCV's history have we taken this step," Gene Karpinski, LCV's president, said in a statement. "The permanent protections President Obama established for the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans were won with years of research, lobbying and organizing." The suit argues Obama used his authority Section 12(a) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to put most Arctic waters off-limits to development. The act does not allow future presidents to undo placing waters off-limits, activists argue. The same day, Earthjustice and the Center for Biological Diversity (CBD) filed suits to challenge the administration. Earthjustice sued to stop the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) decision to indefinitely stay the implementation of wastewater discharge rules for coal plants. CBD filed suit against EPA for not finalizing deadlines for the cities of Washington, D.C. and Philadelphia to meet ozone standards. CBD also sued for Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt's emails and schedule. Earthjustice and CBD joined LCV's suit against Trump's EPA. So far, CBD has filed 15 lawsuits against the administration, something which the activist group publicly brags about. CBD famously sued the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to stop the construction of a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border. CBD wants the court to force DHS to conduct a "programmatic environmental impact statement" on border enforcement operations. Trump can expect more lawsuits as he continues to rollback Obama-era policies. Environmentalists spent years lobbying and campaigning to get such policies in place. The Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), for example, played a pivotal role in crafting the Clean Power Plan, which became Obama's signature global warming policy. But Trump ordered EPA to review the Clean Power Plan, asking the agency to see if it needed to be modified or rescinded. NRDC and other environmental groups were already locked in legal battles to keep the power plant rule from being overturned. NRDC has filed its fair share of lawsuits against Trump as well. They filed two lawsuits against the administration in February to keep the EPA from withdrawing a mercury rule and to oppose an executive order requiring agencies to repeal two regulations for every new one imposed. In March, NRDC and other environmentalists sued to block the Keystone XL oil pipeline from being built. They also tried to intervene in a lawsuit against a national ocean monument Obama created. The group filed at least two lawsuits in April challenging Trump's delaying energy efficiency standards for appliances and the administration's refusal to ban certain pesticides. NRDC attorneys are also representing LCV and others in the suit to keep Arctic waters off-limits to drilling." ere President Trump able to get away with this, the country would lose an important tool for protecting its vital interest in clean and vibrant oceans and coasts," Niel Lawrence, NRDC's Alaska director, told Bloomberg." y now it's clear there is no legitimate public interest in further expanding risk to our oceans in pursuit of fossil fuels that we don't need," Lawrence said. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].	False
412	dailykos	left_bias	2018-09-05	To Janet, this is a moral issue.	These were matters that we have historically agreed on, if for no other reason than the sake of our children and grandchildren's future.	And in Jordan's case, that would be Social Security, Medicare, education, health care and the like: Programs that benefit folks in his district.	The promise itself is significant for a couple of reasons: 1) it opposes any legislation relating to climate change that includes a net increase in government revenue; 2) it drives the final nail in the coffin of environmental bipartisanship, which had been the norm for decades.	(March 14, 2017, Gallup poll).	In contrast, Janet Garrett, by philosophy an environmentalist, will push for and support an agenda that will guarantee clean water, clean air, and the reduction of greenhouse gasses. <sep> 	DID JIM JORDAN REALLY SELL HIS SOUL TO THE KOCH BROTHERS? Before I address that question, I just stumbled upon an article in the August 1, Washington Post.  There, the Post updated its truth squad totals on Donald Trump: 4,229 false and misleading statements in 558 days.I then reflected upon Anderson Cooper's infamous April 17, 2018 CNN interview of Jim Jordan.  In that interview, a fumbling Jordan firmly insisted, to Cooper's amazement, that he never heard Trump lie.  This is the same Jim Jordan who less than three months later saw no evil and heard no evil in the Ohio State sex scandal that victimized some of Jordan's former wrestling students. I wondered to myself how Jordan's credibility would hold up, when cross-examined in court on this issue, now that these incredible statements are in the public domain. No wonder Trump loves Jordan!  Every word Trump speaks is the "Truth" in Jordan's world. Sure Jordan's a politician, and all politicians lie at some time or another (see Adams, ).  But it's quite another thing when you live your entire Congressional career as one big lie—a lie that causes long-term harm, not only to the folks living in your district but the country as a whole. Nowhere is that lie more obvious than in Jim Jordan's approach to global warming and general environmental issues.  And here's why Jordan will live on in villainy.   In July 2008, after being in Congress for a year and a half, Jim Jordan was the first member of Congress to sign the "No Climate Tax Pledge."  Yes, the first to sign; his initial salvo in an unrelenting fight he wages against our planet. The pledge or vow is the product of Americans for Prosperity, the conservative political advocacy group, funded by David and Charles Koch.  This is the outfit that went to war with the Obama Administration initiatives to combat global warming. The promise itself is significant for a couple of reasons: 1) it opposes any legislation relating to climate change that includes a net increase in government revenue; 2) it drives the final nail in the coffin of environmental bipartisanship, which had been the norm for decades. Let's take a closer look at this.   First, 71% of Americans now think that most scientists believe global warming is occurring; 68% of Americans believe global warming is caused by human activities. (March 14, 2017, Gallup poll).  Record percentages of Americans are now concerned about global warming.  I would predict the same percentages of belief would apply to Jordan's Ohio 4th Congressional District, plus or minus a few points. But Jordan wanted to be the first congressman in the USA to sell out the voters of a congressional district—never mind it had to be his own.  He couldn't wait to curry favor with the Koch boys and sign on the dotted line. What he's really saying is: "Regardless how bad it gets, how severe the droughts, how out of control the forest fires, how strong the tornadoes and hurricanes, how hot the summers, how cold the winters, how deep the floods, how devastating the blizzards, how much the ice caps melt, how high the oceans rise, I will not vote to tax, tariff, or otherwise increase revenues to cap the use of fossil fuels, unless that money is cut (or borrowed) from somewhere else in the budget."  And in Jordan's case, that would be Social Security, Medicare, education, health care and the like: Programs that benefit folks in his district. So from that July day in 2008, Jordan waged his own war on the environment: Voting to bar greenhouse gasses from Clean Air Act rules; voting against enforcing limits on carbon dioxide global warming pollution, against tax incentives for renewable electricity and energy conservation, against curtailing subsidies for oil and gas company exploration, but voting in favor of opening the Outer Continental Shelf to oil drilling. The League of Conservation Voters, National Environmental Scorecard, awarded Jordan a perfect 0% score for his 2017 record, and a lifetime score of 4% for his work. The saddest part of this story, however, is the depth we've descended into the abyss of partisanship on environmental issues.  These were matters that we have historically agreed on, if for no other reason than the sake of our children and grandchildren's future. For example, in 1969, Congress passed the landmark National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA).  This revolutionary piece of legislation unanimously passed the Senate; the vote in the House was 372 Years, with only 15 Nays.  Nixon signed it into law on New Year's Day, 1970. Now, thanks to guys like Jordan, NEPA would not even be brought to the floor for a vote, if it were introduced in today's Congress. In contrast, Janet Garrett, by philosophy an environmentalist, will push for and support an agenda that will guarantee clean water, clean air, and the reduction of greenhouse gasses.  Garrett knows the value of Environmental Protection; on those who knowingly violate our statutes, Janet will push for criminal enforcement.  Garrett will defend our National Park system and public lands, as she understands the need to preserve the earth for her children and grandchildren.  To Janet, this is a moral issue. Please support Janet Garrett in her efforts to replace Jordan in Congress.	True
75	drudgereport	right_bias	2019-01-03	More specifically, Ocasio-Cortez's plan calls for, within 10 years, a series of lofty overhauls of American life [emphasis added]:Between its calls for "upgrading" homes and overhauling travel, public infrastructure, and even the way Americans consume electricity, the plan leaves virtually no facet of everyday life untouched.	In addition to achieving its goal of "meeting 100% of national power demand through renewable sources," the document also repeatedly states the Green New Deal will advance non-environmental projects, such as, "social, economic, racial, regional and gender-based justice."	Its scope and mandate for legislative authority amounts to a radical grant of power to Washington over Americans' lives, homes, businesses, travel, banking, and more.	Editor's Note: This post has been updated with grammatical fixes.	Early on, under "Jurisdiction," the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision: "The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national, industrial, economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality."		Gender-based justice, Reparations, Universal income, Medicare for All... Incoming New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez brings with her a massive online following, influence she says she'll deploy only in support of candidates and politicians who support her plan for a "Green New Deal." The Green New Deal" is something Ocasio-Cortez invokes frequently in media appearances and rallies. So what's actually in it?Her office recently released the text of a proposed House rules change outlining the plan. The proposed rule change for the upcoming 116th Congress would require the creation of a "Select Committee for a Green Deal" that would be responsible for creating the plan by January 1, 2020, with corresponding draft legislation soon after. The text of the rule change lays out the committee's jurisdiction and required areas of action. Its scope and mandate for legislative authority amounts to a radical grant of power to Washington over Americans' lives, homes, businesses, travel, banking, and more. Early on, under "Jurisdiction," the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision: "The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national, industrial, economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality." In addition to achieving its goal of "meeting 100% of national power demand through renewable sources," the document also repeatedly states the Green New Deal will advance non-environmental projects, such as, "social, economic, racial, regional and gender-based justice." Ocasio-Cortez's plan further claims it will (virtually) eliminate poverty: "The Plan for a Green New Deal (and the draft legislation) shall recognize that a national, industrial, economic mobilization of this scope and scale is a historic opportunity to virtually eliminate poverty in the United States and to make prosperity, wealth and economic security available to everyone participating in the transformation." More specifically, Ocasio-Cortez's plan calls for, within 10 years, a series of lofty overhauls of American life [emphasis added]:Between its calls for "upgrading" homes and overhauling travel, public infrastructure, and even the way Americans consume electricity, the plan leaves virtually no facet of everyday life untouched. Think of how often you don't use electricity to imagine how much of your average day the plan wouldn't impact. The proposed committee would also have seemingly total oversight of American industry, with a mandate for pushing union membership. Under "Scope of the Plan," a section on labor states the committee's final plan shall: "Require strong enforcement of labor, workplace safety, and wage standards that recognize the rights of workers to organize and unionize free of coercion, intimidation, and harassment, and creation of meaningful, quality, career employment." Later in the document, Ocasio Cortez's plan imagines creating a national jobs force to help people participate in this "transition." The Green New Deal, it says, shall "provide all members of our society, across all regions and all communities, the opportunity, training and education to be a full and equal participant in the transition, including through a job guarantee program to assure a living wage job to every person who wants one." The plan also imagines creating governmental support for "transitioning" minority communities. The deal shall: "ensure a 'just transition' for all workers, low-income communities, communities of color, indigenous communities, rural and urban communities and the front-line communities most affected by climate change, pollution and other environmental harm including by ensuring that local implementation of the transition is led from the community level." More, Ocasio-Cortez sees this plan is being a vehicle through which social equality might finally realized through the use of reparations to right historical injustices. The final Green New Deal will "mitigate deeply entrenched racial, regional and gender-based inequalities in income and wealth (including, without limitation, ensuring that federal and other investment will be equitably distributed to historically impoverished, low income, deindustrialized or other marginalized communities in such a way that builds wealth and ownership at the community level)." And if that weren't enough to ensure that Democratic Socialism could be fully realized in America, the plan includes failsafe in the form of universal income and Medicare for All: The plan, it says, shall "include additional measures such as basic income programs, universal health care programs and any others as the select committee may deem appropriate to promote economic security, labor market flexibility and entrepreneurism." Ocasio-Cortez clarifies that this plan would not only need to be financed by taxpayers, but also the Federal Reserve and other institutions the government can create. The end of the document contains a Q&A, one of which deals with the plan's funding: "The Federal Reserve can extend credit to power these projects and investments, new public banks can be created (as in WWII) to extend credit and a combination of various taxation tools (including taxes on carbon and other emissions and progressive wealth taxes) can be employed." Ocasio-Cortez may not be in Congress yet, but she already has a plan to remake the way Americans drive, commute, live, work, and even use the financial system. Let there be little doubt how she aspires to wield power in Washington. Editor's Note: This post has been updated with grammatical fixes.	False
69	foxnews	right_bias	2019-04-29	It's a challenging issue."	"It's also an inclusive scoping because it includes people in the industry, that have jobs; communities that are impacted from an environmental justice prism but also from an economic justice prism.	get the idea of taking a lead on this issue and I think many companies agree with this," she said.	"Newsom understands the importance of an industry to the 40 million people who will be driving 26 million combustible engines tomorrow."	is intentions are very pragmatic," Catherine Reheis-Boyd, the president of the Western States Petroleum Association, told Fox News.	"The governor needs to make a plan to transition the state away from oil and gas toward renewables, but also transition workers into jobs in that sector." <sep> "But at what cost is this being done, especially when nobody else is doing anything." <sep> consider to remain optimistic given how he expressed interest in issues that [former California Gov. <sep> 	California Gov. Newsom facing new pressure from environmental groups to block drilling, fracking In the next few weeks, California Gov. Gavin Newsom is slated to announce his administration's energy policy strategy – and many environmental groups there are hoping it will include plans to end oil and gas drilling in the nation's most populous state and phase out all fossil fuel extraction. At the very least, green groups are hoping that Newsom – who campaigned last year on a promise to end controversial extraction methods like fracking and who has been a key figure in the fight to curtail climate change – will create buffer zones for any new oil and gas wells near schools, hospitals and residential neighborhoods and also monitor for dangerous emissions from plugged or abandoned wells."  consider to remain optimistic given how he expressed interest in issues that [former California Gov. Jerry] Brown did not address," Kathryn Phillips, the director of the Sierra Club California, told Fox News. "The governor needs to make a plan to transition the state away from oil and gas toward renewables, but also transition workers into jobs in that sector." But as Newsom's term in Sacramento approaches its fifth month, many of these groups are losing patience as the governor tries to balance a clean energy agenda with the demands of an industry that supports hundreds of thousands of jobs in a state with around 26 million vehicles on the road." 'm taking a very pragmatic look at it, in scoping this," Newsom told The Los Angeles Times recently. "It's also an inclusive scoping because it includes people in the industry, that have jobs; communities that are impacted from an environmental justice prism but also from an economic justice prism. It's a challenging issue." Newsom must now weigh the support he received from environmental groups while on the campaign trail – and his own assurances that he wants California to be powered 100 percent by renewable energy in the near future – with any moves that could negatively affect a billion-dollar industry in a state that has the world's fifth largest economy. Even with California's oil production being in decline for years, the state was the nation's fifth-largest domestic crude oil producer in 2017, according to figures compiled by the federal government." is intentions are very pragmatic," Catherine Reheis-Boyd, the president of the Western States Petroleum Association, told Fox News. "Newsom understands the importance of an industry to the 40 million people who will be driving 26 million combustible engines tomorrow." One practice that environmental groups are hoping Newsom will clamp down on more than his predecessor is hydraulic fracturing. Known more popularly as fracking, it is a method of oil and gas extraction in which large volumes of high-pressure water are shot into the ground. Fracking has come under intense scrutiny in recent years amid widespread concerns over both the public health and environmental risks it poses. While Brown approved restrictions on the practice back in 2013, he was lambasted by green groups for not banning fracking outright amid his argument that it could provide economic opportunities to some Californians. On the campaign trail last year Newsom was adamantly opposed to fracking, but has so far remained quiet about the practice – along with the possibility of banning offshore drilling in the state - when discussing his energy agenda. Newsom, however, told the "Los Angeles Times" that despite his commitment to renewable energies, it would be impossible to completely stop California's reliance on fossil fuels at the moment." ne cannot just turn off the switch. One cannot just immediately abut against a century of practice and policy," Newsom said. Still California is one of the nation's leaders in pushing forth a green energy agenda. Despite the criticism leveled against him for waffling on clamping down on the fossil fuel industry, Brown last year signed two pieces of legislation that effectively banned the construction of any new offshore oil and gas pipelines in the state's waters and thwarted a Trump administration plan to open nearly 1.7 billion acres of coastal waters to drilling. While California cannot directly block oil and gas drilling off its coast, the legislation that Brown signed aims to drive up the operating costs of these operations enough to make the effort unprofitable. The law does this by blocking state land managers from permitting the construction of new pipelines, piers, wharves or other infrastructure projects necessary to bring oil and gas from offshore drilling sites to land." alifornia has positioned itself as the center of the Trump resistance," Jessica Levinson, a clinical law professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, told Fox News. "It's bloody combat." California banned offshore drilling in state waters out to three miles back in 1994 and there haven't been any new platforms built in the last 30 years. But California is the nation's third-largest oil-producing state, behind Texas and North Dakota, and there are still 32 offshore oil platforms and artificial islands in federal and state waters off the coasts of Santa Barbara, Ventura, Los Angeles and Orange Counties. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPCalifornia may be leading the nation in curbing its reliance on fossil fuels and many environmental activists believe Newsom will take even bolder steps than his predecessor, energy industry insiders like Reheis-Boyd question what the point is when other states – and nations – are not doing their part as well."  get the idea of taking a lead on this issue and I think many companies agree with this," she said. "But at what cost is this being done, especially when nobody else is doing anything."	False
109	slate	left_bias	2019-08-21	Wildfires are common in the dry season, but are also deliberately set by farmers illegally deforesting land for cattle ranching."	It came after Inpe published data showing an 88 percent increase in deforestation there in June compared to the same month a year ago."	The sudden spike has prompted renewed concern that the destruction of the Amazon basin is the result of right-wing President Jair Bolsonaro's environmental policies that don't give much thought to the environment at all.	Now I am Nero, setting the Amazon aflame," he said.	"I used to be called Captain Chainsaw.		Brazil Reports Record Number of Fires in Amazon, but Its Government Doesn't Care The Amazon is burning at an alarming rate in Brazil with 72,843 fires detected so far this year by the country's space research center INPE. That amounts to an 83 percent increase over the same period in 2018 and the highest number since the agency started recording fires in 2013, meaning it is likely the highest number of fires to date. The sudden spike has prompted renewed concern that the destruction of the Amazon basin is the result of right-wing President Jair Bolsonaro's environmental policies that don't give much thought to the environment at all. The smoke from the fires has been so bad that when carried by the wind it caused an hourlong blackout in nearby São Paulo. The right-wing populist Bolsonaro, who has shown disdain for protecting the Amazon—home to 3 million species of plants and animals and 1 million or so people—came to power in January. The Bolsonaro regime has reversed previous governments' efforts to enforce environmental regulations and protect what is the largest rainforest in the world. "Over the past decade, previous governments had managed to reduce deforestation with action by federal agencies and a system of fines. But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes," the BBC reports. "Last month, the far-right president accused Inpe's director of lying about the scale of deforestation in the Amazon and trying to undermine the government. It came after Inpe published data showing an 88 percent increase in deforestation there in June compared to the same month a year ago." Conversely, NASA has reported overall fire activity in the Amazon basin has been slightly below average." ince Thursday, INPE said satellite images spotted 9,507 new forest fires in the country, mostly in the Amazon basin, home to the world's largest tropical forest seen as vital to countering global warming," Reuters reports. "Wildfires have increased in Mato Grosso and Para, two states where Brazil's agricultural frontier has pushed into the Amazon basin and spurred deforestation. Wildfires are common in the dry season, but are also deliberately set by farmers illegally deforesting land for cattle ranching." Bolsonaro dismissed alarm over the latest data, saying it was simply the season that farmers use open fires to clear farmland. "I used to be called Captain Chainsaw. Now I am Nero, setting the Amazon aflame," he said.	False
327	theblaze	right_bias	2018-09-21	org) is executive editor of The Heartland Institute and the co-founder of StoppingSocialism.	com.	However, the cause of this increase is debated and there is low confidence in attribution of changes in tropical cyclone activity to human influence."	As Roy Spencer, Ph.D., an acclaimed climate scientist who previously worked for NASA, recently stated, "The fact that there has been no long-term change in global hurricane activity, and even a 50 percent decrease in U.S. landfalling major hurricanes over the last 80 years, means no one is 'complicit' in these storms."	This is total nonsense.		Commentary: No, Donald Trump didn't cause or worsen Hurricane Florence — here's the proof Accompanying every hurricane are numerous stories in mainstream media outlets suggesting disaster could have been averted had American elected officials done more to stop global warming, which left-wing pundits continue to insist is almost entirely being caused by humans' carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. In article after article, pundits have claimed Republicans, especially President Donald Trump, are in some way responsible for Hurricane Florence. The Washington Post's editorial board — in an article titled "Yes, you can blame President Trump for Hurricane Florence" — even went so far as to say Trump was "complicit" for the storm. This is total nonsense. Not only are there countless good reasons to question the extent to which humans are contributing to global warming, there's no evidence indicating hurricanes have become significantly worse as a result of global warming. As Roy Spencer, Ph.D., an acclaimed climate scientist who previously worked for NASA, recently stated, "The fact that there has been no long-term change in global hurricane activity, and even a 50 percent decrease in U.S. landfalling major hurricanes over the last 80 years, means no one is 'complicit' in these storms." James Agresti, the president of the Just Facts think tank, rightly notes data appearing in the academic journal Geophysical Research Letters show "the global number and intensity of cyclones, hurricanes, and major hurricanes have been roughly level for the past four-to-five decades." Some have said Florence was made worse because of warmer ocean waters caused by climate change, but that's also false. Writing for Climate Change Dispatch, Michael Bastasch explains, "An analysis of Florence's path by Cato Institute meteorologist Ryan Maue showed ocean temperatures were 'abnormally cool' for most of the storm's trek through the Atlantic Ocean." Even the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, one of the most notorious defenders of the theory humans are headed for a climate catastrophe, admitted in 2012 there "is low confidence in long-term changes in tropical cyclone activity, after accounting for past changes in observing capabilities. However, over the satellite era, increases in the frequency and intensity of the strongest storms in the North Atlantic are robust. However, the cause of this increase is debated and there is low confidence in attribution of changes in tropical cyclone activity to human influence." And if all that weren't enough, it's absolutely absurd to say Trump is any way responsible for global warming because even if it is true humans are the primary cause of warming, carbon dioxide emissions actually dropped in Trump's first two years in office. In 2017, the United States emitted 41.8 million fewer tons of CO2 than in 2016, the largest reduction in the world. And from 2006 to 2016, the United States has averaged an annual reduction in its carbon dioxide emissions of 1.2 percent, according to an analysis by BP. The reason the Washington Post and others are consistently alleging, despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary, that Republicans are somehow to blame for natural disasters such as Hurricane Florence is either because they know absolutely nothing about the topic or because they believe it will help Democrats win elections. Either way, you should stick to what the best-available science says, not the fear-mongering of anti-conservative zealots. Justin Haskins (Jhaskins@heartland. org) is executive editor of The Heartland Institute and the co-founder of StoppingSocialism. com.	False
77	redstate	right_bias	2019-08-31	Okay.	She goes on to cite Germany as a shining example of who we should want to be like.	kay.	Okay?	They only end up making an ass out of 'u' and 'mption'".		Beware the Bern…Bernie Sanders Wants to Tax Your Meat Perpetual presidential candidate Bernie Sanders continues his "Gimme" tour with more and more promises to steal from the poor to give to the rich. This week, Bernie met Britta. Britta is concerned about climate change, in particular you nasty, vile carnivores out there. Britta used her one opportunity to quiz a presidential candidate to ask about…meat." kay. Okay. One second while I get my question. Okay, so as you probably know, animal agriculture is to blame for the majority of climate change and is the leading cause of deforestation, water and air pollution, and biodiversity loss. With that being known, what do you plan on doing to ensure that Americans limit their consumption of animal products?""Climate change is the leading cause of every bad thing on the earth" is one hell of a "You probably already know", Britta. Got any facts to back that up or are we just making assumptions? Because, as the great Samuel L. Jackson once uttered on film, "Never make assumptions. They only end up making an ass out of 'u' and 'mption'". But Britta doesn't stop there. She goes on to cite Germany as a shining example of who we should want to be like. You may be completely shocked to learn that Bernie Sanders responded by affirming that indeed, America needs to be more like the nation that brought us Hitler, the Holocaust and the VW Bug (only one of those things is good, by the way. In case you needed some clarity). Sanders did not say outright that a meat tax is an official policy of his platform, but he did give it the old politician shine, indicating that he would support such a notion and that also he's interested in "helping" farmers become more "aggressive" about combatting climate change. Yes, I'm sure farmers will be very excited for your "help" which will be tantamount to them giving up their land, their livestock and their livelihood, effectively causing a nationwide famine but hey…socialists got to socialist." hank you for the question and it's a good question. All I can say is, if we believe, as I do and you do, that climate change is real, we're going to have to tackle it in every single area, including agriculture. Okay? And in fact, one of the things we want to do with our farmers out there is help them become more aggressive and able to help us combat climate change rather than contribute to it. So we will certainly — you're right, we've got to look at agriculture, we've got to look at every cause of the crisis that we face." No word yet on if Sanders will be getting equally "aggressive" with his own multiple vacation properties.	True
