Progressive political elites have decided that in order to save the environment ordinary citizens must submit to radical lifestyle changes while those same elites fly around the world on private jets and enrich themselves from trade with China the worlds biggest polluter. The reality may even be worse than the headline. Not only have progressive environmentalists suggested that we all switch to a diet of bugs instead of meat especially steak because cow farts produce carbon dontcha know one Swedish scientist even suggested we devour the flesh of deceased humansto cut greenhouse emissions. This followed an article published byNewsweek in which two psychologists mused on the human taboo against cannibalism noting thatphilosophers have argued that burying the dead could be wasteful in the context of the fight against world hunger. Cannibalism for the climate thats how far theyve gone! Population control is another solution embraced by geniuses on the left. This dystopian idea attracted attention recently after Bernie Sanders brought it up at the last Democrat presidential debate saying people need to be need to curb population growth. But Sanders was merely popularizing an idea thats long been the dream of progressive environmentalists. A 2009 study estimated that every human child will produce on average 9441 metric tons of carbon dioxide. As such climate scientists were agitating for global population control long before Bernie made his comments. Looks like China despite its pollution does have something to offer the environmental movement the one child policy! Absent from Bernies argument in favor of curbing the population was an acknowledgment of what itll do to the economy and public services two things that the socialist senator allegedly cares about. An aging populace with fewer young people producing tax revenue means a crisis for public services and a shrinking economy. Of course progressives believe in opening the wests borders to admit millions of working age people from foreign countries so maybe thats their solution. Dont forget that we all have to stop driving if we want to save the climate which means we all have to pack ourselves into dense unaffordable cities instead of living in the suburbs. As left wing environmentalists remind us suburban sprawl also contributes significantly to deforestation. But are there enough affordable homes in the cities? Well that depends on how you define a home. Is a recycled sewer pipe a home? The OPod Tube House is the latest solution imagined for young people who cant afford a real house or apartment in the city. These homes are constructed from recycled industrial piping and are designed to be stacked on top of each other. If that isnt enough of a dystopian cyberpunk nightmare for you consider parasite pods small homes designed to be attached to larger structures like skyscrapers and bridges. Theyre parasitic and we must credit the architectural students who came up with the concept for their refreshingly honest choice of name because they cling to larger structures. Are you ready to be a parasite for the environment? Fried insects for lunch in your parasite pod single occupancy of course. Cycle everywhere unless you want to face crippling carbon taxes. Drink your iced latte with a paper straw dont have kids and when you die remember to donate your human flesh to a local restaurant. Meanwhile our ruling class continues to fly to climate change summits on private jets own multiple CO2 emitting homes and advocate for unrestricted trade with pollution world champ China. Do globalist progressive elites really not know why so many ordinary people hate them? Are you an insider at Google Facebook Twitter or any other tech company who wants to confidentially reveal wrongdoing or political bias at your company? Reach out to Allum Bokhari at his secure email addressallumbokhari Allum Bokhari is the senior technology correspondent at Breitbart News.	False	True	True	True	False
US President Donald Trump has promised to erect a wall along the US Mexico border to curb illegal immigration however scientists have warned that it could have devastating implications for local wildlife. The US Mexico border spans more than 2000 miles 3200 km and crosses some of the most biologically rich areas on the continent. Analysis of the animals that reside in the region reveals the controversial wall could threaten the movement of 1500 animal and plant species that reside in the area. The report which was co authored by 18 scientists from around the world found that62 of the species threatened nu the wall were already listed as 'critically endangered' 'endangered' or 'vulnerable' and up to 17 per cent risk extirpation from the US. More than 2500 experts from around the world have rallied around the new study championing its importance. One of its authors a leading professor from Stanford condemned the US border wall project branding it a 'crime against biodiversity'. The new paper co authored by Stanford biologist Rodolfo Dirzowarns some species face extinction if their movement is restricted by the border wall planned by President Trump. According to the study the border wall will harm wildlife populations by fragmenting degrading and eliminating existing habitat as well as by blocking migration. ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The bordersis an ecological theatre where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays. 'A multitude of factors climatic conditions topography geological history soil types converge to create an amazing mosaic of ecosystems.' The research looked at 346 different species native to the region around the US Mexico border and predicted how the wall's installation would affect each of them. The wall would bisect the habitats of a combined1506 native terrestrial and freshwater species 1077 animal and 429 plant the researchers said. The study concluded that animals including the Mexican Gray Wolf Sonoran pronghorn antelope jaguar and bighorn sheep would all be directly impacted. Writing in the study entitled 'Nature Divided Scientists United USMexico Border Wall Threatens Biodiversity and Binational Conservation' the authors claim 'A continuous border wall could disconnect more than 34 per cent of US non flying native terrestrialand freshwater animal species from the 50 per cent or more of their range that lies south of the border. 'If cut off by a border wall 17 per cent of the 346 species we analysedincluding jaguar Panthera onca and ocelot Leopardus pardalis would have residual U.S. populationscovering 20000 km2 or less. 'This would elevate their risk of extirpation within the US according to IUCN Red List criteria.' The paperpublished in the journal BioScience predicts that some species will face extinction if their movements are restricted by the wall Donald Trump pledged to build during the presidential campaign in 2016. ProfessorDirzo a professor of biology at Stanford said 'The borderis an ecological theater where evolution has engendered a plethora of plays. 'A multitude of factors climatic conditions topography geological history soil types converge to create an amazing mosaic of ecosystems.' His colleague Emeritus professor of Biology Paul Ehrlich also of Stanford said that a smaller development such as a shopping centre or a new road already has a direct impact on biodiversity. Building something as large as a 2000 mile 3200 km long fence would be tantamount to a 'crime against biodiversity'. Professor Dirzo added 'Cut off like this the bighorn sheep and other animals and plants will become zombie species populations that are demographically and genetically doomed.' To mitigate the effects of the proposed wall the authors make several urgent recommendations to the US Congress and Department of Homeland Security. Some of the recommendations include Following existing environmental laws taking action to mitigate ecological harm and forgoing physical barriers in particularly sensitive areas. The research paper also calls for the government to encourage scientific research in the borderlands to inform and assist environmental evaluation and mitigation efforts. The authors conclude that 'national security can and must be pursued with an approach that preserves our natural heritage.'	False	False	False	True	True
The Trump administration has held the biggest lease sale of oil and gas in US history. Environmentalists fear the auction will massively expand fossil fuel production and could lead to the next Deepwater disaster. President Donald Trump on Wednesday sold more than 77 million acres of federal waters in the Gulf of Mexico for offshore oil drilling an area twice the size of Florida. The lease sale forms part of the Trump administrations plans to increase domestic energy production by opening up new areas for oil drilling. Oil drilling in the Gulf of Mexico became increasingly controversial after the BP Deepwater Horizon disaster in 2010 which killed 11 workers and released millions of barrels of crude oil into the Gulf of Mexico. The catastrophe caused 17.2 billion worth of damage to natural resources according to a study in 2017 commissioned by the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Critics of the sale fear the expansion in offshore drilling could devastate marine life and lead to roll backs in environmental protections. Trump is selling off our oceans and selling out coastal communities and marine life to the oil industry said Kristen Monsell oceans program legal director at the Center for Biological Diversity. More drilling and less regulation will make the next Deepwater Horizon disaster only a matter of time. Whales dolphins and Gulf seafood are already marinating in oil spills and industry wastewater she added. The Interior Department said the sell off is necessary if America is to maintain energy independence. American energy production can be competitive said Vincent DeVito an energy policy advisor at the Interior Department. People need jobs the Gulf Coast states need revenue and Americans do not want to be dependent on foreign oil. he said. The Gulf of Mexico provides the US with around 1.5 million barrels of oil per day or roughly 17 percent of its national production total according to the Energy Information Administration. US crude oil output has grown by more than 20 percent since mid 2016. The oil industry welcomed the lease sale with Randall Luthi of the trade group National Oceanic Industry Association noting that the sale on Wednesday may draw more interest from industry than we have seen in recent years. Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers. The Project on Government Oversight warned in February that the uncompetitive lease system used by the government to auction sites allows energy companies to secure offshore leases for a pittance. It cautioned that the sale in the Gulf of Mexico means more publicly owned resources could be turned over to industry at bargain basement prices. The Center for American Progress a left leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement saying in a statement that offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources. Like this story? Share it with a friend!	True	False	False	False	True
Several high profile Democrats who back the so called Green New Deal are now apparently supporting a new report calling for a dramatic reduction in the worlds population to stave off a climate crisis. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and Sen. Ed Markey retweeted links to a report signed by more than 11000 scientists who argue that the population must be stabilizedand ideally gradually reducedwithin a framework that ensures social integrity. The report published Tuesday in the journal BioScience also calls for the wholesale dumping of fossil fuels and the emergence of green energy. They call for a bold and drastic change in economic growth to slash greenhouse gas emissions which research shows contributes to climate change. Ocasio Cortez a Democrat from New York backed the report on Twitter telling her followers in a Nov. 5 tweet that tweaks and shortcuts wont be enough to save the planet. The U.S. must engage in massive systemic change is in alignment with scientific consensus she said. The New York lawmaker retweeted a tweet from The Huffington Post that discusses the reports details. RELATED Ocasio Cortezs Chief Of Staff Admits What The Green New Deal Is Really About And Its Not The Climate Markey made similar comments. 11258 scientists are sounding the alarm we are in a climate emergency. And not just climate scientists. Biologists ecologists more the Massachusetts Democrat said in a Nov. 6 tweet. The crisis touches every aspect of our lives. So must the solution. Thats why we need a to fundamentally transform our society Markey added. He included in his tweet a link to a Washington Post report highlighting the nuts and bolts of the report. Markey and Ocasio Cortez introduced the GND in February which calls for a 10 year national mobilizations toward a series of goals designed to tackled global warming. The GND calls for the country to become carbon neutral within 10 years and seeks to aggressively reduce emissions. Other Democrats are also supporting the general thrust of Tuesdays report. Billionaire Tom Steyer also expressed his support. The world must wake up. We cant sweep climate change under the rug any longer Steyer said in a Wednesday tweet that also linked to WaPos report. World data consistently show that climate change is the least of most peoples concerns. Citizens generally are more concerned about getting a good education obtaining better healthcare and achieving political freedoms than they are tackling climate change according to a 2015 survey from the United Nations. Neither Ocasio Cortez nor Markey or Steyer responded to the Daily Caller News Foundations request for comment. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	True	False	True	False
WASHINGTON The Trump administration says it will bypass 37 environmental and other laws to expedite construction of a 15 mile long section of President Donald Trumpsplanned wall along the U.S. Mexico border seemingly removing any doubt about whether the the wall will harm the environment. The waiver announced Tuesday by the Department of Homeland Security applies to the construction of several wall prototypes access roads and 14 miles of replacement fencing near San Diego a Homeland Security official told HuffPost. DHS has been granted authority to exempt itself from all legal requirements it determines necessary to construct barriers and roads under the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996. Between 2005 and 2008 the department invoked that authority five times according to the agency. DHS noted in its Tuesday release that in fiscal year 2016 the U.S. Border Patrol apprehended more than 31000 illegal aliens and confiscated more than 9000 pounds of marijuana and more than 1300 pounds of cocaine in itsSan Diego Sector. It described the sector which includes some 60 miles of the U.S. Mexico border as an area of high illegal entry for which there is an immediate need to improve current infrastructure and construct additional border barriers and roads. Among the lengthy list of laws it will waive are the National Environmental Policy Act a 1969 law requiring federal agencies to complete environmental assessments of their projects the Endangered Species Act the Migratory Bird Conservation Act and the Clean Air Act.It is likely a sign of how the administration which has worked swiftly to roll back a slew of environmental regulations plans to fulfill Trumpspledgefor a great great wall on the nearly 2000 mile southern border. Despite sidestepping these laws DHS is committed to responsible environmental stewardship and will continue to assess potential impacts coordinate with relevant stakeholders and to the extent possible offset or mitigate potential impacts department spokesman Carlos Diaz said in an email to HuffPost. Trump wants to scare people into letting him ignore the law and endanger wildlife and people Brian Segee an attorney with the Center for Biological Diversity said in a statement. Trumps wall is a divisive symbol of fear and hatred and it does real harm to the landscape and communities. A study by the center in May found that 93 threatened endangered and candidate speciescould be negatively affected by the proposed border wallincluding jaguars ocelots Mexican spotted owls Mexican gray wolves and Quino checkerspot butterflies. Driven by an anti immigrant agenda the Trump administration is callously putting construction of an environmentally and culturally destructive border wall above water resources for communities on both sides of the border federally protected lands clean air and the lives of hundreds of endangered species all while turning a blind eye to the vital relationships of cross border communities and our longstanding values as a nation she said in a statement. So far very little funding has been secured for the walls estimatedcost of upwards of 70 billion a tab Trump insists Mexico will eventually pay for. DHS identified 20 million to help fund several prototypes. And last month the House of Representatives passed a spending bill that earmarks 1.6 billion to begin construction of the controversial project enough to pay for roughly 74 miles of wall.	False	False	False	True	False
After watching Schwarzeneggers video in fact it becomes immediately evident that the actor and former politician has never read the Paris climate accordand has no idea what it says. President Trump says hes pulling out of the Paris climate agreement. My message to you Mr. President is that as a public servant and especially as a president your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people Schwarzenegger begins. He then proceeds to chronicle the negative effects of pollution in the United States. Two hundred thousand people die every year in the U.S. from air pollution and half of our rivers and streams are too polluted for our health he says. We cant sit back and just do nothing while people are getting sick and dying especially when you know theres another way. Schwarzenegger goes on to suggest that without the Paris accord we will face a dirty energy future with asthma emphysema and cancer. The trouble is President Trump would heartily agree with Schwarzeneggers point while perhaps debating the exact statistics. According to President Trump clean air and water are exactly the issues that the EPA should be dealing with. But this has nothing to do with the Paris climate accord. Nowhere does the 25 page agreement deal with battling air pollution or cleaning up rivers and streams. It deals specifically with reducing greenhouse gas emissions particularly carbon dioxide CO2 with the stated objective of combatting global warming. Carbon dioxide is not a toxic gas. No one is dying from CO2 air pollution or from rivers and streams polluted with carbon dioxide. Some climate scientists in fact have argued that more carbon dioxide not less would be beneficial to the environment and to humanity. Growers regularly pump it into their greenhouses to achieve healthier heartier plants. Everything Schwarzenegger mentions in his short videofrom air pollution to clean water to asthma emphysema and canceris completely unrelated to the Presidents decision to withdraw from the Paris accord. So maybe the next time he decides to criticize the decision to get the U.S. out of the Paris accord he should read the document first. Meanwhile he should probably think about terminating that video.	True	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a 16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet warming greenhouse gases. Mr. Sanders unveiled his proposal one day after Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington who made climate change the central focus of his campaign announced he was dropping out of the 2020 race. Mr. Inslees absence could create an opening for another presidential aspirant to seize the mantle of climate candidate. Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality. He is bestowing that same name upon his new plan which calls for the United States to eliminate fossil fuel use by 2050. It declares climate change a national emergency envisions building new solar wind and geothermal power sources across the country and commits 200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	True	True	False	True	False
Concentrations of CO2 in the Earth's atmosphere surged to a record high in 2016 according to the World Meteorological Organization WMO. Last year's increase was 50 higher than the average of the past 10 years. Researchers say a combination of human activities and the El Nio weather phenomenon drove CO2 to a level not seen in 800000 years. This year's greenhouse gas bulletin produced by the WMO is based on measurements taken in 51 countries. Research stations dotted around the globe measure concentrations of warming gases including carbon dioxide methane and nitrous oxide. The figures published by the WMO are what's left in the atmosphere after significant amounts are absorbed by the Earth's sinks which include the oceans and the biosphere. 2016 saw average concentrations of CO2 hit 403.3 parts per million up from 400ppm in 2015. It is the largest increase we have ever seen in the 30 years we have had this network Dr Oksana Tarasova chief of WMO's global atmosphere watch programme told BBC News. The largest increase was in the previous El Nio in 1997 1998 and it was 2.7ppm and now it is 3.3ppm it is also 50 higher than the average of the last ten years. El Nio impacts the amount of carbon in the atmosphere by causing droughts that limit the uptake of CO2 by plants and trees. Emissions from human sources have slowed down in the last couple of years according to research but according to Dr Tarasova it is the cumulative total in the atmosphere that really matters as CO2 stays aloft and active for centuries. Over the past 70 years says the report the increase in CO2 in the atmosphere is nearly 100 times larger than it was at the end of the last ice age. Rapidly increasing atmospheric levels of CO2 and other gases have the potential according to the study to initiate unpredictable changes in the climate system... leading to severe ecological and economic disruptions. The study notes that since 1990 there has been a 40 increase in total radiative forcing that's the warming effect on our climate of all greenhouse gases. Geological wise it is like an injection of a huge amount of heat said Dr Tarasova. The changes will not take ten thousand years like they used to take before they will happen fast we don't have the knowledge of the system in this state that is a bit worrisome! According to experts the last time the Earth experienced a comparable concentration of CO2 was three to five million years ago in the mid Pliocene era. The climate then was 2 3C warmer and sea levels were 10 20m higher due to the melting of Greenland and the West Antarctic ice sheets. Other experts in the field of atmospheric research agreed that the WMO findings were a cause for concern. The 3ppm CO2 growth rate in 2015 and 2016 is extreme double the growth rate in the 1990 2000 decade Prof Euan Nisbet from Royal Holloway University of London told BBC News. It is urgent that we follow the Paris agreement and switch rapidly away from fossil fuels there are signs this is beginning to happen but so far the air is not yet recording the change. Another concern in the report is the continuing mysterious rise of methane levels in the atmosphere which were also larger than the average over the past ten years. Prof Nisbet says there is a fear of a vicious cycle where methane drives up temperatures which in turn releases more methane from natural sources. The rapid increase in methane since 2007 especially in 2014 2015 and 2016 is different. This was not expected in the Paris agreement. Methane growth is strongest in the tropics and sub tropics. The carbon isotopes in the methane show that growth is not being driven by fossil fuels. We do not understand why methane is rising. It may be a climate change feedback. It is very worrying. The implications of these new atmospheric measurements for the targets agreed under the Paris climate pact are quite negative say observers. The numbers don't lie. We are still emitting far too much and this needs to be reversed said Erik Solheim head of UN Environment. We have many of the solutions already to address this challenge. What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency. The report has been issued just a week ahead of the next instalment of UN climate talks in Bonn. Despite the declaration by President Trump that he intends to take the US out of the deal negotiators meeting in Germany will be aiming to advance and clarify the rulebook of the Paris agreement. Follow Matt on Twitter and on Facebook	True	False	False	True	True
California Gov. Jerry Brown ramped up his criticism of President Trump in an interview that aired Monday calling the president a saboteur in the fight to combat climate change and saying that somethings got to happen to this guy. Speaking to MSNBCs Andrea Mitchell at an environmentalsummitin San Francisco last week Brown tore into Trump for the presidents controversial tweets about the death toll in Puerto Rico from last years Hurricane Maria and urged voters to vote for Democrats in Novembers midterm elections in an effort to thwart Trumps agenda. We never had a president who was engaged in this kind of behavior Brown said. I mean hes not telling the truth he keeps changing his mind hes sabotaging the world order in many respects. Brown added Its unprecedented its dangerous and hopefully this election is going to send a strong message to the country the Democrats will winsomethings got to happen to this guy because if we dont get rid of him hes going to undermine America and even the world. Under Brown California has become one of the main opponents to the Trump administrations policies on everything from land use to immigration. But there is perhaps no area where California has been more combative against the White House agenda than the environment. California has positioned itself as the center of the Trump resistance Jessica Levinson a clinical law professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles told Fox News. Its bloody combat. Earlier this month Brown signed two pieces of legislation effectively banning the construction of any new offshore oil and gas pipelines in the states waters. The new laws are meant to thwart a Trump plan to open nearly 1.7 billion acres of coastal waters to drilling. Shortly before the climate conference began last week the governor also put his signature on legislation phasing out electricity in the state produced by fossil fuels by 2045. Its really extraordinary that the president can deny science like that Brown told MSNBC of Trumps questioning the veracity of climate change. Its bad and how we counteract it is with a climate summit with normal people respecting the truth and communicating that with other normal people and combating the President of the United States in what are lies distortions and quite frankly bizarre behavior. Browns criticism of Trump appears to have fallen on deaf ears at the White House as the administration announced on Tuesday that it was rolling back an Obama era rule meant to curb climate changing pollution and easing restrictions on energy companies that allow huge volumes of natural gas to escape after drilling it from U.S. lands. The move rescinds much of a 2016 rule adopted under President Barack Obama that forced energy companies to capture methane a key contributor to climate change. The replacement rule from the Interior Department does not have the same mandates for companies to reduce gas pollution. It comes a week after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency proposed weakening a similar rule for emissions from public and private lands. We're for clean air and water but at the same time we're for reasonable regulations Deputy Interior Secretary David Bernhardt told reporters. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	True	True	False	True	False
The Brando is one of the most luxurious eco resorts on the planet nestling on an atoll in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. It's the last place you might think to find pioneering technology. But you'd be surprised. The Brando resort on Tetiaroa a stunning atoll north of Tahiti is the epitome of luxurious exclusivity. Two room bungalows start from 3700 3200 a night. Formerly owned by Hollywood legend Marlon Brando who was keen that it should become an ecological haven it has now developed in to a hideaway for the rich and famous seeking conscience soothing holidays that do less harm to the planet. While some have dismissed the resort as an island for liberal elites Beyonc and Barack Obama were recent guests current owner Richard Bailey claims it is close to becoming carbon neutral and self sustainable. Electricity at the complex for example is generated from solar panels and coconut oil biofuel while waste water is used for sustainable irrigation. And the resort's cooling system uses a closed loop heat exchanger that takes very cold sea water from 900m 2950ft below the surface of the Pacific Ocean to cool the fresh water and air circulating round the complex. As the cooling system is powered largely by water pressure it uses very little energy. It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market but The Brando proves it is possible says Prof Graham Miller who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey. But of course visitors to The Brando have to fly to Tahiti first then take another 20 minute flight to paradise so their carbon footprint is still significant. The well heeled guests are unlikely to be bitten by mosquitoes either due to a sterilisation programme that has slashed Tetiaroa's mosquito population by at least 95. Led by Dr Herv Bossin of the Institut Louis Malard the programme breeds and releases non biting male mosquitoes infected with a Wolbachia virus that makes wild females who do bite sterile. Similar initiatives aimed at stamping out diseases such as Dengue and Zika are underway in countries such as Australia Colombia and China. But few countries have enjoyed the same level of success as Tetiaroa where mosquito levels are now so low the team is simply not catching any wild females anymore according to Frank Murphy executive director of the Tetiaroa Society the non governmental organisation NGO overseeing the sterilisation programme. The success of the project recently convinced the local government to fund a much larger breeding facility that could see the programme expand to other Pacific islands he says. Mosquitoes are not the only pests the Tetiaroa Society is working to eradicate. Rats are a big problem for the ecosystem of the atoll. Rats eat everything from baby turtles to sea birds and that is bad news for the coral reef too Mr Murphy says. Technology could help here too. The team wants to use 2.2m diameter drones to drop poisonous bait designed to attract rats but not other species. The operation only the second ever will be led by Island Conservation a US NGO that protects endangered species by removing invasive ones. Rats can cause the collapse of the entire terrestrial ecosystem says Island Conservation's Sally Esposito. In the past we have used helicopters to spread bait but we recently used drones for the first time on Seymour Norte in the Galapagos Islands. Tetiaroa is a more difficult environment so it's a great opportunity to test the drones further and should help us to create a haven for endangered native species such as the Polynesian Ground dove and the Tuamotu Sandpiper. Perhaps the most futuristic project on Tetiaroa is the Island Digital Ecosystem Avatar which uses light detection and ranging Lidar surveys to create a 3D model. Other data about animals plants topography and so on will be incorporated to create a model that could be used to predict how the island might react in different scenarios from flooding to the introduction of new species. The Lidar surveys give us a 3D representation of the physical contours of the island including the soils says Tetiaroa Society scientific director Neil Davies a senior fellow at the Berkeley Institute for Data Science. It's a bit like putting the island through a scanner. The team's eventual aim is to capture the atoll's whole ecosystem from molecule upwards so it can help local governments and communities evaluate future risks and make better decisions. Eco tourism is a growing trend that resorts are seeking to exploit around the world as people seek to make more responsible choices in the face of climate change. For example the Parkside Hotel Spa in Canada along with The Brando is one of just a handful of resorts to attain the US Green Building Council's Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design platinum certification. It has a 290 sq m 3000 sq ft vegetated roof and uses ponds and storm water storage tanks as a heat sink for its air conditioning system. And actor Leonardo DiCaprio a high profile environmental campaigner and The Brando regular is set to open his Blackadore Caye eco island resort off Belize in 2020. But with tourism contributing around 8 to global greenhouse gas emissions according to one recent paper published in the scientific journal Nature Climate Change all resorts will need to become carbon neutral not just those targeting the world's rich.	True	False	False	False	False
The top lawmakers on the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources were unified in their opposition to the Green New Deal and unreadiness to back taxes on carbon dioxide emissions. Theres no such thing as a new green deal West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin said during a Monday night panel at an international energy conference in Houston. Theres a resolution that has a dream but theres no bill theres no contents at all. Manchin a Democrat appeared alongside Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski a Republican at the event hosted by the consulting firm IHS Markit. Murkowski chairs the Senate energy committee and Manchin is the ranking Democrat. Manchin favors using fossil fuels like coal into the future but wants to fund technology to offset carbon dioxide emissions or sequester them underground. Murkowski said the Green New Deal was distracting from bipartisan efforts to fight global warming. We have to work within the systems we have and make sure we are not destroying our economy at the same time were moving to a lower carbon economy Murkowski said. As it stands now the Green New Deal is a non binding resolution with a series of broad goals for fighting global warming including net zero greenhouse gas emissions retrofitting every building expanding high speed rail universal health care and job guarantees. Many Democrats including 2020 presidential hopefuls back the Green New Deal which was introduced by Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and Democratic Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey in early February. RELATED John Kasich Praises The Green New Deal However Senate Democrats are trying to avoid having to vote on the Green New Deal resolution. Republicans on the other hand want to get Democrats on the record in support of a proposal they see as socialism. Manchin and Murkowski also said they are not ready to support a carbon tax despite support from some large oil and gas companies The Washington Examiners Joshua Siegel tweeted. Both lawmakers were responding to a question asked by Axios Amy Harder during the event. Most Republicans oppose a carbon tax though a handful have joined oil and gas majors and Democrats to push carbon tax proposals. The most recent high profile carbon tax effort was led by former Florida GOP Rep. Carlos Curbelo who introduced a bill to use emissions taxes to fund the federal Highway Trust Fund. However Curbelos policy went nowhere in the House and he lost his re election bid in 2018. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	True	False	True	True
That was the sober but urgent warning from congressional Democrats who on Tuesday penned a letter to EPA head Scott Pruitt urging him to preserve the Great Lakes area office amid rumors it could be shuttered as part of the Trump administrations efforts to slash the EPAs budget. EPA Region 5 is critical to protecting the air drinking water and health of residents in the six Great Lakes states the region serves and closing its headquarters in Chicago would make EPA less efficient and effective in its efforts to protect human health and the environment read the letter. And in a visit last week to East Chicago Indianawhich is grappling with a lead contamination crisis affecting both the water and soil Pruitt reportedly denied to a resident of the town that Region 5 was on the chopping block. About a month ago the union got three press calls in the same day asking if it had heard there was announcement Region 5 might be closed. The Office of Management and Budget also issued a memo in March asking the EPA to propose two regions for elimination. Then two weekends ago Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel issued a statement in support of keeping Region 5 open following reports in the Chicago Sun Timesand Politico that it was on the chopping block. There are about 1000 people in Region 5 and it has the most industrial regions of all of the EPA the employee who asked not to be named for fear of reprisal told HuffPost. My question is Why us? Were a big region in terms of geography. It takes four hours flying to get to the edge of the whole region. There are a lot of folks who simply wont do the move. And to be honest thats why its being suggested the employee said. The Trump administration suggested getting rid of 31 percent of the budget about 3000 employees which is about 20 percent of the EPA workforce. How are they going to get there? Its a lot easier to combine regions knowing that many of the staff in Region 5 would not want to move to Kansas City. Members of Congress who signed Tuesdays letter underscored the important role the region plays in ensuring a quick response to spills and contamination in the six states which are criss crossed with oil and gas pipelines spills often near the bulk of the nations freshwater supply and the Mississippi River waterways. Mikulka the EPA employees union president said shuttering Region 5 would be an effective way to hobble an agency whose mission is largely at odds with the Trump administrations deregulation orientedanti climate protection stance. If we have the most industry and we do the most enforcement and get the greatest results what better way to disembowel the EPA than going after Region 5?	True	True	False	True	False
With the Democrats ascension to power in the Commonwealth of Virginia following the November 2019 elections the state can expect the new legislature to try and push an aggressively progressive agenda. But you may be surprised just how progressive it is. The Democrats flipped control of the state senate from a 20 19 Republican majority to a 21 19 Democratic majority. They also regained control of the state House of Delegates turning a 51 49 Republican majority into a 55 45 Democratic majority. According to the Washington Post this is the first time in 25 years that Democrats have controlled every lever of state power. Lets take a look at how they intend to use it. Here are some of the most radical bills Democrats have introduced in the statehouse. RELATED Democrats Take Control Of Virginia State Legislature For The First Time In Decades HB 77 unanimously endorsed by the Democratic party in Virginia as part of their pre election platform calls for radical action from the Virginian government in order to address climate change. This bill introduced by Delegate Sam Rasoul states that by 2036 essentially all energy sold must come from clean energy sources. The bill reads in calendar year 2036 and every calendar year thereafter 100 percent of the electricity sold by a retail electric supplier is required to be generated from clean energy resources. The clean energy mandates apply to a public utility or other person that sells not less than 1000 megawatt hours of electric energy to retail customers or generates not less than 1000 megawatt hours of electric energy for use by the person. HB 77 also calls for job training for those workers displaced by the transition to renewable energy sources. Additionally the Democratic majority will allow Northam to join the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative RGGI. The RGGI is described as the first mandatory market based program in the United States to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Nine states are currently members. Permitting 16 year old children to obtain abortions without parental consent is also on the docket for Virginian Democrats. Senate Bill No. 21 states that A minor shall be deemed an adult for the purpose of consenting to Medical or health services related to abortion birth control pregnancy or family planning except for the purposes of sexual sterilization. Prior to this bill Virginia Code 16.1 241 required minors to have the permission of a guardian before having an abortion. If the minor wasnt able to obtain permission then they had to seek judicial authorization during which a judge would determine if the abortion was in the minors best interests and that they were mature enough to make that decision. Tanning is now apparently too dangerous to be done by anyone under the age of 18. This bill bans the use of tanning facility by any person under the age of 18 among other restrictions and does not carve out a parental consent exception. Section G of House Bill No. 38 says No individual under the age of 18 shall be allowed to use any tanning device at a tanning facility. The owner shall be responsible for ensuring that each customer using the tanning facility is of legal age to do so. HB 145 mandates that the Virginia Department of Education come up with school board model policies concerning the treatment of transgender students in public elementary and secondary schools that address common issues regarding transgender students in accordance with evidence based best practices. The bill goes on to describe several areas for this guidance. Some of the proposed specifics are harmless such as section 3 which says that the developed policies should prevent and respond to bullying and harassment. However section 8 calls for standards in accordance with evidence based best practices regarding Student participation in sex specific school activities events and athletics and use of school facilities which can be read as including male female transgender students being included in female specific restrooms facilities and sports. It also calls for guidance regarding the identification of students and compliance with applicable nondiscrimination laws which would include the Equality Act if passed by Congress a big legislative priority of congressionalDdemocrats. If HB 41 passes then board licensed primary care physicians will be required to discuss the potential negative effects of adverse childhood experiences on both mental and physical health during a patients first visit. Doctors will also have to screen patients for adverse childhood experiences that may impact a patients physical or mental health or the provision of health care services to the patient. Gun control is perhaps the most widely known and publicized issue of the 2019 election. Following a shooting in Virginia Beach in June Northam called a special session of the legislature in order to address gun violence. Republicans adjourned the session after 90 minutes. The governor has announced that gun control measures will be reintroduced in January. SB 16 states that it is unlawful for anyone to manufacture purchase possess or transport an assault firearm. A violation of this section is punishable as a Class 6 felony. An assault weapon is defined as The bill furthers prohibits handguns with a fixed magazine capacity in excess of 10 rounds and semi automatic shotguns that has a a fixed magazine capacity in excess of seven rounds among other commonly found features. If the bill passes as it currently stands even current owners of these firearms would face criminalization for what were previously legally owned firearms. RELATED Ocasio Cortezs Chief Of Staff Admits What The Green New Deal Is Really About And Its Not The Climate Virginians can expect a wave of progressive legislation to hit their state over the next several years as the Democrats enjoy having control of the state government. However some push back from state residents might be stronger than expected as the anticipated assault weapons ban has caused 94 counties to declare themselves second amendment sanctuaries. It remains to be seen if any other of the other proposed bills will spark as intense a reaction.	False	True	False	True	False
World leaders reacted with dismay Thursday to President Trump's announcement that he was pulling out of the Paris climate accord while three prominent European heads of state rejected his suggestion that the deal could be renegotiated. French President Emmanuel Macron German Chancellor Angela Merkel and and Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentilonisaid in a joint statement that they regretted the United States' decision to withdraw from the accord but affirmed our strongest commitment to implement its measures and encouraged all our partners to speed up their action to combat climate change. While Trump said the United States would be willing to rejoin the accord if it could obtain more favorable terms the three European leaders said the agreement cannot be renegotiated since it is a vital instrument for our planet societies and economics. Macron repeated that belief in an English language speech from the Elysee presidential palace unprecedented from a French president in an address at home. He said I do respect this decision but I do think it is an actual mistake both for the U.S. and for our planet. Wherever we live whoever we are we all share the same responsibility make our planet great again Macron added. The European Union's top climate change official Miguel Arias Canente said in a statement that Trump's decision to leave the Paris accord made it a sad day for the global community adding that the bloc deeply regrets the unilateral decision. Canete also predicted that the EU would seek new alliances from the world's largest economies to the most vulnerable island states as well as U.S. businesses and individuals supportive of the accord. U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres called the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris climate agreement a major disappointment and said it was crucial that the United States remains a leader on environmental issues according to his spokesman. Norway's largest pension fund with 53 billion euro 59.5 billion in assets under its management said it would continue to invest in renewable energy despite the American president's decision saying in a statement that Donald Trump is jumping off a train that has already left the station. Chief executive Odd Arild Grefstad cited the growth of renewable energy in U.S. states such as Texas New York and California as signs that the world has started the transition from fossil to a renewable economy. In Mexico former President Vicente Fox criticized Trump's move saying on Twitter He's declaring war on the planet itself. Fox who has clashed with Trump since last year's presidential campaign said the U.S. leader's decision condemns this generation and those to come and would leave a dark legacy just to satisfy your greediness. Bill Ford chairman of the Ford Motor Co. also weighed in saying We believe climate change is real and remain deeply committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in our vehicles and our facilities. Before Trump announced his decision Thursday afternoon Chinese Premier Li Keqiang told reporters during a visit to Berlin that fighting global warming was a global consensus and an international responsibility. Without mentioning the U.S. specifically Li said that China in recent years has stayed true to its commitment and pointed out that his was one of the first countries to ratify the 2015 Paris Agreement. While traveling abroad last week Trump was repeatedly pressed to stay in the deal by European leaders and Pope Francis. Withdrawing would leave the United States as one of just three countries outside the agreement. The other two are Syria and Nicaragua. Russia joined the chorus speaking out for the climate accord. Speaking to reporters on Thursday before Trump's decision was announced a spokesman for President Vladimir Putin said Russia thinks highly of the accords and sees no alternative to it. Spokesman Dmitry Peskov added that its implementation will not be as effective without the key signatories. Scientists say Earth is likely to reach more dangerous levels of warming sooner if the U.S. retreats from its pledge because America contributes so much to rising temperatures. Calculations suggest withdrawal could release up to 3 billion additional tons of carbon dioxide a year enough to melt ice sheets faster raise seas higher and trigger more extreme weather. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False	True	True	True	False
If we dont address the issues of climate change and inequality Ms. Lagarde said Tuesday before a major economic conference in Riyadh we will be moving to a dark future. Speaking directly to the question of global warming Lagarde said that we will be toasted roasted and grilled if humanity fails to make critical decisions regarding carbon emissions. If the human race wants a future that looks like utopia and not dystopia it needs to address such concerns Lagarde said predicting that in 50 years time oil will be a secondary commodity since green energy will have moved into prominence. Speaking before a major petroleum producing nation Lagarde hastened to add that these necessary measures are well understood in Saudi Arabia. Ms. Lagarde is no stranger to exaggerated predictions having proposed in 2016 that a Brexit victory would lead to 500000 job losses while suggesting that Brexit voters are narrow minded and calling for a united Europe. Ms. Lagarde said she had always admired Britains openness to other nationalities and cultures and added it was hard to believe attitudes had changed in such a short space of time. In June President Donald Trump announced the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accord arguing that it was a deeply flawed document that put American workers at an economic disadvantage. This announcement drew fierce criticism from world leaders and activists with former UN secretary general Ban Ki moon accusing Trump of standing on the wrong side of history. Recent reports however suggest that Trumps move has drawn numerous countries in his wake with a number of other nations quietly withdrawing from the Paris energy goals. According to Lawrence Solomon of Energy Probe a Toronto based environmental organization Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is one of the only signers of the Paris agreement who is actually abiding by the exacting demands of the accord. Most signatories Solomon notes in an essay in last Fridays Financial Post are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios. Moreover a devastating new study from the prestigious UK based Lancet journal has revealed that pollution related diseasesrather than climate changewere responsible for an estimated 9 million premature deaths in 2015 or some 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence combined. Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today the study found but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwide three times more deaths than from AIDS tuberculosis and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence. So while there has not yet been a single documented case of a person being killed by carbon dioxide related global warming real pollution of air water and land is killing an average of 25000 people every day across the globe. As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of carbon footprints and preaching renewable energy they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world. Whereas the Paris Climate Accord prates about greenhouse gas emissions it never once mentions the word pollution in the entire 27 pagedocument. Yet not only is pollution control not getting better in many parts of the world pollution is getting worse the Lancet study found.	True	True	False	True	False
WASHINGTON The Trump administration is moving forward with a significant rollback of an Obama era cleanwater regulation that has become a rallying cry for farmers and property rights activists opposed to federal overreach. The new proposal unveiled Tuesday morning by actingEPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler and other administration officials wouldease Washington's oversight of small bodies of water undoing a regulationPresident Donald Trump has called a massive power grab. The new rule wouldreplace an Obama administration regulation known as the Waters of the United States rulethat expandedfederal protections to smaller rivers and streams. Environmental advocates warn the proposed rule could remove pollution and development protections from mostU.S. waterways and pose far reaching effects on the safety of the nation's tap water for more than 100 million Americans. Even a child understands that small streams flow into large streams and lakes which provide drinking water for so many Americans said Craig Cox senior vice president for agriculture and natural resources for the EnvironmentalWorking Group. By removing safeguards and allowing industry to dump pollutants into these water sources Trumps EPA is ensuring more contamination challenges for utilities and dirtier water for their customers. But opponents of the Obama era WOTUS rule say it unduly prevents property owners from being able to fully use their land because the rule's overly broad definition regulates ditches that temporarily flood as federally protected waterways. The old rule put Washington in control of ponds puddles and prairie potholes saidWyoming GOP Sen.Tom Barrasso who chairs the Environment and Public Works Committee. The regulation was so confusing that property owners and businesses could not determine when permits were needed. The crux of the rollback is a change in how navigable waterways are defined under the Clean Water Act. The 2015 definition crafted under President Barack Obama would narrow considerably under Trump a move that Wheeler told reporters wouldmake it clearer and easier to understand ... that will result in significant cost savings protect the nation's navigable waterways and reduce barriers to important economic and environmental projects. Wheeler cited the Missouri Farm Bureauwhich launched a Ditch the Rule campaign opposing the 2015 proposal because it was concerned theObama era definition was so broad it could apply to almost every acre in the state. The Obama administration claimed it was in the interest of water quality but it was really about power power in the hands of the federal government over landowners Wheeler said. It's also confusing because the rule is enforced in only 22 statesthe District of Columbia and the U.S. territories. Under Trump's proposedrule federal protections would remain for major waterways riverstributaries wetlands adjacent to federally protected waterways certain lakes and ponds reservoirs and ditches used for navigation or affected by the tide. States would overseemost ditches terrain that fills with water during or in response to rainfall certain wetlands that have been used to grow crops stormwater control ponds and water and wastewater treatment systems. Additionally groundwater would not be federally protected an exclusion Wheeler said that was never supposed to be included. Wheeler disputed claims by environmental groups that the rule would remove federal oversightfrom at least 60 percent of the nation's waterways. But EPA officials also could not say what percentage would lose those protections. Delaware Sen. Tom Carper the top Democrat on the Environment and PublicWorks Committee said the rollback would send the country back to a time when environmental protections were few and far between. Back then the Cuyahoga River in Cleveland Ohio was so polluted that it actually caught on fire. Polluters were allowed to dump toxic waste into our waterways without consequence. Garbage littered our shores Carper said. It isnt just a coincidence that this is no longer the reality in our country. In one of his first acts as presidentTrump signed an executive order in February 2017 to undo the clean water rule and instructed the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to come up with a new approach. In a Roosevelt Room ceremony with farmers and lawmakers at the time Trump called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation. The debate over the water rule was part of a larger political flashpoint over environmental issues during the 2016 presidential campaign as Trump tried to appeal to rural Americans exasperated by federal regulations and the loss of property rights. While the broader debate centered on climate change and clean air rules the waters rule was nearly as polarizing because its broad application could affect farming construction and other activities near federally regulated waters. The issue has often come down to the definition of navigable waters under the Clean Water Act. The Clean Water Act of 1972 makes it illegal to pollute navigable waters. Over the decades disputes arose over the government's changing definition of navigable with opponents complainingthe definition was too broad. Two Supreme Court decisions in 2001 and 2006 came down on the side of landowners ruling that ponds at the bottom of a gravel pit and a marsh miles from any lake or river were not navigable and thus not subject to the act. Wheeler said he wants the rule to reflect the court rulings. More President Trump on dire economic forecast of climate change report 'I don't believe it' More Once Democrats take charge of the House addressing climate change will become top priority again	False	True	False	True	False
NEW YORK Reuters Only 200 miles separate Michael Tilden and Miranda Garcia in rain soaked Iowa. But they are worlds apart when it comes to their opinion of the weather. Garcia a 38 year old former journalist and Democrat from Des Moines thinks flooding has been getting worse in the state which just came out of its wettest 12 months on record. Tilden a 44 year old math teacher and Republican from Sioux City thinks otherwise Ive noticed essentially the same weather pattern every single year he said. Their different takes underscore a broader truth about the way Americans perceive extreme weather Democrats are far more likely to believe droughts floods wildfires hurricanes and tropical storms have become more frequent or intense where they live in the last decade according to a ReutersIpsos poll. The divergence shows how years of political squabbling over global warming including disputes over its existence have grown deep roots distorting the way Americans view the world around them. The divide will play into the 2020 election as Democratic hopefuls seek to sell aggressive proposals to reduce or even end fossil fuel consumption by drawing links between climate change and recent floods storms and wildfires. Nearly two thirds of Democrats believe severe thunderstorms and floods have become more frequent compared to 42 and 50 of Republicans respectively according to the poll. About half of Democrats meanwhile think droughts hurricanes and tropical storms are more common in their region versus less than a third of Republicans according to the poll. Similarly nearly seven in 10 Democrats said in the poll that severe weather events such as thunderstorms have become more intense compared to 4 of 10 Republicans. And nearly half of Republicans said there has been no change in the intensity of severe weather over the past decade versus a fifth of Democrats. The ReutersIpsos poll was conducted online in English between June 11 and 14 and gathered responses from 3281 people. It has a credibility interval a measure of precision of 2 percentage points up or down. U.S. government researchers have concluded that tropical cyclone activity rainfall and the frequency of intense single day storms have been on the rise according to data compiled by the Environmental Protection Agency. For example six of the 10 most active years for tropical cyclones in the Atlantic basin since 1950 have occurred since the mid 1990s and nine of the top 10 years for extreme one day precipitation events nationwide have occurred since 1990 according to the data. We do expect to see more intense storms said David Easterling a spokesman for the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administrations National Centers for Environmental Information. An overwhelming majority of scientists believe human consumption of fossil fuels is driving sweeping changes in the global climate by ramping up the concentration of heat trapping gases in the atmosphere. But it is impossible to draw a direct link between the changes in U.S. weather in the recent past to the larger trend of warming. President Donald Trump has cast doubt on the science of climate change saying he believes that research into its severity causes and effects is not yet settled. Two years ago he announced the United States would withdraw from a global pact to reduce carbon emissions the Paris Climate Agreement a deal Trump said could damage the U.S. economy. Still a majority of Republicans believe the United States should take aggressive action to combat global warming Reuters polling shows. Some Republican lawmakers have offered proposals for market based approaches to fend off climate change such as cap and trade systems that would force companies to cut carbon emissions or buy credits from those that do. Democrats are pushing more aggressive ideas. Nearly all of the partys presidential hopefuls who seek to unseat Trump in next years election have put forward proposals to end U.S. fossil fuels consumption within a few decades to make the country carbon neutral. Trump has slammed the idea saying it would kill millions of jobs and crush the dreams of the poorest Americans. Jennifer Marlon a research scientist at the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication said the divergence in the way American perceive the weather is being driven by factors including the news they consume and their social circles. Liberals are more likely to expose themselves to news outlets and people who believe climate change is an urgent threat that affects current weather patterns. For more conservative Americans the link between weather and climate change is not a typical conversation Marlon said. Last year the Yale program which carries out scientific research on public knowledge about climate change set out to map the partisan divide on how people perceive the effects of global warming across the United States. It found that 22 of Republicans reported personally experiencing climate change compared to 60 of Democrats. Scientists and researchers at the University of Michigan the University of Exeter and others came to a similar conclusion in a 2018 study which found that political bias and partisan news reporting can affect whether people indicate experiencing certain extreme weather events.	False	True	False	True	False
More and more Americans are coming to the conclusion that climate change is no myth at a time when the Trump administration is intent on ignoring reality and appeasing corporate interests. Some environmental leaders are responding by formulating a lowest common denominator strategy on climate like revenue neutral approaches hoping to magically create a middle ground by bowing to the altar of limited government. Fortunately an inclusive inter sectional and organic resistance is rising. This spring throughout a week of powerful demonstrations from Earth Day to May Day this resistance will blossom. OneAmerica is a multi issue immigrant rights organization that calls Washington state aka the Center of the Resistance home. Our communities are as harmed in the short term by ICE raids and unconstitutional travel bans as they are in the long term by gutted environmental regulations. To fight these destructive and unpopular attacks we need everyone but more importantly we need to follow the leadership of those most impacted by these regulatory rollbacks and programmatic cuts. People across the country overwhelmingly support action on climate and investment in renewable energy sources and believe immigrants make the United States a better place to live. In partnership with our allies among labor environmental faith and progressive business groups OneAmerica has worked with other organizations led by people of color to build a statewide movement for action on climate change that puts our communities and other front line communities first. Our communities to quote environmental justice advocate Majora Carter are the canaries in the coal mine We have already begun to experience climate disruption by virtue of where we live and work and we have always been on the front lines of pollution. Farm worker communities in Eastern Washington have worked through several severely hot summers under threat of wildfires and job loss due to drought. In the Puget Sound region some of the zip codes with the lowest life expectancy and highest pollution burdens are home to large and growing Latino and Asian Pacific American communities. Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people. We demand climate action that addresses historic injustices by pricing pollution and investing in solutions that improve economic and environmental conditions in front line communities. Our policy developed in partnership with mainstream environmental groups labor unions public health organizations and other stakeholders represents some of the best of what a unified national resistance could create Comprehensive equitable action against the biggest existential threat of our generation climate change. Thats why on Saturday April 22nd we will support an inclusive March for Science that embraces research based policies to address climate change. We will push our allies in the movement to use racial equity in their analyses by identifying disparate impacts of pollution and climate disruption and designing remedies that improve conditions for the most overburdened first. The Peoples Climate Movement takes to the streets on Saturday April 29th shedding light on the intertwined destinies of clean energy and employment in the United States and around the world. Finally on May Day OneAmerica will join partner organizations in championing immigrant and workers rights in Seattle and Yakima in solidarity with mobilizations across the country. We will march to demand inter sectional immigrant rights The right to freedom from hate crimes and harassment the right to living wages and safe working conditions the right to love whomever we choose the right to keep families together and the right to a clean and healthy environment. These are the inextricable demands of a resistance as powerful as it is diverse and as strong as it is resilient. Our hope rests not in convincing the willfully ignorant to change their ways but in the coming together of broad based peoples movements prepared to act to take back the initiative moving from resistance to power.	False	True	True	True	False
The following post written by The Rev. Robert A. Franek is a part of Politicus Policy Discussion in which writers draw connections between real lives and public policy. Amid the billowing smoke of the Trump Russia scandal both Donald Trump and the Republicans in Congress have found time to further their agenda of stripping the civil rights away from LGBT people taking healthcare away from women and assuring that scientific data be kept away from the Environmental Protection Agency. Each of these is an outrageous moral failure. Each is a step backward in our nations progress towards greater equality for all. And each is a threat to the life liberty and pursuit of happiness guaranteed to every person. While the present civil rights challenge for LGBT people persists and the funding for Planned Parenthood hangs in the balance the damage being done to our environment through toxic pollution of water systems and neglecting climate change realities even to the omission of scientific data will be much harder to restore with a new administration and Congressional priorities. The Trump Russia scandal smoke will eventually clear but the carbon dioxide billowing into the atmosphere is doing permanent damage. More the Keystone and Dakota Access Pipelines present real threats to land and waterways for millions of people. Rolling back environmental protection regulations and willful denying of scientific data to forestall efforts to fight climate change is a direct threat to each persons right to life liberty and pursuit of happiness. When the air we breathe and the water we drink are imminently threatened so that corporations can make more money life liberty and the pursuit of happiness are on the line. It would seem that these fundamental freedoms would be something especially Republicans would want to defend in the cause of patriotic duty. However as the Trump Russia scandal has proven time and again there is no limit as to the Republicans will to put party over the good of the country. The threats to life because of environmental deregulation and not addressing climate change are more than theoretical. All kinds of illnesses are on the rise and can be traced to chemicals in air and water. Storms are becoming more and more severe causing greater damage homes businesses and entire communities. And still repugnant Republicans put profits over people and stupid over scientific data. Without a habitable environment that is safe from toxic waste harmful chemicals and dangerous carbon dioxide emissions leading to an ever warming planet how can anyone be assured of life liberty and the pursuit of happiness? When the environment poses an unnecessary threat to ones health life is denied. One might expect the so called party of life to be concerned about this. But one would be grossly mistaken. If there was any care for life beyond birth they would not be stripping rights away from LGBT people or denying women access to healthcare much less actively working to endanger and destroy the necessities for life air and water. Amid the Trump Russia scandal and the smoke that continues to billow around the White House and Congressional Republicans we must not lose sight of the actual smoke and pollution destroying our planetary ecosystems that sustain life for us and all creation. Securing the long term future of civil rights for LGBT people womens access to heath care and the flourishing of our environment that we may all enjoy life liberty and the pursuit of happiness rests not only on getting to the bottom of the Trump Russia scandal and draining the swamp in his administration along with the scandal covering right denying profit seeking in Congress but also on preventing the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. Assuring that all have life liberty and the pursuit of happiness is a fundamental moral commitment that we share as citizens working together for the common good of all people and the whole creation.	True	False	False	True	False
Energy Secretary Rick Perry offered little explanation when protesters pressed him to explain his position on climate change at an energy conference on Tuesday. Instead he opted to tell oneyoung lady to sit down and said its OK to be skeptical about information. You are a climate denier said the first demonstrator as members of the audience booed and called for her to sit down and to get her out of here. In an attempt to defuse the tense moment Perry described the protester as one of the more interesting EIAemployees prompting laughter from the audience. Undeterred the protester kept shouting questions at Perry who then told her If youll sit down young lady Ill finish my remarks. Answer my question why will you not say that climate change is caused by carbon dioxide? she pressed. Perry was referring to remarks he made during an interview last week withCNBC Squawk Box. Perry told host Joe Kernan that carbon dioxide was not the primary control knob for climate change. While man is having an effect on climate he said most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in. His response is in stark contrast to overwhelming scientific consensus based on facts which says human activity specifically greenhouse gas emissions is the primary driver of global warming. The American Meteorological Society skewered Perry for his comments saying in a letter last week that he lacked a fundamental understanding of the science behind climate change. During his EIA conference speech on Tuesday Perry was interrupted a second time by a protester who also called him a climate denier. I think its OK for us to ask questions and be skeptical about information Perry said in response according to a EE News report of the event. Skepticism and debate are always welcome and are critically important to the advancement of science the letter said. In climate science unresolved questions remain issues that currently lack conclusive evidence. However there are also very solid conclusions that are based on decades of research and multiple lines of evidence. Skepticism that fails to account for evidence is no virtue. Later on TuesdayPerry was quizzed about climate change again during a White House press briefing arranged as part of the Trump administrations Energy Week.When asked if President Donald Trump believes in climate changePerry responded I have not had that conversation with him joining a growing list of officials who have refused to comment on the commander in chiefs position on this critical issue.	True	False	False	True	True
A tiny endangered butterfly could stop President Donald Trump from building his beloved border wall. A lawsuit has been filed by the Center for Biological Diversityenvironmental groups and the State of California against theU.S. Department of Homeland Security. It outlines that the Quino checkerspot butterfly Riverside fairy shrimp and the Pacific pocket mouse will be threatened if the border wall is built. The butterfly which is native to southern California and Northern Mexico is already on the endangered species list. The lawsuit contends that the Department of Homeland Security does not have the ability to waive environmental laws requiring review before building the wall. The suit seeks a ruling that a border wall with Mexico must go through normal environmental reviews which could block construction or at least cause major delays. The challengers contend that authority to waive the environmental reviews falls under a 2005 law which has expired. 'The Trump administration can't use an expired waiver to bypass crucial environmental protections to build these destructive projects' Brian Segee a senior attorney at CBDtold San Diego TV stationKGTV. 'It's time to stop Trump's hateful bombast and his executive overreach here in San Diego before it goes any further. The law and the Constitution are firmly on our side and we think the judge will agree.' The DHS is arguing that it is within its right to issue the waivers citing a 1996 immigration law. The case was set to be heard on Friday in San Diego by US DistrictJudge Gonzalo Curiel. Curiel came to national attention in 2016 when he was presiding over one of the cases against Trump University. Trump said that he was biased because of his 'Mexican Heritage' and Trump's stance on the border. At the time he told CNN'We are building a wall. He's a Mexican. We're building a wall between here and Mexico.' Now Curiel will be hearing a case about the wall. On Friday he heard two and a half hours of arguments and saidthat he was leaning toward deciding he has jurisdiction in a lawsuit that alleges the Trump administration overreached in waiving laws that require environmental and other reviews. The administration argues he doesn't have jurisdiction. Curiel asked the administration and wall opponents to file additional briefings by the end of Tuesday.	True	True	False	True	True
An upstate New York local official has promised no quarter in his towns battle against a planned wind power farm thathasDemocratic Gov. Andrew Cuomos support. Yates town councilman John Riggi opposes Apex Clean Energys plan to build a 200 megawatt wind turbine project over the objections of local officials and a majority of voters. Riggi says hes not opposed to green energy but doesnt want it nearby if his constituents dont support it. He wrote an editorial in a local paper this week pledging to accept no quarter in the fight against the Lighthouse Wind farm. The main concern is the desires of the constituency who are massively opposed to this project Riggi told The Daily Caller New Foundation. It is like 87 percent opposed. Cuomo plans to drastically increase New Yorks wind power capacity as part of his effort to phase out fossil fuels. Cuomo wants New York to get 50 percent of its electricity from green energy source by 2030. Cuomodid not return requests for comment to TheDCNF. Some of these turbines would be 750 feet high Riggi said. They want to put 70 of them in a 24 square mile area. It would completely change the community into something very different from how it feels Riggi said. People live here because they like rural living. They dont want their areas turned into industrialized zones. Lighthouse Wind could also run into opposition from environmentalists who are increasingly turning against wind power at the local level. Environmentalists have become concerned with wind powers impact on birds and bats. Wind farms kill an estimated 573000 birds and 888000 bats a year according to a 2013 peer reviewed study published in Wildlife Society Bulletin. Wind farms are projected to kill 1.4 million birds annually by 2030. This area sits astride the preeminent bird and avian flyway on the North American continent Riggi said. We have birds coming in massive amounts. Theres an issue with that. Its a danger to the birds and bats. Wind farms kill an estimated 573000 birds each year as well as888000 bats according to a 2013 peer reviewed study published inWildlife Society Bulletin.Wind farms are projected to kill1.4 million birds annuallyby 2030. Apex Clean Energy also works to ensure that our projects are responsibly sited for wildlife by conducting in depth environmental impact studies for every project Cat Strumlauf a spokesperson for Apex told TheDCNF. At every stage of development and operation we coordinate with federal and state wildlife agencies to make sure that our projects are sited in areas where impacts to birds or bats are minimized and appropriately mitigated if necessary. The projectcould harm with the regions economy potentially creating problems fora nearbyU.S. Air Force base. We also have an Air Force base 30 miles from the proposed project site Riggi said. The base is concerned about the wind project because it would mess with the radar. We have an aerial refueling and drone mission there. It could impact how theyre performing as well. The wind farm could make a nearby military base which is a critical part of the local economy much less useful. The base pump 200 million a year into the region and employs over 2600 people. Apex Clean Energy takes the safety and readiness of our military very seriously and we work closely with the Department of Defense and its services to ensure our wind energy facilities do not adversely impact military missions Strumlauf said. Riggi is also worried about the health concerns involving wind turbines. One of most common complaints about wind turbines by local residents is that they cause flickering when the sun is behind their blades. This is generally agreed to be incredibly annoying and theres evidence that it can cause headaches sleep disorders anxiety and depression symptoms in people who live nearby. Finally Riggi is concernedCuomos green goals give local governments very little flexibility to determine how they go green. One of the thing the governor is very clear on is that he wants all towns to become more green Riggi told TheDCNF. What I dont understand is with all of this going on why would the governor not allow the towns to choose how theyll support this initiative. Theres no flexibility. New York state currently gets less than 5 percent of its electricity from wind and solar according to the Energy Information AdministrationEIA. Thats a long way from Cuomos 50 percent by 2030 target. Do we want to reduce our carbon footprint? Riggi said. Certainly. But were not being given the option of deciding how to do it ourselves. Were full in on renewable energy but the town wants to have a choice. We want to be the ones to make the decisions on how were going to contribute. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	True	False	False	False	False
President Trump exceeded his authority when he reversed bans on offshore drilling in vast parts of the Arctic Ocean and dozens of canyons in the Atlantic Ocean a U.S. judge said in a ruling that restored the Obama era restrictions. U.S. District Court Judge Sharon Gleason in a decision late Friday threw out Mr. Trump's executive order that overturned the bans that comprised a key part of Obama's environmental legacy. Presidents have the power under a federal law to remove certain lands from development but cannot revoke those removals Gleason said. The wording of President Obama's 2015 and 2016 withdrawals indicates that he intended them to extend indefinitely and therefore be revocable only by an act of Congress said Gleason who was nominated to the bench by Obama. The American Petroleum Institute a defendant in the case disagreed with the ruling. In addition to bringing supplies of affordable energy to consumers for decades to come developing our abundant offshore resources can provide billions in government revenue create thousands of jobs and will also strengthen our national security it said in a statement. Erik Grafe an attorney with Earthjustice welcomed the ruling saying it shows that the president cannot just trample on the Constitution to do the bidding of his cronies in the fossil fuel industry at the expense of our oceans wildlife and climate. Earthjustice represented numerous environmental groups that sued the Trump administration over the April 2017 executive order reversing the drilling bans. At issue in the case was the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. Acting Assistant U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Wood said during a hearing before Gleason in November that environmental groups were misinterpreting the intent of the law written in 1953. He said it is meant to be flexible and sensible and not intended to bind one president with decisions made by another when determining offshore stewardship as needs and realities change over time. In 2015 Mr. Obama halted exploration in coastal areas of the Beaufort and Chukchi seas and the Hanna Shoal an important area for walrus. In late 2016 he withdrew most other potential Arctic Ocean lease areas about 98 percent of the Arctic outer continental shelf. The bans were intended to protect polar bears walruses ice seals and Alaska Native villages that depend on the animals. In the Atlantic Mr. Obama banned exploration in 5937 square miles of underwater canyon complexes citing their importance for marine mammals deep water corals valuable fish populations and migratory whales.	True	False	False	True	True
Global warming is partially responsible for a decades old oil spill that happened after an Exxon Mobil tanker hit a barrier reef according to a Los Angeles Times report funded in part by liberal billionaire George Soros. The LA Times published a wide ranging piece Thursday suggesting climate change laid the groundwork for the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill a disaster that eventually dumped more than 10 million gallons of crude off the coast of Alaska. Higher than normal water temperatures near Prince William Sound caused ice bergs to chip off the Columbia Glacier and force the ship into uncharted territory. Floating chunks of ice forced the tanker out of its primary shipping lane the paper noted. It veered off and crashed into the Bligh Reef causing Exxon more than 3.4 billion through 2008 in cleanup costs and court settlements. Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project the group that conducted the papers report was also involved in an investigation last November targeting Exxons climate change research. Thursdays report dovetails with the groups previous investigations showing the oil company hid knowledge about climate change from the public for years. For the two decades following the Exxon Valdez disaster the company worked quietly to safeguard its operations and infrastructure against steadily rising sea levels and thawing permafrost The LA Times wrote. Yet in public it vociferously fought regulations and policies that would have limited fossil fuel emissions while publicly questioning the science behind climate change. Some climate scientists believe the LA Times is taking a leap of faith. Roy Spencer a climate scientist at the University of Alabama in Huntsville for one told The Daily Caller News Foundation that ice always calves off glaciers because snow falls on the mountains and the ice flows downhill no global warming needed. There is a perfectly reasonable explanation for why ice bergs were cleaving off glaciers at the time of the Valdez disaster he said and it doesnt really have anything to do with man made global warming. If the Columbia Glacier was calving more in the 1980s its most likely because the Pacific Decadal Oscillation PDO flipped in the late 1970s which caused it to suddenly warm in Alaska Spencer added referencing an El Nino like weather pattern that commonly affects the area the oil spill. What happened to the Valdez is no different than what happened to the Titanic he said referring to the passenger ship that hit an iceberg in 1912 which killed thousands of people heading to New York from England. Several wealthy philanthropic groups such as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund RBF Rockefeller Family Fund RFF and the Open Society Foundations bankrolled large portions of the LA Times report. Soros is the director and founder of Open Society and has financed climate crusades in the past. RFF has single handedly financially propped up the anti Exxon campaign. It also pressured various attorneys general into investigating Exxon namely for the purposes of bringing the company up on racketeering charges. The only way to target Exxon for hiding climate change research was to request the New York AGs office to open an investigation into the company David Kaiser and Lee Wasserman directors of RFFwrote in an editorialfor New York Books. The LA Times for its part has failed in the past to disclose itsties with RFF. Wassermanwrote an op edin January for the California paper fleshing out specifics about the probes into Exxons climate research. The paper disclosed the Wassermans financial contributions to the investigation but falsely suggested RFF had nothing to do with the investigations. TheFund has made grants to the Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project and InsideClimate News but hasno involvement in articles they produce the papers disclosure notes. The disclosure implies RFF did not actively participate in the investigations which were first reported by environmental media group InsideClimate News and the LA Times last November. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	True	False	False	True	True
NASAs Cassini spacecraft has detected hydrogen molecules in the geysers shooting off the moon Enceladus possibly the result of deep sea chemical reactions between water and rock that could spark microbial life scientists announced Thursday. NASA and others are quick to point out this latest discovery does not mean theres life on Enceladus ehn SEHL uh duhs but that there may be conditions favorable for life. A liquid ocean exists beneath the icy surface of Enceladus which is barely 300 miles 500 kilometers across. Scientists have long known about the plumes of water vapor spewing from cracks at the moons south pole thanks to Cassini . The heavy presence of hydrogen suggests chemical reactions between the warm water and ocean floor rock that could support life. Cassini uncovered the hydrogen during its final close flyby of Enceladus in 2015 when it dove deeper than ever through its plumes of vapor and particles. The researchers reported that the hydrogen along with carbon dioxide that was also found could mean that undersea microbes are producing methane as they do in the bowels of our own oceans and waterways. It really represents a capstone finding for the mission said Cassinis project scientist Linda Spilker noting that the spacecraft has been circling Saturn for more than a decade. We now know that Enceladus has almost all of the ingredients that you would need to support life as we know it on Earth she said at a NASA news conference. A press conference viewer asking questions of the scientists via Twitter asked if NASA was talking about bacteria or algae or giant squids. Most of us would be excited with any life said Mary Voytek an astrobiology senior scientist for NASA. Were going to start with bacteria and if we get lucky maybe theres something thats larger. The findings were reported Thursday in the journal Science by a team from Southwest Research Institute in San Antonio. Launched in 1997 and now finally running low on fuel Cassini is drawing ever closer to its demise. The spacecraft will duck through the gap between Saturn and its rings 22 times before spiraling out of control and vaporizing in the sky above Saturn this September. Cassini has no instruments that can detect life so it will be up to future robotic visitors to seek out possible life on Enceladus the scientists said. Europa an ice covered moon of Jupiter also believed to have a subsurface ocean may have water vapor jets spewing into space as well similar to Enceladus. The Hubble Space Telescope has observed what looks to be plumes emanating from Europa. A spacecraft under development called the Europa Clipper to launch sometime in the 2020s could shed more light on the matter. Voytek said her money is still on Europa for potential life versus Enceladus since Europa is much older and any potential life there has had more time to emerge. While questions remain Thursdays news represents an important advance in assessing the habitability of Enceladus Woods Hole Oceanographic Institutions Jeffrey Seewald wrote in a companion article. We still have a long way to go in our understanding said Seewald who was not involved in the study. Future missions to explore oceans beyond Earth will answer many of these questions.	True	False	False	True	False
President Donald Trump delivered a common sense appeal on Earth Day telling his followers on Twitter on Saturday afternoon Today on Earth Day we celebrate our beautiful forests lakes and land. We stand committed to preserving the natural beauty of our nation. Three hours later Trump added I am committed to keeping our air and water clean but always remember that economic growth enhances environmental protection. Jobs matter! Trumps Earth Day messages come as thousands of protesters across the country have taken to the streets to defend science against what they claim are anti science policies and proposals from the White House. Critics of Trumps energy policies seized on the opportunity to criticize the president for his Earth Day message. Roland Scahill from New York wrote If you could you would transform every inch of nature into a Trump golf course. You have no love or admiration for nature. Public radio show host Al Letson wrote How will you preserve the natural beauty of the land if you dismantle the Nathan Bernard from Brooklyn New York replied on Twitter You say Happy as you prepare to literally blow up the entire earth. Then start taking action on global warming and quit calling it fake news said self described feminist and human rights activist Cole Ledford to Trump. One of the biggest complaints from protesters is Trump has proposed cutting 54 billion from numerous federal government agencies including a cut to the Environmental Protection Agency that tops 30 percent. Trump has also issued climate and energy related executive orders the most substantial of which was signed at the end of March. In that order which is titled Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth Trump pulled back from the Obama era Clean Power Plan and lifted a 14 month moratorium on new coal leases issued to developers seeking to mine on federal lands. According to a report by Fox News the order also chips away at other regulations including scrapping language on the social cost of greenhouse gases. It initiates a review of efforts to reduce the emission of methane in oil and natural gas production as well as a Bureau of Land Management hydraulic fracturing rule to determine whether those reflect the presidents policy priorities. It also rescinds Obama era executive orders and memoranda including one that addressed climate change and national security and one that sought to prepare the country for the impacts of climate change. Trump maintains that his policies will both protect the environment and help spur job growth. Were going to have safety were going to have clean water were going to have clean air but so many regulations are unnecessary so many are job killing Trump said in March.	True	False	False	False	True
Glamour Rep. John Shimkus R Ill. long a climate change denier who in the past has relied on Bible verses to make his case argued against the Green New Deal at a House hearing on Wednesday. Moments after he started speaking Wednesday morning before the House Committee on Energy and Commerce Rep. John Shimkus R Ill. urged Democrats to accept that proposing top down government requirements to rapidly decarbonize the U.S. and global economies may not be the most realistic way to address the climate change problem. We should be open to the fact that wealth transfer schemes suggested in the radical policies like the Green New Deal may not be the best path said Shimkus who less than a decade ago deployed Bible verses to dismiss the realities of climate science. Two congressional hearings on Wednesday morning the first science based discussions in the House focused on climate change in years did little to move the needle on a long stagnant policy debate on how to keep global warming from reaching temperatures with catastrophic consequences. But GOP opposition to a Green New Deal the grassroots effort to dramatically cut greenhouse gas emissions that has energized activists for months was on full display. Once a vague term for clean energy stimulus the Green New Deal re emergedin the political discourse in mid 2018. A cadre of left wing Democratic candidates began using it to describe plans to spend trillions of dollars on a national industrial strategy to zero out fossil fuel emissions and power the country with 100 percent renewables in a decade. The proposals electrified a static debate that too often ranged from outright denialism of climate change by some to dubious market fixes offered by others. Scientists quickly praised the idea of a Green New Deal as the first policy on the scale of the climate crisis. In November newly elected Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. positioned herself as the champion of the Green New Deal movement. After failing to persuade House Democratic leaders to establish a select committee on a Green New Deal she began work on a sweeping new resolution outlining a transformative policy to guarantee high wage clean energy jobs to millions of Americans and upgrade the nations crumbling infrastructure to withstand already unavoidable extreme weather and sea level rise. Despite years of partisan bickering over the realities of climate change the idea proved popular. Eighty one percent of registered voters said they supported the main goals of the Green New Deal in a poll released in December. That included 64 percent of Republicans and 57 percent of self described conservative Republicans. Last month another poll found a narrow majority of voters said they supported a Green New Deal even if it required raising taxes to fund it. Rich Powell the executive director of the conservative clean energy advocacy group ClearPath complained that the emissions projected to come from new coal fired plants in other countries particularly India and China would completely offset the climate benefits of the U.S. completely decarbonizing. As HuffPost reported on Tuesday the Green New Deal resolution Ocasio Cortez and Sen. Ed Markey D Mass. are expected to unveil this week does just that calling on the nation to promote the international exchange of technology expertise products funding and services with the aim to reclaim U.S. leadership on climate change to help other countries achieve a Green New Deal. You only have to be 25 years old to be a member of Congress. We have young people that bring a lot of great qualities but maybe they dont bring a lot of life experience he said. I guess I can understand if someone has not had a lot of life experience and theyre proposing something thats extremely unrealistic well impossible. Impossible. What I dont understand is adults and grownups who are older and more mature who are also advocating something thats impossible he added referring to several of the 2020 Democratic presidential hopefuls. Rep. Louie Gohmert R Texas resorted to misrepresenting the Green New Del proposal in arguing against it. He said he and other Republicans have real concerns about shuttering military bases around the globe and cutting military spending by 50 percent proposals floated not by any congressional Democrats in the climate change debate but by Green Party presidential nominee Jill Stein in 2016. Gohmert told panel witness Rev. Lennox Yearwood president of the national nonprofitHip Hop Caucus that he found it interesting at the activist would support a Green New Deal given Yearwoods previous service as an officer in the U.S. Air Force Reserve Chaplain Corps.	False	False	False	True	False
Reuters U.S. presidential hopeful Kamala Harris campaign is finalizing a plan to tackle climate change that will center on cracking down on fossil fuel companies and protecting poor neighborhoods from the worst impacts of global warming according to two sources familiar with the matter. The plan is meant to set the U.S. senator from California apart in a crowded field of Democratic presidential candidates by drawing on her experience prosecuting polluters as a California attorney general and district attorney. At the same time it is intended to assuage environmental activists worried that she has downplayed climate change on the campaign trail. All of the other top tier presidential candidates have already detailed aggressive plans to eliminate U.S. greenhouse gas emissions within 10 to 30 years tapping into what has become a crucial issue for Democratic voters. She wants to distinguish herself from other candidates that have already laid out climate plans with her own approach that plays to her strengths focusing on environmental justice and enforcement said one of the sources. Like the other candidates Harris plan will also likely target a swift end to fossil fuels use though the details are still being drafted the sources said. The campaign is expected to release the plan ahead of a climate change focused town hall with the candidates on Sept. 4 they said. A spokeswoman for Harris campaign Kate Waters declined to comment on the details but said Harris would be releasing something soon. While activist groups say they are generally happy with Harris environmental credentials she has drawn their criticism since launching her presidential bid. Last week for example she came under fire from the Sunrise Movement and other climate change activists when she initially declined to participate in the televised Sept. 4 climate change town hall to attend a fundraiser. Her campaign later announced she had changed her plans and would attend. During campaign speeches she tends to include a brief mention of climate change calling it a real crisis and adding that she would re engage the United States in global efforts to fight it if elected. Republican President Donald Trump has rolled back U.S. climate change rules he views as damaging to the economy and announced plans to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement an international accord to limit global warming. Bahram Fazeli director of research and policy for Communities for a Better Environment a California focused environmental justice group said Harris record on the environment was decent. As a senator Harris was among the original co sponsors of the Green New Deal a nonbinding congressional resolution to zero out U.S. emissions by 2030 and introduced bills to denounce Trumps efforts to roll back Californias vehicle emissions standards and drill for oil and natural gas in federal waters. She has also co sponsored an environmental justice bill with Green New Deal author congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio Cortez which includes the creation of a federal office for environmental justice. Previously as Californias attorney general Harris was charged with protecting the states progressive environmental laws in the courts. Her biggest environmental victory according to green groups came in 2016 when a grand jury indicted Plains All American Pipeline on criminal charges related to a 2015 oil spill off the coast of Santa Barbara. She also reportedly launched an investigation in 2016 into whether Exxon Mobil lied to the public and shareholders about the risks of climate change though her office never confirmed the probe. Since then both New York and Massachusetts have pursued cases against the oil company. Earlier as district attorney for San Francisco Harris also created the citys first environmental crimes unit.	True	True	False	True	True
So saysJames Lovelock 98 one of the worlds pre eminent environmentalists in a wide ranging interview on todays Delingpole podcast for Breitbart. Lovelock is probably best known in environmental circles as the progenitor of Gaia theory the idea that the planet is a self regulating living organism. In 2006 he boosted his green credibility even further with his bestselling book The Revenge of Gaia whose doomsday narrative predicted that by 2100 climate change would have wiped out 80 percent of the worlds population. But Lovelock has since renounced this view. Though he still thinks carbon dioxide is a problem because of its warming effects on the climate he now believes the threat is not immediate. His change of heart was brought aboutpartly by being in Oslo when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. He was not impressed by the calibre of the scientists attached to the IPCC least of all its then head Rajendra Pachauri who turned out to be somewhat corrupt. There is global warming. But the stupid bloody academics screwed it up he says now meaning that they got their sums wrong and exaggerated the speed with which the planet is warming. A bigger worry he says are the wrong headed policies being introduced supposedly to combat climate change. He particularly loathes wind turbines because they are expensive inefficient and environmentally damaging. The only reason they are being built he says is because there is so much money in renewable energy. Im sure theres giant corruption going on. The solution he argues is nuclear power which has had a terrible press because of green propaganda most likely funded by fossil fuel industries. Nuclears health risks have been exaggerated by credulous greens who say theres no amount of radiation that cant give you cancer. But this is nonsense says Lovelock. Its as stupid as saying you should never go out of your home because if you do theres a chance youll be killed by something or other. He feels the same way about the scare about pesticides which greens have been heavily promoting ever since Rachel Carsons eco doom bestseller Silent Spring published in 1962. It was Lovelock who invented the device an Electron Capture Detector used to measure the tiniest quantities of substances be they pesticides or CFCs. What this device showed is that yes pesticides have indeed become so embedded in the food chain that they are detectable in every living thing. This has made the Greens very happy he says because it seems to confirm all their worst suspicions about pollutants chemicals and health hazards. But it shouldnt he adds because with certain exceptions they are not a problem. The fact that this stuff is there measured in picograms or fractions of a picogram is of no consequence to people he says. Lovelocks remarks are unlikely to endear him to the green movement. His Gaia hypothesis first formulated in the 1960s while he was working with NASA trying to establish how to detect life on Mars has inspired many people to join the green religion. And even like actress Emma Thompson to name their daughter after it. But far far worse in many environmentalists eyes will bethe unlikely revelation he confided to me over lunch hes a great admirer of Donald Trump whom he recognises as a fellow maverick.	False	False	True	False	False
According to Lawrence Solomon of Energy Probe a Toronto based environmental organization Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is one of the only signers of the Paris agreement who is actually abiding by the exacting demands of the accord. Meanwhile Solomon notes in an essay in Fridays Financial Post most signatories are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios. Trudeau now stands almost alone in sincere support of Paris Solomon writes. The populist backlash a revulsion at top down governments laden with jet setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses has swept America with Trumps election Great Britain with Brexit much of Europe and Australia. In the process global warming enthusiasts are being swept out he writes. Last week Australia rejected its Clean Energy Target CET a lengthy proposal that would have forced electricity utilities to rely on renewables and other low emission sources for a substantial percentage of their production. The measure had been put forward as a way of complying with requirements of the non binding Paris agreement. Earlier this month the prominent Australian economist Judith Sloan wrote a scathing essay decrying renewable energy as the greatest scam being perpetrated against taxpayers and consumers greater even than Ponzi Madoffor Enron. While sinking enormous financial resources into propping up renewable energy prospectors national governments are providing no perceptible benefits to their citizens Sloan wrote. With very few exceptions governments all over the world have fallen into the trap of paying renewable energy scammers on the basis that it is necessary at least politically to be seen to be doing something about climate change Sloan writes before providing readers with an avalanche of economic data to back up her assertion. Apparently Sloans arguments and those of like minded analysts prevailed on policy makers and the country rejected the CET with its taxpayer funded subsidizing of renewables. A second blow to disciples of the Paris Climate Accord was last weeks Austrian election Solomon argues which saw two conservative parties with no interest in climate change it wasnt even an election issue come in first and second making them likely to form a pro carbon coalition government. Germany too which has been a staunch proponent of anti climate change regulations has fallen hopelessly behind in meeting its carbon targets according to a leak. The current state of affairs has not only undermined Germanys climate policy but also jeopardizes Germanys international reputation as a climate leader Solomon asserts. According to the analyst popular opinion against German Chancellor Angela Merkels Energiewende energy transition policies which had doubled electricity prices played no small part in Merkels terrible showing in last months national elections. Costs of the ill fated Energiewende now total some 650 billion a bill that weighs heavily on the shoulders of German taxpayers. Late last year to their national embarrassment the Germans had to be bailed out of a small energy crisis by Poland when the wind failed to blow for several days and a thick fog surrounded many parts of Germany driving the output from renewables to just 4 percent of total demand. It was coal fueled Poland that had to rescue Germany from its self induced energy crisis. Merkel may now be unable to form a government without the support of the libertarian Free Democratic Party which demands an end to renewables subsidies Solomon notes. And so around the worldexcept in Trudeaus Canadanations are once again turning back to inexpensive coal rather than pouring more money into costly renewables and coal plants are being built at five times the rate that old plants are being decommissioned. This quiet revolution may simply be a welcome return to common sense and realism. After all once the photo ops are finished and the politically correct accords are duly signed amidst solemn brow furling political leaders must get back to the business of meeting the real needs of their citizenswhich all depend on the availability of affordable energy.	True	False	False	True	True
President Donald Trump tweeted Sunday that a series of deadly wildfires hitting California are 'being magnified made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized.' Trump complained that the water is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean and called for clearing forests as a means of stopping fires from spreading. He didn't thank the armies of firefighters who are battling the blazes or the nine people who have died in the infernos. In September 2017 Trump's Interior Department ordered national parks to clear underbrush and small trees as a preventive measure. Two White House spokespersons did not respond to a question Monday about what Trump's tweet meant. But the president's claim about water drew a combination of laughing and head scratching on Sunday although years of drought may be one factor in the fires' quick spread. 'It boggles the mind' said UC Merced professor LeRoy Westerling who specializes in wildfire and climatology. 'We do manage all of our rivers in California and all the water is allocated many times over. So Im not sure what he was recommending' he told the San Francisco Chronicle. The only broadly discussed proposal for diverting water away from the Pacific came three years ago from a group calledTree People which called for more Californians to collect rainwater draining off roofs and down concrete streets. California already strictly metes out water rights for agricultural industrial and residential use. Firefighters haven't complained about a lack of water resources. And most engaged in the effort are using chemical flame retardants. The White House also announced Sunday that Trump had issued a 'major disaster' declaration in affected areas of Shasta County where about 150000 acres west of the city of Redding are engulfed in flames. That move gives Californians access to unemployment assistance food aid and legal and mental health counseling and makes federal financial assistance available to cities and counties that will have to repair billions of dollars worth of infrastructure damage. It also allows federal agencies to help battle the 17 major fires burning throughout the state including what is now known as the 'Carr fire' which is just 40 per cent contained and has incinerated more than 1000 homes.	False	False	False	False	False
Former Vice President Al Gore accused the Trump administration of trying to bury a damning government report that linked global warming to the worsening of natural disasters by quietly releasing the study on the Friday after Thanksgiving. Gore who since his time as vice president has become an outspoken advocate for the need to counteract the effects of global warming said in a statement that the White House was trying to bury this critical U.S. assessment of the climate crisis by releasing it the day after Thanksgiving. The day known as Black Fridayhas become the traditional start of the holiday shopping season and one that most Americans have off from work. Unbelievably deadly and tragic wildfires rage in the West hurricanes batter our coasts and the Trump administration chooses the Friday after Thanksgiving to try and bury this critical U.S. assessment of the climate crisis Gore said in a statement that he posted on Twitter Friday.The president may try to hide the truth but his own scientists and experts have made it as stark and clear as possible. The National Climate Assessment which is mandated by law every few years and is based on more than 1000 previous research studies details how global warming from the burning of coal oil and gas is hurting each region of the United States and how it impacts different sectors of the economy including energy and agriculture. It was written long before the deadly fires in California this month and before Hurricanes Florence and Michael raked the East Coast and Florida. Climate change is transforming where and how we live and presents growing challenges to human health and quality of life the economy and the natural systems that support us the report says. This includes worsening air pollution causing heart and lung problems more diseases from insects the potential for a jump in deaths duringheat waves and nastier allergies according to the report. Annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century more than the current gross domestic product GDP of many U.S. states the report says. It'll be especially costly on the nation's coasts because of rising seas and severe storm surges which will lower property values. And in some areas such as parts of Alaska and Louisiana coastal flooding will likely force people to relocate. While Gore has become one of the most prominent advocates for reducing carbon emissions and fighting to reduce the effect of climate change the former vice president has not been immune from claims that his work is not as altruistic as it appears. Gore left the vice presidents residence with a relatively modest net worth of 1.7 million mostly from family farm assets but since the release of his 2006 documentary An Inconvenient Truth and his continuing global tour to preach his message he has amassed a fortune valued at upward of 200 million. From the fossil fuels he burns jetting around the globe to his socializing with Hollywood heavy hitters to his 6500 square foot seafront home in California that cost 8.8 million some climate activists have questioned whether Gore is helping or hurting the climate fight. He is a flawed character Stephen Lacey editor in chief of the magazine GreenTechMedia said on his podcast The Energy Gang last year. Were in an era of backlash against elites so Gore a guy who bought a 6500 square foot seafront home in California for 8.8 million and who hangs around with other celebrities who talk big on climate but who live lavish lifestyles is the perfect target at this point in time. Gores lifestyle aside his statement comes amid what appears to be a continuing denial from Trump and members of his administration about the dangers climate changeposes to the environment and to the worlds economy. Earlier in the week Trump tweeted about the brutal cold spell that hit the East Coast over the Thanksgiving holiday and questioned Whatever happened to Global Warming? Friday's report seemed to anticipate such comments saying Over shorter timescales and smaller geographic regions the influence of natural variability can be larger than the influence of human activity ... Over climate timescales of multiple decades however global temperature continues to steadily increase. The Lower 48 states have warmed 1.8 degrees 1 degree Celsius since 1900 with 1.2 degrees in the last few decades according to the report. By the end of the century the U.S. will be 3 to 12 degrees 1.6 to 6.6 degrees Celsius hotter depending on how much greenhouse gases are released into the atmosphere the report warns. Releasing the report on Black Friday is a transparent attempt by the Trump administration to bury this report and continue the campaign of not only denying but suppressingthe best of climate science said study co author Andrew Light an international policy expert at the World Resources Institute. During a press conference Friday officials behind the report repeatedly declined to answer questions about the timing of its release and why it contradicts public statements from Trump. Report director David Reidmiller said questions about the timing were relevant but said what was in the report was more important. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	True	False	True	True	True
A United Nations special climate report suggests a tax on carbon dioxide emissions would need to be as high as 27000 per ton at the end of the century to effectively limit global warming. For Americans thats the same as a 240 per gallon tax on gasoline in the year 2100 should such a recommendation be adopted. In 2030 the report says a carbon tax would need to be as high as 5500 thats equivalent to a 49 per gallon gas tax. If you think thats an unlikely scenario youre probably not wrong. However its what the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes report released Sunday night sees as a policy option for reducing emissions enough to keep projected warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. The IPCCs report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December. The report calls for societal changes that are unprecedented in terms of scale in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius the stretch goal of the Paris accord. However the costs of meeting that goal are high based on the IPCCs own figures. RELATED Heres What The Media Wont Tell You About The U.N.s New Climate Report In order to effectively keep future warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius the IPCC says carbon taxes would need to range from 135 to 5500 per ton in 2030 245 to 13000 per ton in 2050 420 to 17000 per ton in 2070 and 690 to 27000 per ton in 2100. To meet the goals of the Paris accord which seeks to limit future warming to below 2 degrees Celsius the IPCC says carbon taxes would have range between 10 and 200 in 2030 and 160 and 2125 in 2100. Thats equivalent to a gas tax as high as 1.70 per gallon in 2030 to nearly 19 per gallon at the end of the century. Thats less onerous than limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius but still no walk in the park. California and many European countries have policies to price carbon dioxide emissions and mandate green energy including cap and trade systems and carbon taxes. But carbon prices under those systems are nowhere near where the IPCC says they need to be. The IPCC said the price of carbon would need to increase significantly when a higher level of stringency is pursued. However the groups report tacitly acknowledges the unlikelihood that governments will enact astronomical taxes on energy. While the price of carbon is central to prompt mitigation pathways compatible with 1.5 degree Celsius consistent pathways a complementary mix of stringent policies is required reads the IPCCs report. In the U.S. Republican lawmakers overwhelmingly passed a resolution opposed to carbon taxes in July. Democrats called for a price on carbon dioxide in their 2016 party platform but they havent made much effort on that front since the failure of cap and trade legislation in 2010. Republican Rep. Carlos Curbelo of Florida introduced carbon tax legislation shortly after all but five of his GOP colleagues in the House voted to oppose such a bill. Curbelos bill would tax carbon dioxide at 23 a ton nowhere near what the IPCC calls for. However the IPCC suggested a lower carbon tax could be used in conjunction with command and control policies like regulations and bans on coal plants could achieve generate a 1.5C pathway for the U.S. electric sector. But that point only serves to undermine Curbelos bill which would put a moratorium on some environmental regulations and possibly eliminate some if emissions goals are reached. The IPCC noted the literature indicates that the pricing of emissions is relevant but needs to be complemented with other policies to drive the required changes in line with 1.5C consistent cost effective pathways.	True	True	True	True	True
Former Secretary of State John Kerry and Rep. Thomas Massie R Ky. had a heated exchange Tuesday over Kerry's education andclimate change. Kerry 75 appeared before the House Oversight and Reform Committee hearing to talk about climate change. The incredible exchange began when Massie read a quote Kerry said regarding President Trumps advisers. It sounds like youre questioning the credentials of the presidents advisers but I dont think we should question your credentials today. Isnt it true you have a science degree from Yale? Massie asked Kerry. Kerry replied that he had a bachelor of arts degree from the university. JOHN KERRY 'IT'S A MISTAKE TO TALK ABOUT IMPEACHMENT' Yes its political science the former Massachusetts senator said. So how do you get a bachelor of arts in science? the congressman asked. So its not really science. I think its somewhat appropriate that somebody with a pseudoscience degree is here pushing pseudoscience in front of our committee Massie said before Kerry fired back. Are you serious? I mean this is really happening here? the former secretary of state asked. JOHN KERRY SLAMMED FOR 'SHAMEFUL' SHADOW DIPLOMACY AFTER ADMITTING TO MEETINGS WITH IRAN The two men continued their back and forth before Massie asked Kerry if he was saying the president doesnt have educated adults there now. I dont know who he has there because it'ssecret he replied. Why would he have to have a secret analysis of climate change? The two then began to discusscarbon dioxide levels on the planet today versus millions of years ago. But there werent human beings that was a different world folks Kerry said. So howd it get to 2000 parts per million if we humans werent here? Did geology stop when we got on the planet? Massie asked. This is just not a serious conversation Kerry fired back. Its almost as if someone said Congress has hit rock bottom and Massie replies with hold my beer he wrote. CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP Massie replied to Kerrys tweet saying Its almost as if someone said No one has less knowledge of science a higher opinion of himself and a bigger carbon footprint than Al Gore and Kerry replies hold my champagne Im going to testify as a climate change expert.	False	True	False	True	False
Sen. Elizabeth Warren D MA on Wednesday unveiled her plan to address environmental injustice and environmental racism which includes a 1 trillion investment into minority communities affected by industrial pollution. Warren argues that justice plays a massive role in properly addressing the climate change crisis citing studies that suggest that black and Hispanic families are disproportionately affected by air pollution caused by white people Warren calls this phenomenon environmental racism and concludes that environmental injustice is the result of decades of discrimination and environmental racism compounding in communities that have been overlooked for too long. She previewed her plan in a video clip featuring far left Squad member Rep. Rashida Tlaib D MI. We need a government thats on the side of familiesnot giant corporations polluting our communities. and I walked through 48217 the most polluted zip code in Michigan and talked with the families living every day with the effects of pollution Warren tweeted alongside the clip Like Warrens other proposals her environmental injustice plan weaves in aspects of her other campaign promises. For instance Warren says her housing plan will provide an assistance program aimed to get impoverished families out of poor pollution ridden neighborhoods and into the neighborhood of their choice. She also pledges to invest one third or 1 trillion of her climate change investment into the most vulnerable communities although she does not specify what the 1 trillion will be spent on specifically. Like most of Warrens plans her environmental injustice proposal involves the implementation of another tax. In this instance it is the Superfund Waste Tax. There are over 1300 remaining Superfund sites across the country many located in or adjacent to frontline communities. So called orphan toxic waste clean ups were originally funded by a series of excise taxes on the petroleum and chemical industries. But thanks to Big Oil and other industry lobbyists when that tax authority expired in 1995 it was not renewed. Polluters must pay for the consequences of their actions not leave them for the communities to clean up. Ill work with Congress to reinstate and then triple the Superfund tax generating needed revenue to clean up the mess. The presidential hopeful even weaves in Medicare for All as part of her broader proposal arguing such a system will make it easier for the federal government to quickly tailor health care responses to specific environmental disasters in affected communities when they occur. Warren also reiterates her pledge to ensure that employers and our government honor the promises they made to workers in fossil fuel industries. Ive fought for years to protect pensions and health benefits for retired coal workers and Ill continue fighting to maintain the solvency of multi employer pension plans she said. As president Ill protect those benefits that fossil fuel workers have earned. However Warrens role in crafting a petition to the Supreme Court on behalf of LTV Steel which helped the companys fight against a congressional requirement that it pay millions of dollars into a fund for its retired coal miners health care calls her promise into question. As Ive traveled this country Ive heard the human stories from frontline communities. Families where many people have cancer. Coastal communities facing the threat of rising sea levels. Ruined land and poisoned water Warren tweeted. These communities need justiceand I will stand with them she added	True	False	False	True	False
Former Vice President Al Gore said the Central American migrant caravan seeking asylum in the U.S. is a recent startling example of global warming forcing people from their homes. People from all over the world are being forced to migrate because the climate crisis is affecting their livelihood. The migrant caravan from Central America is a recent startling example Gore tweeted Monday. The migrant caravan made up of thousands of mostly young males from Honduras and other Central American countries arrived at the U.S. Mexico border in November seeking asylum. Migrants are fleeing violent corrupt countries with poor economies but some environmentalists and journalists claim global warming is also to blame. Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on climate change and the migrant caravan claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence climate change is also playing a part based on an interview with a farmer turned migrant whos crop failed. The video published on Dec. 13 largely reflects arguments made by some media outlets in the past few months that migrant caravans to the U.S. are a preview of climate migrations meaning people driven from their homes due to global warming. Many experts who have seriously examined claims linking climate to violent conflict and mass migrations have found little evidence to support such claims but the media still applied the narrative by linking global warming to Central American migrations. Experts say that climate change in the region is exacerbating and sometimes causing a miasma of other problems including crop failures and povertyThe Guardian reported in October. And they warn that in the coming decades it is likely to push millions more people north towards the US the paper reported. Central American officials also claim global warming is part of the reason why their citizens are fleeing en mass. Governments say droughts have been made more frequent and intense by global warming. However the latest United Nations climate report in 2014 found low confidence in a global scale observed trend in drought or dryness lack of rainfall since the middle of the 20th century. The Guardian also noted that federal data showed a surge in outward migration from western Honduras a prime coffee producing area. The collapse in coffee bean prices has made growing it less profitable forcing migrants to hit the road. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	False	True
Arriving at the UN General Assembly US President Donald Trump paid no attention to Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg. Caught on camera her stare sparked a thousand tweets and divided the public. While Thunberg was giving a fiery speech at the UNGA Climate Action Summit Trump was speaking at an event about religious freedom. Video from the UN headquarters on East River shows Thunberg scowling as Trump enters the building to speak to reporters not even registering her presence. Trumps critics were quick to make Thunberg their sherodescribing her stare their new life goals and declaring that the 16 year old climate activist became president today. We are all Greta another resistance activist proclaimed sharing a photo of Thunberg scowling at Trump next to a photo of her meeting his predecessor Barack Obama. Conservatives who saw the images reacted differently praising Trump for ignoring Thunberg as if he did it on purpose and even meme ing her scowl to music and song lyrics. Trump has nixed dozens of Obama administration environmental regulations calling them deadly to the economy much to the outrage of climate activists. A faction among the Democrats has since proposed a Green New Deal that would eliminate carbon emissions altogether and reorder the US economy entirely warning that otherwise the world would end in 12 years. Thunberg is even more pessimistic. At the current rate the world will go over the carbon emissions cap in eight and a half years she warned in her speech on Monday. You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words she thundered at the world leaders on Monday. People are suffering. People are dying. Entire ecosystems are collapsing. We are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth. How dare you! Thunbergs fiery speech was likewise met with praise or disdain depending on where one stood in regard to the narrative of manmade climate change. The environmentalist movement is increasingly convinced that humanity is destroying the planet and has already called for banning the production and consumption of meat outlawing fossil fuels and shuttering down nuclear power plants despite the cost and burden on people that may produce. Later on Monday the president did finally notice the young activist. In an apparent jab at Thunberg he tweeted she looked like a very happy girl alongside a clip of her 'angry' address before the UN. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False	True	False	True	True
WASHINGTON The Democratic chairman of a key congressional panel Tuesday characterized the Trump administration's latest efforts to challenge the science behind climate change as dangerous. The comments by Rep. JosSerrano D N.Y. chairman of aHouse Appropriations subcommittee overseeing federal climate fundingcame amid news reports that White House officials are putting together a national security advisory panel aimed at countering the science behind human caused global warming. The panel's findings could give President Donald Trump who has challenged his own government's conclusions about the causes of and threats from climate change more ammunition to ignore it. Serrano who chairs the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce Justice Science and Related Agencies said that would be perilous. This unaccountable working group appears set to deliberately cherry pick data and science with the sole purpose of pushing back against the widely accepted science around climate change he said at a hearing Tuesday thatfeatured government scientists testifying on the crisis. This only serves to diminish the magnitude of this crisis and it is dangerous. Shortly after Serrano spoke Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer D N.Y. announced Senate Democrats are drafting legislation that would block the White House from creating the panel. This is maybe the most conspicuous symptom of a disease of climate denial that has infected the Republican Party and the hard right Schumer said ata Capitol Hill news conference. The science is largely settled on climate change and the threats it poses the panel. But the public relations war over how to address it is heating up as both sides navigate an issue expected to be a top issue in the 2020 election. Democrats who retook the House following the 2018 midterm election have been holding numerous hearings on the crisis. Republicans in turn have accused Democrats of trying to use climate change to impose a leftist agenda that would ruin the economy. In early Februaryprogressive Democrats unveiled their Green New Deal to remake the American economy into a social justice model focused on clean energy. But moderate Democrats have distanced themselves from the broadly worded plan that also calls for free housing health care and higher education for all Americans preferring only to endorse the portions that directly address climate change. Related 250 dead 91 billion in damages 2018 was a catastrophic year for U.S. weather 4th warmest for globe Related Green New Deal Why the GOP secretly likes Democrats' climate change plan Related Climate combat Democrats say Pentagon puts troops at risk by downplaying global warming Trump has touted environmental deregulation and his abandonment of Obama era steps to confront climate change as pillars of his America First economic agenda that has helped spur growth and lift the financial markets. But moderate Republicans are urging their party to stop challenging the science and starts confronting the problem of higher temperatures worsening natural disasters and rising sea levels. This is like a call to arms. Lets have conservatives have a discussion instead of being in denial that this is a problem former Ohio GOP Gov. John Kasich who ran against Trump in 2016 is expected to say at a speech Tuesday at the University of British Columbia. You cant just be a science denier. The White House would not confirm reports on the panel. Asked about the formation of the panel a National Security Council representative said the administration wants to ensure that decisions are fully informed and based on the most accurate and relevant information available. John Kerry who served as President Barack Obama's secretary of State wrote in a Washington Post column Tuesday that Trump should abandon the effort to discredit the science. As we careen toward irreversible environmental tipping points we have no time to waste debating alternative facts only to invest years more reestablishing trust in the real ones Kerry wrote. No panel 10 years from now can put the ice sheets back together or hold back rising tides. During Tuesday's hearingNASAEarth Science Division Director Michael Freilich was asked about the scientific integrity of the administration's most recent climate assessment released in November which White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders described as not based on facts. The report is a comprehensive scientificallyrigorouslyanalysisand assessmentif the availableinformationprimarily from the U.S. government Freilich said. We have made measurements of manyclimate indicators and many of the Earth's systems and it is clear that the climate is changing. David Doniger a climate change expert with the Natural Resources Defense Council said he was notworried about the administration's efforts to discredit the science given the preponderance of evidence. It just seems so late in the day he said. It's no longer a future hypothetical it's real. And to think that you're going to be able to stave offpublic concerns and public demand for action by ... writing a denial report seems too late.	True	True	True	True	True
HAZARD Ky. The head of the Environmental Protection Agency said Monday that he will sign a new rule overriding the Clean Power Plan an Obama era effort to limit carbon emissions from coal fired power plants. The war on coal is over EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt declared in the coal mining state of Kentucky. For Pruitt getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma. Pruitt was among about two dozen attorney generals who sued to stop President Barack Obamas push to limit carbon emissions. Closely tied to the oil and gas industry in his home state Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man man emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change. President Donald Trump who appointed Pruitt and shares his skepticism of established climate science promised to kill the Clean Power Plan during the 2016 campaign as part of his broader pledge to revive the nations struggling coal mines. In his order Tuesday Pruitt is expected to declare that the Obama era rule exceeded federal law by setting emissions standards that power plants could not reasonably meet. Appearing at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Pruitt said The EPA and no federal agency should ever use its authority to say to you we are going to declare war on any sector of our economy. Obamas plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. The rule dictated specific emission targets for states based on power plant emissions and gave officials broad latitude to decide how to achieve reductions. The Supreme Court put the plan on hold last year following legal challenges by industry and coal friendly states. Even so the plan helped drive a recent wave of retirements of coal fired plants which also are being squeezed by lower costs for natural gas and renewable power as well as state mandates promoting energy conservation. The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obamas legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants. The president announced earlier this year that he will pull the United States out of the landmark Paris climate agreement. Nearly 200 countries have committed to combat global warming by reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming. Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker contributed to this report from Washington.	True	False	False	True	True
And on Monday 19 buses carrying more than 1500 activists from across the state converged on the state capital to protest Cuomos failure to do more about climate change in his eight years in office and make demands that looked identical to Nixons platform.It was the largest environmental protest against Cuomo since anti fracking activists staged demonstrations in 2014. To some Cuomos status as a climate pariah may be surprising. In 2014 he put a moratorium on hydraulic fracturing or fracking for natural gas in the state. In 2015 Al Gore joined the governor as he announced plans to cut the states greenhouse gases emissions 40 percent by 2030. Last June Cuomo loudly rejected President Donald Trumps move to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate accord ramping up New Yorks pledge to produce half its electricity from renewables by 2030 and forging a new alliance with the governors of Washington and California to stick to the goals agreed to by former President Barack Obama. Climate change is a reality and not to address it is gross negligence by government said Cuomo according to a new page on the state website with the banner Environment Leadership. But Cuomos policies still fail to meet even the baseline targets scientists say are needed to make a difference on global warming. His reduction targets focus exclusively on power plants ignoring the majority of the states emissions that come from buildings and vehicles. He has no plan to get the state to 100 percent renewable electricity and has offered little to protect low income communities and neighborhoods of color that suffer most from the impacts of climate change. The states pension funds remain invested in fossil fuels and polluters face no penalties in the form of fines on climate linked damage or taxes on emissions. As Nixon gains in the polls and lands magazine covers Cuomo is scrambling to act on long neglected progressive demands. Three weeks ago over coffee and cookies at a Manhattan steakhousethe governor made a deal to disband the Independent Democratic Conference known as the IDC. The group of eight breakaway Democrats in the state Senate caucused with Republicans guaranteeing a conservative majority in the chamber now only one holdout Brooklyn Democrat Simcha Felder has left Republicans with a flimsy one vote majority. Cuomo also signed an executive order last week restoring voting rights to felons on parole and voiced support for legalizing recreational marijuana a policy Nixon made a platform issue in her campaign. On Friday almost simultaneous to the release of Nixons climate platform Cuomo denied a water quality permit to a new natural gas pipeline environmentalists have protested for months and announced a new energy efficiency initiative that would account for one third of the emissions cuts required to meet his 2030 target. But Cuomos next big test on climate change is one he has already failed twice. For the third time in as many years the state assembly is slated to vote this week on the latest version of the New York State Climate and Community Protection Act known as the CCPA. The bill is widely considered the most ambitious and egalitarian climate legislation introduced anywhere in the nation. Heather McGhee president of the left leaning think tank Demos and the economist Robert Reich called it the most progressive climate equity policy weve seen. The legislation first introduced in 2016 calls for 100 percent renewable energy statewide by 2050 and orders state agencies to draft plans to cut greenhouse gas emissions from power plants buildings and vehicles. It requires 40 percent of state energy funding to go to the low income neighborhoods and communities of color most vulnerable to sea level rise and extreme weather and includes wage standards backed by labor unions for all state funded green energy projects. If enacted the bills proponents say it would create more than 100000 jobs. For Assemblyman Steve Englebright the Long Island Democrat who first introduced the CCPA the bill is 20 years overdue. The 71 year old lawmaker from Setauket a coastal hamlet on Long Island Sound started warning about the threat of runaway global warming two decades ago. He has since sponsored several bills to support solar and wind production at least three of which became laws. In 2016 he became chairman of the Assembly Committee on Environmental Conservation and moved swiftly to draft and introduce the CCPA. There needs to be some adjustments made in the perception of how important this bill is to bring it into the executive chamber ready for the governors signatureEnglebright said Friday. If we can get it onto his desk hell have no choice but to sign it. New Yorkers overwhelmingly support environmental regulations even at an economic cost. Seventy one percent of New Yorkers support expanding renewable energy generation even if it raises electricity prices compared to 61 percent nationwide according to Cooperative Congressional Election Studys 2016 survey results analyzed for HuffPost by Data for Progress a left leaning think tank. That support cuts across demographics including 75 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 67 percent of people 65 years and older 73 percent of urban dwellers and 67 percent of rural New Yorkers and 74 percent of black people and 69 percent of whites. Sixty seven percent of New Yorkers support strengthening enforcement of clean air and water regulations even if it costs U.S. jobs compared to 58 percent nationwide. The support breaks down similarly across the state with 73 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 61 percent of people 65 and older 71 percent of urbanites and 60 percent of rural people and 75 percent of black people and 64 percent of whites.	False	False	False	True	True
flickr Tim Evanson Good news these days is hard to find. So when a vote to overturn a relatively obscure rule governing oil and gas drilling on public lands failed green groups were understandably jubilant. Fifty one senators decided to put the best interests of taxpayers and the environment first and narrowly saved a rule to limit methane emissions. This means that instead of wasting hundreds of millions of dollars worth of natural gas methane is its primary component companies will capture and sell it. Because companies drilling on public land pay royalties on the oil and gas sold this means the public will receive tens of millions of dollars in revenue from gas thats currently burned or left to leak out and pollute the atmosphere. This means more money in our coffers and less greenhouse gas in our atmosphere. But lost in the post vote beltway analysis is the fact that this is also a big win for national security. While thats not the most apparent result of the vote its one that should resonate with the Republicans who otherwise champion the military but bristle at environmental protections. Thats because the rule puts otherwise wasted methane to use boosting our energy security and reducing our dependence on foreign sources of energy. Since natural gas is sold globally and Russia is a major exporter boosting US production like this rule does cuts into Russias share of the market. The more we produce the less our European allies have to rely on Russian gas for their power supply. By making our natural gas production more efficient this rule also lessens our reliance on even less friendly fossil fuel exporters including countries to which we all too often send American soldiers. By producing energy in the United States and limiting pollution were making the world safer. Natural gas is not exactly beloved by the environmental community but it can take much of the credit for reducing the use of coal which is much dirtier and more harmful. So while some may say that Obamas environmental rules constituted a War on Coal in reality it was the cheap and plentiful supply of natural gas that put coal out of business. Ultimately well need to transition from natural gas to renewable and zero carbon energies like solar wind and next generation nuclear power if we want to maintain low cost energy and a safe and secure climate. Even with protections in place gas remains a major source of greenhouse gas emissions which cause plenty of problems. As a just published report from the intelligence community details climate change is a major military issue acting as a threat multiplier which creates the conditions and food scarcity for example breed instability and conflict. Extreme weather events made worse by climate change disrupt local communities and weaken the civic institutions that act as a bulwark against terrorists and extremism. The report also notes that the ecological damage done by climate change has human impacts. Communities that could once comfortably live off the land are forced out of the fields and forests and into urban areas where tensions run high and food supplies low. No one is saying that reducing methane leaks from gas drilling will prevent the next major conflict or humanitarian crisis. But with a problem as big as climate change and as multifaceted as national security every step is worthwhile. The better we protect our environment the better we can protect people. Making sure companies capture and sell the gas drilled on public lands ensures that the American taxpayers get the biggest return possible for leasing that land. For anyone growing cynical watching beltway politics Wednesdays victory on the methane rule was a rare and welcome reminder that common sense can still win out over the deep pockets of the oil and gas lobby. The vote was a win for taxpayers a win for the environment a win for national security and a win for democracy.	True	False	False	True	False
The cruelty and the idiocy of Donald Trumps presidency does not chiefly lie in his tweets or even his words. Trump the performer is ridiculous but thats the clown show that keeps many of us either terrified or entertained the real harm is elsewhere away from the blaring headlines. Trump has been most destructive in his willingness to carry out an unabashedly rightwing policy agenda. Most Republicans competing for the nomination in 2016 embraced their partys total capitulation to the fossil fuel industry denying the existence of climate change and promising to shred Environmental Protection Agency EPA regulations. This is a central threat to Americas future a major powerful political party rejecting science itself. This week the Trump administration said it would weaken federal clean water rules epa proposes big changes to federal water protections designed to protect millions of acres of wetlands and thousands of miles of streams from pesticide runoff and other pollutants. This proposal would not just undo Obama era regulations but chip away at protections instituted under the late George HW Bush perhaps the last major Republican to pay even lip service to the environment. The Obama era rule was designed to limit pollution in about 60 of the nations bodies of water protecting sources of drinking water for about a third of the United States. Federal authority was extended to limit pollution in large bodies of waters and smaller bodies that drain into them like streams and wetlands. Rural landowners complained about the government regulating how much pollution from chemical fertilizers and pesticides could seep into water on their property. Real estate developers and owners of golf courses attacked the water regulations too and cheered the news that Trump a fan of both real estate development and golf was delivering on a campaign promise. The protection of our water they figure shouldnt interfere with business. Not only will it soon be easier for pollution to seep into our waterways if a developer finds a wetland is in the way of a money making opportunity the habitat can be paved over altogether. Wetlands adjacent to a major body of water will warrant federal protection. The rest are fair game. Environmentalists are rightfully horrified and fearful of whats to come. Its not just clean drinking water the Trump White House has disregarded. Proposals have circulated to weaken regulations on planet warming emissions from power plants oil rigs and cars. Trump is trying to speed new drilling at the Arctic national wildlife refuge. As climate change accelerates and the planet hurdles ever closer to an existential crisis Trump went to a United Nations conference to tout the benefits katowice climate talks cop24.html of fossil fuels. The current administrator of the EPA Andrew Wheeler used to spend his time lobbying against environmental regulations on behalf of coal magnate Robert E Murray. He was chief counsel to Senator James Inhofe of Oklahoma a proud denier of climate change. Democrats hoping Trump is impeached indicted or somehow toppled before 2020 should understand even such farfetched scenarios wont change the status quo. Trump has surrounded himself with people who care far more about the sanctity of fossil fuel profits than the safety of the American people. They worship at the altar of nihilistic capitalism. Mike Pence wont save you. For 2020 and beyond climate justice will have to become the most animating issue for Democrats not because its a winning argument though it is but because the future of the planet depends on it. This is why Alexandria Ocasio Cortez occupied ocasio cortez sunrise activists nancy pelosi Nancy Pelosis office to force support for a Green New Deal. We are left with no other alternatives. The job of the next president will be to undo the damage Trump has wrought. There will be much handwringing about the shattering of democratic norms but the real work will be in doing whatever we can in the little time we have to avert a true climate catastrophe. 	False	False	False	False	False
As California wildfires claimed their seventh victimDonald Trumpfinally weighed in on the tragedy with one of his most confounding tweets ever blaming California for the blazes because it diverts water to the Pacific Ocean. He also blamed the states bad environmental laws the most protective in the nation and trees. He called for a tree clear to stop fire spreading. He failed to express condolences to the families of the victims thank firefighters or offer comfort to Californians afraid for their lives homes and communities. California wildfires are being magnified made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which arent allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized. It is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire spreading! Donald J. Trump August 5 2018 The tweet came just days after the Trump administration moved to scrap tough vehicle emissions standards initially established by California. The move would clear the way for vehicles to pump an additional 600 million metric tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere by 2030. Thats the equivalent of the entire annual emissions of Canada. Its unclear what the president meant by water diverted into the Pacific. California allocates water among residents agricultural and industrial useand for wetlands and wildlife including water mandated to protect endangered species. But state waters eventually drain into the ocean.As one tweeter responded Water running into the Pacific Ocean is called a river. And firefighters havent complained of a lack of water for battling the blazes. The tweet could be a muddled indication of support for a GOP battle in Washington for a larger water allocation to farmers many of them Republican voters in the drought stricken states central valley. But its unclear how that would help staunch California fires. The scientific consensus is that fires are becoming more common because of climate change which Trump once called a Chinese hoax. Twitter users were stunned the president failed to express concern about people suffering in the fires. But most readers were stumped or derisive. One responded Thanks genius. Problem solved. As a professor who specializes in wildfire management there are a lot of things that are broken about how we prepare for fight wildfires... but its near impossible to overstate how ridiculous this comment is. Eric Kennedy August 5 2018 I had to come look if this was a real tweet. Ummmmm....gee..... You seem to know next to nothing about California. Fires are more often fought with flame retardant. Mowing down a forest to keep the forest from burning is on the crazy side. bree brinkenstein August 6 2018 Thank you for your heartfelt words of concern and support for the families who have lost everything. Primrose Lane August 6 2018 No you scientists have been seeing the fingerprints of all over these fires and it's making them far worse. Why don't you offer your condolences and then maybe read something aside from the McDonalds menu Miroslava Korenha August 6 2018 By tree clear I'm sure you're talking about logging. You're not interested in fire safety. All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer. Audrey August 6 2018 How about a shout out to the 15000 Firefighters who are putting their lives on the line backed with a commitment of support? That is what a real President would do. Big Ass Mustache August 6 2018 JUST IN The President of the United States blames environmental protection laws for California wildfires and believes that useful fresh water is being diverted to the Pacific Ocean. It remains unclear if he also believes that the Earth is flat and the sun revolves around it. Trump Thoughts August 5 2018 So...you want to stop trees from catching on fire...by removing the trees...? But I thought you believed so strongly in the environment. You said so! Andrew August 6 2018 I fixed your tweet boo. Dont worry. I always got your back. My hart goes out to all those infected by the kalifornia wildfires. Im working alongside my addministration to formulate a plan of action to swiftly dayliver aids and support to all the suffered comuntitties. Joe Bereta of The Valleyfolk August 5 2018 So how do you explain the fires in Wyoming Idaho Nevada Arizona Texas and Montana? Those states aren't exactly models of environmental regulation and yet they are burning also. Eric Foltz August 6 2018 What are you going to do with the massive amount of water that doesnt exist in California? Your destructive environmental policy is what causes climate change. Stop rolling back fuel auto standards. Fix the EPA dont dismantle it. Be the solution not the problem. Right! Zardoz commands that Trump should be impeached! August 6 2018	False	False	False	True	False
But the Massachusetts senators campaign is ramping up its focus on the climate crisis ahead of Thursday nights debate in Los Angeles where wildfires forced more than 40000 to flee their homes less than two months ago. Last week Warren unveiled her Blue New Deal the first comprehensive campaign proposal to revitalize coastal economies by fortifying ports spurring new markets for seafood and completely overhauling the offshore energy industry. On Wednesday she published an op ed outlining how shed target fossil fuel companies and reverse President Donald Trumps assault on environmental regulations during her first 100 days in the White House. Then on Thursday the campaign announced an endorsement from Rhiana Gunn Wright the policy researcher who helped write the Green New Deal resolution Warren co sponsored in the Senate in February. There is no dealing with climate change unless we deal with corruption Gunn Wright said in a video set to be released Thursday afternoon. Every time I read a Warren climate plan I am confident that it can take us to a Green New Deal because I see her thinking about How do we use all the levers of government? The endorsement comes as Warren is sliding in national polls which commentators have largely attributed to her apparent wobbling on Medicare for All. The loss of her brief front runner status this fall is widely seen as aiding the surge of Sen. Bernie Sanders I Vt. on her left and South Bend Indiana Mayor Pete Buttigieg on her right. Yet Warrens shift on climate could position her to be more competitive against Sanders who has made his own push on the issue over the past month and picked up major endorsements from youth activists. Warren and Sanders have taken different approaches on climate. Warren has put out more than half a dozen individual plans to spend a combined 3 trillion on solving specific issues like spurring a green manufacturing boom and transitioning the military off fossil fuels. Sanders by contrast has released a 16.3 trillion megaproposal for a Green New Deal that includes everything from creating a public option for electricity to spending nearly 15 billion to encourage worker owned grocery stores. Yet Warren trails Sanders only slightly on climate according to green groups rankings. Greenpeace graded her an A and Sanders an A. On a scale of 200 the Sunrise Movement the group that pushed the Green New Deal into the mainstream scored Warren at 168 and Sanders at 183. 350 Action gave both candidates three thumbs up. Sanders has picked up endorsements from the teen led U.S. Youth Climate Strike and 18 year old activist Jamie Margolin. Hes also backed by Reps. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. and Ilhan Omar D Minn. the star first term Democrats who proposed the first two major pieces of Green New Deal legislation last month. Sanders sponsored the Senate version of Ocasio Cortezs Green New Deal for Public Housing bill last month. But the starkest contrast on the issue is between the two progressive contenders and their moderate rivals former Vice President Joe Biden and Buttigieg. Bidens campaign is stacked with gas industry allies. Buttigiegs climate adviser David Victor has been called a fossil fuel shill for taking research funding from an oil giant and deflecting blame from the industry. Its unclear how much average voters care about a candidates green credentials when the ability to defeat Trump who is widely criticized as a climate change denier is a foremost concern for Democrats and independents who lean left. Climate was the No. 2 concern after health care for Iowa caucusgoers in a Monmouth University survey from April. In California nearly half of Democratic primary voters said climate should be the top issue for the next president according to a Los Angeles Times poll published this month. The trend bears out nationally. About 38 of registered voters favored a Green New Deal proposal that spends upward of 10 trillion slashing climate changing emissions by 2030 according to an August nationwide survey commissioned by the left leaning think tank Data for Progress. That compared to 32.5 who preferred a 1.7 trillion plan to zero out emissions by 2050 more in line with what Biden proposed.	False	False	False	False	False
Washington Democratic Gov. Jay Inslee invoked former British Prime Minister Winston Churchill in announcing a legislation aimed at fighting global warming. There is no other option than victory because without victory there is not survival Inslee said at a press conference Monday. If that sounds apocalyptic then look at the science. Churchill gave similar remarks before British Parliament in May 1940 in the early days of World War II. Inslee and his allies cited the recent National Climate Assessment to back equating future global warming to Nazi Germany sweeping across Europe. Inslee who is a 2020 presidential contender is styling himself as a leader for Democrats agitating for action on global warming. Inslee is considering making global warming a central theme of his campaign should he seek the Democratic nomination in 2020. Inslees legislative pitch comes weeks after Washington voters rejected a ballot initiative to tax carbon dioxide emissions. The Inslee backed measure was defeated in an overwhelmingly Democratic state in November. Now Inslees back with an even more urgent message Adopt policies to tackle global warming or there is not survival. RELATED Congress Debates Whether More Tax Dollars Will Go Towards Add Ons For Luxury Electric Cars Inslees legislative proposal would force utilities to use 100 percent clean energy mandate more energy efficiency in buildings require a clean fuel standard and phase down hydrofluorocarbons HFCs in refrigerators and air conditioners. Those policies would cut Washington state greenhouse gases 25 percent below 1990 levels by 2035 according to Inslee. Washingtonians are ready to see their elected leaders step up to prevent further harm to our forests our air and our communities. These are enormous steps forward in our effort to save our state and our planet Inslee said. Washington already gets most of its electricity from clean energy being the largest state producer of hydroelectricity. The state also has existing laws mandating 15 percent of its electricity come from renewables like wind and solar. However Inslees critics point out that state green policies have raised energy prices including in Seattle where electricity prices have doubled since 2013. Costs have nearly doubled since 2013 Todd Myers environmental director at the Washington Policy Center tweeted Monday. Inslee also neglected to mention the most important aspect of climate policies their projected impact on future global warming. Thats probably because anything Washington state does will have no measurable impact on projected climate change. The governor also used alarming rhetoric when announcing carbon tax legislation earlier this year. We have just 59 days to do our part to save our children from an endless cycle of crop killing droughts one year and rivers spilling their banks the next Inslee tweeted in January. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	True	False
President Trump followed through on his campaign promise to withdraw from the Paris climate accord by formally announcing the U.S. intention to pull out of the agreement saying the move would help American workers and the economy. The Paris climate accord is simply the latest example of Washington entering an agreement that disadvantages the U.S. leaving American workers who I love and tax payers to absorb the cost in terms of lost jobs and lower wages and vastly diminished economic reduction Mr. Trump said. Following Mr. Trump's announcement reaction from both supporters applauding Mr. Trump's move as well as those who disagree with the pull out was swift across the political spectrum. The nations that remain in the Paris Agreement will be the nations that reap the benefits in jobs and industries created. I believe the United States of America should be at the front of the pack. But even in the absence of American leadership even as this Administration joins a small handful of nations that reject the future I'm confident that our states cities and businesses will step up and do even more to lead the way and help protect for future generations the one planet we've got. Removing the United States from the Paris Agreement is a reckless and indefensible action. It undermines America's standing in the world and threatens to damage humanity's ability to solve the climate crisis in time. But make no mistake if President Trump won't lead the American people will. President Trump's decision is profoundly in conflict with what the majority of Americans want from our president but no matter what he does we will ensure that our inevitable transition to a clean energy economy continues. The Paris climate agreement was simply a raw deal for America. Signed by President Obama without Senate ratification it would have driven up the cost of energy hitting middle class and low income Americans the hardest. In order to unleash the power of the American economy our government must encourage production of American energy. I commend President Trump for fulfilling his commitment to the American people and withdrawing from this bad deal. I applaud President Trump and his administration for dealing yet another significant blow to the Obama Administration's assault on domestic energy production and jobs. President Obama made commitments in this deal based off a costly power plan that we knew at the time was on shaky legal ground. By withdrawing from this unattainable mandate President Trump has reiterated his commitment to protecting middle class families across the country and workers throughout coal country from higher energy prices and potential job loss. President Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement is a devastating failure of historic proportions. Future generations will look back on President Trump's decision as one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st century because of the huge damage to our economy our environment and our geopolitical standing. Pulling out of the Paris agreement doesn't put America first it puts America last in recognizing science in being a world leader and protecting our own shore line our economy and our planet. It's now crystal clear President Trump is comfortable both ceding the moral high ground and the economic upper hand to countries like China and endangering the future of our planet. By walking away from this pact President Trump is abandoning America's leadership position in the fight against the climate crisis and is sending a strong message to the rest of the world to create design and manufacture clean energy solutions and create jobs elsewhere. If President Trump wants nations like China and India to take stronger and swifter action on climate then he should do so through the accountability and enforcement provisions in the Paris Agreement not by breaking our word and storming out of the room. Today the President announced that the United States will no longer be bound by an agreement unilaterally entered into by the Obama Administration. This was neither submitted to nor ratified by the U.S. Senate and is not in the best long term economic interest of the United States. President Trump's decision will prove to be the right course of action and one I fully support. Withdrawing the U.S. from the Paris climate agreement isn't just a setback it's irresponsible. This damages our nation's reputation as an international leader and puts future generations at risk to the threat of climate change. Boston will not standby given what's at stake. As Mayor I will continue to work with U.S. Mayors and cities around the world to uphold the tenets of the Paris climate agreement and protect Boston against the very real impacts of climate change. As a Governor I always worked to balance economic growth and environmental protection. We can and we must do both. President Trump acted in America's best interest moving away from a flawed agreement that placed too heavy a burden on American jobs and opening the door to a new agreement that reaches the right balance. America will remain a leader in environmental protection. But we will not jeopardize our economy in order to please other counties that don't come anywhere near our environmental standards. The decision by the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change is a major disappointment for global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote global security. The Secretary General remains confident that cities states and businesses within the United States along with other countries will continue to demonstrate vision and leadership by working for the low carbon resilient economic growth that will create quality jobs and markets for 21st century prosperity. It is crucial that the United States remains a leader on environmental issues.	False	False	False	True	True
PARRISH Ala. AP A stinking trainload of human waste from New York City is stranded in a tiny Alabama town spreading a stench like a giant backed up toilet and the poop train is just the latest example of the South being used as a dumping ground for other states waste. In Parrish Alabama population 982 the sludge hauling train cars have sat idle near the little league ball fields for more than two months Mayor Heather Hall said. The smell is unbearable especially around dusk after the atmosphere has become heated she said. Oh my goodness its just a nightmare here she said. It smells like rotting corpses or carcasses. It smells like death. All kinds of waste have been dumped in Georgia Alabama and other Southern states in recent years including toxic coal ash from power plants around the nation. In South Carolina a plan to store radioactive nuclear waste in a rural area prompted complaints that the state was being turned into a nuclear dump. In Parrish townspeople are considering rescheduling childrens softball games or playing at fields in other communities to escape the stink. Sherleen Pike who lives about a half mile from the railroad track said she sometimes dabs peppermint oil under her nose because the smell is so bad. Would New York City like for us to send all our poop up there forever? she said. They dont want to dump it in their rivers but I think each state should take care of their own waste. Alabamas inexpensive land and permissive zoning laws and a federal ban on dumping New Yorkers excrement in the ocean got the poop train chugging experts say. Nelson Brooke of the environmental group Black Warrior Riverkeeper describes Alabama as kind of an open door rubber stamp permitting place for landfill operators. Its easy for them to zip into a rural or poor community and set up shop and start making a ton of cash he said. The poop trains cargo is bound for the Big Sky landfill about 20 miles 30 kilometers east of Parrish. The landfill has been accepting the New York sewage sludge since early 2017. Previously it was transferred from trains to trucks in nearby West Jefferson but officials there obtained an injunction to keep the sludge out of their town. The sludge smells of dead rotting animals as well as human waste West Jeffersons attorney said in a lawsuit against Big Sky Environmental LLC. It also caused the community to become infested with flies the complaint states. After West Jefferson went to court the train stopped in late January in Parrish which lacks the zoning regulations to block the train cars. Its sat there ever since. Were probably going to look at creating some simple zoning laws for the town of Parrish so we can be sure something like this does not happen again the Parrish mayor said. Hall said shes optimistic the sludge will all be trucked to the landfill soon. New York City has discontinued shipping it to Alabama for the time being said Eric Timbers a city spokesman. Its waste recovered from the sewage treatment process and often called biosolids has been sent out of state partly because the federal government in the late 1980s banned disposal in the Atlantic Ocean. In an earlier trash saga a barge laden with 3186 tons 2890 metric tons of non toxic paper and commercial garbage from Long Island and New York City wandered the ocean for months in 1987 seeking a place to dump it after plans by a private developer to turn it into methane gas in North Carolina fell through. It was turned away by North Carolina Alabama Mississippi Louisiana Texas Florida Mexico Belize and the Bahamas. Brookes Black Warrior Riverkeeper group last year opposed continued permits for the Big Sky landfill. Rural parts of Alabama are prime targets for landfills that accept out of state waste it argued meaning that Alabama was becoming a dumping ground for the rest of the nation. Big Sky officials did not return multiple email and phone messages from The Associated Press seeking comment. Nationally the waste and recycling industry generates more than 93 billion in gross revenue annually said Brandon Wright a spokesman for the National Waste Recycling Association. Wright said there are many reasons waste is sometimes transported out of state. There might not be enough landfill space nearby and the waste has to go somewhere so it gets transported out of state he said. Alabama and other Southern states have a long history accepting waste from around the U.S. A former state attorney general once described a giant west Alabama landfill as Americas Pay Toilet. It was among the nations largest hazardous waste dumps when it opened in 1977. At its peak the landfill took in nearly 800000 tons 72570 metric tons of hazardous waste annually. Plans to dump coal ash in Southern states have been particularly contentious. Each year U.S. coal plants produce about 100 million tons 90 metric tons of coal ash and other waste more than 4 million tons of it wound up in an Alabama landfill following a 2008 spill in Tennessee. In Parrish the mayor hopes the material in the train cars is removed before the weather warms up. Were moving into the summer and the summer in the South is not forgiving when it comes to stuff like this she said.	False	False	False	True	False
The death toll in cyclone hit northern Mozambique has risen to 38 officials say as aid workers struggle to reach the worst affected areas. Cyclone Kenneth struck the southern African nation last week with winds of 220kmh 140mph flattening villages and damaging thousands more homes. The storm lost strength but torrential rain was still battering the area on Monday with more expected. As a result flights have been grounded hindering the aid effort. It is predicted the weather system will dump twice as much rainfall as Cyclone Idai which struck last month leaving more than 900 dead across Mozambique Malawi and Zimbabwe. The flood risk was compounded by Kenneth hitting at the end of the rainy season when river levels were already high the UN Office for the Co ordination of Humanitarian Affairs Ocha noted. Already Pemba the regional capital of Cabo Delgado state has experienced more than 2m 6.5ft of rain and flooding. According to Mozambique's National Institute of Disaster Management INGC 38 people have been killed by Cyclone Kenneth while another 35000 homes have been destroyed or damaged. The privately owned O Pais website reported five people died after part of a rubbish dump collapsed onto homes in Pemba on Sunday evening. It is unclear if these deaths are recorded in the government total. Ocha says humanitarian needs have sky rocketed and the humanitarian response will need to rapidly scale up. Some 200000 people are in danger in Pemba alone Ocha warned. Spokesman Saviano Abreu added that the situation in the northern towns of Macomia and Quissanga was critical while there were also worries for the cut off island of Ibo. But attempts to reach those areas had not been entirely successful. We managed to send one flight with World Food Programme WFP supplies of rice and biscuits and some non food items Mr Abreu told news agency AFP. But unfortunately the weather conditions are changing too fast and threatening the operation. It's raining again and the second flight couldn't go. This satellite image shows the cyclone over northern Mozambique and Tanzania on Friday night. On Sunday a spokesman for UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said he was appealing for additional resources from the international community to fund the response in the immediate medium and longer term. Tropical cyclones in this part of the Indian Ocean are not that rare. However according to the BBC's Environment Correspondent Matt McGrath Cyclone Idai was the seventh such major storm of the Indian Ocean season when it struck back in March. That is more than double the average for the time of year. What's even more unusual however is the fact Idai and Kenneth hit in such quick succession. According to the World Meteorological Organization WMO there is no record of two storms of such intensity striking Mozambique in the same season. It is especially unusual in the context of the trend which has seen tropical cyclones in the region decrease slightly over the past seven decades. But it is far too early and too small a sample size to say whether this frequency is a direct result of climate change. Instead experts point to other elements making the storm's impact worse which they know are related to climate change. There is absolutely no doubt that when there is a tropical cyclone like this then because of climate change the rainfall intensities are higher Dr Friederike Otto from the University of Oxford told the BBC in the aftermath of Cyclone Idai. And also because of sea level rise the resulting flooding is more intense than it would be without human induced climate change. Cabo Delgado province is not as densely populated as the area hit by Cyclone Idai and there is apparently more high ground there. That in addition to warnings by authorities ahead of the storm could significantly stem losses compared with Cyclone Idai. But reports said many thousands of homes had been flattened by the winds and the area has been hit by militant Islamist violence in recent months which could complicate humanitarian operations. Thousands of people had already fled their homes to seek shelter from violence in camps for displaced people.	False	False	False	True	False
The proposal also says companies that emit greenhouse gases should be protected from lawsuits over their contribution to climate change. Michael B. Gerrard the director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia Law School and an expert on climate litigation said there had been four suits brought against energy companies over climate change including one brought by the eroding Arctic coastal town of Kivalina Alaska. None of those has gotten very far Mr. Gerrard said but there continues to be talk of more. Mr. Gerrard added If a sufficiently high carbon tax were imposed it could accomplish a lot more for fighting climate change than liability suits. The Climate Leadership Councils plan sets an initial tax of 40 per ton of carbon dioxide produced which would add 36 cents to the cost of each gallon of gasoline sold. The group estimates the tax would raise more than 200 billion a year and the rate would rise over time dampening demand for fossil fuels. The average family of four would receive approximately 2000 in the first year as a carbon dividend the group says. A tax and dividend plan would cut American carbon pollution even as the Trump administration withdraws from the Paris climate accord the group says. Exxon has said for years that it supports a carbon tax at least in the abstract but the company had never formally endorsed a proposal. In 2009 the companys chief executive Rex W. Tillerson who is now secretary of state called carbon taxes a more direct a more transparent and a more effective approach than a cap and trade proposal Congress was considering at the time. In a statement the current chief executive of Exxon Mobil Darren W. Woods said the company was encouraged by the climate groups proposal which aligns closely with our longstanding principles. A company spokesman said the liability component of the plan was not part of the companys decision to endorse it. Some environmental groups did not accept that explanation on Tuesday. Exxon is signing on to this carbon tax proposal because they know its dead on arrival in Congress said Jamie Henn a co founder of 350.org. He added that protection from liability would be important to Exxon which is under investigation for its past statements and actions on climate change. Along with the oil companies the plans corporate backers include Johnson Johnson Unilever PepsiCo and Procter Gamble. Ted Halstead the chief executive of the Climate Leadership Council said the group did not accept corporate contributions. Some environmental organizations including the Nature Conservancy and the World Resources Institute are endorsing the plan. Individual supporters include the theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking Steven Chu a secretary of energy under President Barack Obama Michael R. Bloomberg the former New York mayor and the Indian industrialist Ratan Tata. The plans Republican authors include James A. Baker III and George P. Shultz both former secretaries of state and Henry M. Paulson Jr. a former secretary of the Treasury. But Mr. Halstead said the council had moved a little more to the center adding new leaders like Lawrence H. Summers a secretary of the Treasury under President Bill Clinton and Laurene Powell Jobs a philanthropist and the widow of the Apple founder Steve Jobs. For this to pass it will have to pass on a bipartisan basis Mr. Halstead said. Mr. Summers said the chances that Congress would pass a carbon tax in the near future were low. But he said there is a reasonable shot that there will be an opening that will be taken in the next several years especially because the dividends could benefit low income Americans. Its hard to argue against a fuel tax that Exxons in favor of he said.	True	False	False	True	True
President Trump Donald John TrumpJoe Kennedy says he's considering Senate run Biden tells supporters after flub 'I'm not going nuts' Seoul's relations with Pyongyang and Tokyo need a jolt of reality MORE on Monday touted his environmentalist credentials hours after skipping a Group of Seven G 7 summit meeting focused on climate oceans and biodiversity. At a closing press conference before departing the summit Trump was asked whether he still harbors skepticism about climate change. He did not directly answersaying heis an environmentalist but that he is unwilling to sacrifice the country's economic success to protect the environment. Im an environmentalist. A lot of people dont understand that Trump said citing his experience filing environmental impact statements for real estate developments. I think I know more about the environment than most people he added. I want clean air. I want clean water. I want a wealthy country. I want a spectacular country with jobs with pensions with so many things. And thats what were getting. At the same time its very important to me... we have to maintain this incredible place that weve all built Trump continued. The U.S. has become a much richer country. And thats a good thing not a bad thing. Because that wealth allows us to take care of people. Earlier Monday the president skipped a G 7 session focused on climate and sent another administration official in his place. The heads of government of the other six nations that comprise the G 7 were there. During the climate meeting leaders approved a 20 million aid package to help Brazil and other South American countries address fires engulfing the Amazon rainforest French President Emmanuel Macron Emmanuel Jean Michel MacronTrump says he's 'an environmentalist' after skipping G 7 climate meeting Trump says he'd meet with Iranians under 'right' circumstances Macron US France reached 'very good agreement' on digital tax MORE said. Trump has in the past characterized climate change as a hoax mocked the idea of global warming by citing winter storms and cast doubt on government reports warning about how the changing environment might adversely affect the economy. His administration has rolled backa number of environmental protections enacted by the Obama administration and Trump announced shortly after taking office that he would withdraw from the Paris climate agreement that seeks to combat global emissions. The president on Monday cited the expansion of energy exports under his administration and the opening of drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as ways he has made the country more prosperous. Im not going to lose that wealth he said. I'm not going to lose that on dreams. On windmills.	True	True	False	True	True
Conservation groups are protesting efforts to build a small offshore wind farm off the coast of Lake Erie arguing that the project poses a grave risk to the local bird population. A local energy company wants to construct a six turbine 20.7 megawatt offshore wind development eight miles from Cleveland in Lake Erie. If completed it would be the first freshwater offshore wind farm on the continent. Supporters point outthe project would create more than 500 jobs and pump millions into the local economy over the turbines 25 year lifespan. Lake Erie Energy Development Corporation the company behind the project also argues it would be a step forward for environmentally friendly energy production. However not every ecologically minded group is on board with Icebreaker the name of the project. The Black Swamp Bird Observatory and the American Bird Conservancy two different bird conservation groups are opposed to the proposal claiming the turbines would harm the local bird population and that major errors were made during an environmental assessment. RELATEDDisposal Of Wind Turbines Proving To Be A Major Environmental Concern We reject the environmental assessments claim that this wind energy facility would have little to no impact' on birds Kimberly Kaufman Black Swamp Bird Observatorys executive director said in a statement. The six turbine Icebreaker project poses a larger threat to wildlife than is now indicated in the documents Kaufman continued. But the planned expansion of offshore wind energy to over 1000 turbines will have even more major impacts to birds that breed and migrate across Lake Erie and that must be addressed. The bird conservancy groups point out that vast numbers of migratory birds and bats have been recorded just a few miles from the Great Lakes shorelines with many flying at the same level of the rotor swept area of windmills. They submitted their concerns to theU.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of Energy. A second public hearing about Icebreaker will take place Thursday atCleveland City Council. This is far from the first time bird advocates have lamented over wind turbines. Wind farms across the globe kill thousands of birds a year that inadvertently fly into their turbines. Offshore wind farms while also posing a threat to birds can also harm the local aquatic ecosystem. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	True	True
The attorneys representing young people who are suing the federal government in a major climate change lawsuit recently took the unusual step of filing an injunction to stop all new leases for fossil fuel production. If the injunction is granted it would lead to a nationwide moratorium on new fossil fuel permitting and leasing on federal lands and waters until the lawsuit is resolved. No small matter. However existing mining and drilling projects would still proceed. The Juliana v. United States lawsuit filed by 21 young plaintiffs is currently going through pre trial appeals at the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The suit alleges that not only did the federal government fail to act to limit climate change it profited off of selling coal oil and gas rights. The government encouraged mining and drilling while knowing full well the hazards caused by burning these fuels namely climate change. In so doing the government has deprived the plaintiffs the youngest is 11 years old the right to a safe and stable climate system. The lawsuit was first filed in 2015 but has proceeded in starts and stops. At one point the Supreme Court stepped in to pause the case days before the trial before allowing it to go ahead. An appeals court has now stepped in to consider the governments motion to dismiss the case. Then on February 7 the plaintiffs filed their injunction against new fossil fuel extraction on government territory. Philip Gregory one of the lead attorneys representing the children filing suit explained that the injunction request is meant to address the urgency of limiting climate change by reducing emissions from fossil fuels immediately. With the case currently tied up in appeals the plaintiffs wanted to make sure the current state of affairs with respect to climate change doesnt get worse as the wheels of justice slowly turn. We would have preferred to go to trial submit our extensive evidence and have the judge require the defendants to come up with a plan a national climate recovery plan for how theyre going to go about doing this Gregory said. As Gregory and the other attorneys for the children wrote in their injunction request This injunction is urgently needed because despite long standing knowledge of the resulting destruction to our Nation and the profound harm to these young Plaintiffs Defendants ongoing development of the fossil fuel based energy system is actively harming Plaintiffs and jeopardizing Plaintiffs ability to obtain the full remedy in their case. Numerous experts including retired Navy Vice Admiral Lee Gunn economist Joseph Stiglitz and climate scientist Eric Rignot have also filed amicus briefs supporting the injunction against new federal fossil fuel development. In response the federal government argued this week that the injunction maneuver is a ploy to bypass proper legal proceedings. Indeed Plaintiffs by their present motion are essentially making a bid in this Court for a substitute mini trial or trial lite which is premature until the pure issues of law now being briefed in this interlocutory appeal are appropriately resolved as a threshold matter wrote attorneys for the US Department of Justice. They described the injunction request as an ambitious attempt to throttle important government functions superintending broad swaths of the national economy. The government also noted that the Juliana lawsuit was filed more than three years ago but the plaintiffs hadnt asked to block fossil fuel leasing until now which undermines the plaintiffs argument that without immediate action they would suffer irreparable harm. However Gregory noted that the government didnt object to any of the evidence presented in the plaintiffs injunction request nor did it present any new evidence for its request to deny the request. Because there is no contrary evidence then we are very optimistic that this injunction will go through Gregory said. The Juliana v. United States is just one of more than a dozen climate change lawsuits underway in the US right now. Besides suing the government several counties and cities are seeking damages from coal oil and gas companies for contributing to climate change which in turn is posing a public nuisance to these jurisdictions. Legal experts say that these lawsuits are long shots and theyre testing the limits of what existing jurisprudence covers. But if they succeed they could set critical precedents lead to billion dollar payouts and radically reshape the effort to limit global warming.	True	False	False	True	True
As soon as Hurricanes Harvey and Irma made landfall in the U.S. scientists politicians and journalists began to discuss the role of climate change in natural disasters. Although a clear scientific consensus has emerged over the past decade that climate change influences hurricanes in the long run its effect upon any individual storm is unclear. Anyone trying to score political points after a natural disaster should take a deep breath and review the science first. As a meteorologist with access to the best weather forecast model data available I watched each hurricanes landfall with particular interest. Harvey and Irma broke the record 12 year major hurricane landfall drought on the U.S. coastline. Since Wilma in October 2005 31 major hurricanes had swirled in the North Atlantic but all failed to reach the U.S. with a Category 3 or higher intensity. Even as we worked to divine exactly where the hurricanes would land a media narrative began to form linking the devastating storms to climate change. Some found it ironic that states represented by climate deniers were being pummeled by hurricanes. Alarmists reveled in the irony that Houston home to petrochemical plants was flooded by Harvey while others gleefully reported that President Trumps Mar a Lago might be inundated by Irma. How to put these two hurricanes into proper context? An informative website from the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration synthesizes reams of research literature on the links between hurricanes and global warming. Over the next century climate models generally indicate fewer but stronger stormsbetween 2 and 11 greater average storm intensitywith substantially increased rain rates. Against the background of slow sea level rise explosive coastal population growth will overwhelmingly exacerbate any hurricanes damages. In the aggregate the global warming signal may just now be emerging out of our noisy observational records and we may not know certainly for several decades. These conclusions are hardly controversial in the climate science community. My own research cited in a recent Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report found that during the past half century tropical storms and hurricanes have not shown an upward trend in frequency or accumulated energy. Instead they remain naturally variable from year to year. The global prevalence of the most intense storms Category 4 and 5 has not shown a significant upward trend either. Historical observations of extreme cyclones in the 1980s especially in the Southern Hemisphere are in sore need of reanalysis. By focusing on whether climate change caused a hurricane journalists fail to appreciate the complexity of extreme weather events. While most details are still hazy with the best climate modeling tools the bigger issue than global warming is that more people are choosing to live in coastal areas where hurricanes certainly will be most destructive. The nascent field of attribution science attempts to explain how climate change may affect characteristics of a given hurricane using models in what if mode. Such research requires a faithful reproduction of events and predictions of the future constrained by subjective choices within computer models. This research also takes timewhich means other scientists must examine the evidence with patience and judiciousness not usually seen on Twitter or cable news. Still the scientific community already knows plenty about hurricanes and climate changeknowledge it has accumulated over two decades through peer reviewed research academic conferences and voluminous national and international assessments. Yet climate scientists all too often speculate during interviews rather than refer to IPCC reports or their cousins from the U.S. National Climate Assessment. Some climate scientists have peddled tenuous theories with no contemporaneous research evidence. Advocacy groups package these talking points for easy consumption by journalists who eagerly repeat them. The historical record books contain dozens of devastating hurricane landfalls over the past century any of which if repeated would be catastrophic regardless of additional climate change effects. To prepare for the next hurricane the U.S. needs the best weather forecasts evacuation plans and leadership. These plans should be built on sound science not speculation overselling or exaggeration. Hurricane science in this political climate already has enough spin. Mr. Maue a research meteorologist is an adjunct scholar at the Cato Institute.	True	False	False	True	True
President Donald Trump blamed bad environmental laws for making wildfires spreading across California much worse in a Sunday tweet. Trump wrote these laws arent allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized which is instead being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire spreading! Persistent heat dry condition and winds have fueled several major wildfires across California the biggest of which is the Carr Fire thats scorched more than 140000 acres and killed seven people. RELATED NYT Claims Global Greening From CO2 Is Terrible Gets Owned State officials said the Carr Fire was sparked in late July by a flat tire on a trailer scraping against the asphalt on a road near Redding California. California Gov. Jerry Brown a Democrat blamed man made global warming for the states rash of intense fires in the last couple of years however wildfire experts and conservatives tend to blame poor land management policies coupled with the expansion of human development into fire prone areas. Thats likely what Trump is referring to when he tweeted must also tree clear to stop fire spreading! Thinning of trees and removing of dead vegetation and brush can help mitigate wildfires. Whats not a clear link to wildfires however is Trumps referral to California water supplies being diverted into the ocean. Hes likely referring to the diverting of water from the Sacramento San Joaquin River Delta into the ocean to protect the delta smelt an endangered fish. Republicans and farmers have complained about management of the smelt population for years because precious water was being pumped out to sea instead of going towards other uses including agriculture. Those concerns were magnified during the recent multi year drought and recent population surveys show fresh water diversion has not been enough to keep smelt populations from declining. However its unclear how diverting water into the Pacific Ocean affects wildfires in California. Trump also lambasted policies forcing river water to be diverted during the 2016 campaign. Is there a drought? Trump said at a rally in Fresno that year. No we have plenty of water adding we shove it out to sea. Trump approved disaster declarations for the Carr Fire making it easier for state and federal officials to share resources and coordinate a response.	True	True	False	False	False
The permafrost that covers great swaths of Siberia northern Canada Alaska and Greenland is warming twice as fast as other parts of the planet and could be gone by midcentury causing more warming and releasing gigatonnes of carbon dioxide and methane. That has all kind of consequences both locally for this region for the animals and the people who live here as well as globally Max Holmes a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska told the New York Times. As global temperatures rise scientists are trying to determine the likely speed and scale of the melting of Alaskas permafrost. In geology permafrost is a thick subsurface layer of soil that remains frozen throughout the year. Located in high latitudes it covers about 24 percent of the land surface in the northern hemisphere and can be up to 1km thick. Some of the permafrost dates back to the last Ice Age. Most of this area is found in Siberia northern Canada Alaska and Greenland. Permafrost is thought to contain about twice as much carbon dioxide and methane as is currently in the atmosphere. When permafrost melts microbes convert carbon to carbon dioxide causing even more warming. Scientists estimate the thawing could contribute as much as 1.7F 1C to global warming over the next several centuries regardless of what nations do to reduce emissions from burning fossil fuels and other activities. Holmes led a team of scientists in July to take permafrost cores sediment and water samples from the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge to better understand how thawing permafrost affects the landscape and how much and what mix of greenhouse gases are released. In order to know how much is lost you have to know how much is there Sue Natali a Woods Hole scientist and permafrost expert told the New York Times. Vladimir Romanovsky a permafrost researcher with the University of Alaska Fairbanks said the temperatures at a depth of 65ft have risen to 5.5F 3C over decades. Minus 3 is not that far from zero Dr. Romanovsky told the New York Times. He estimates that if emissions and warming continue at the same rate near surface temperatures will rise above freezing around the middle of the century. In 2013 the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC projected that temperature increases in Alaska and northern Russia could reduce permafrost by between 37 and 87 percent by the end of this century. If that occurs it could potentially leak 1700 gigatonnes of carbon and methane twice what is already in the atmosphere. A global temperature rise of 2.7F 1.5C above current levels would be enough to start the thawing of the permafrost in Siberia according to scientists from the earth sciences depart at Oxford University in a report published in Science Express in 2016.	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON The Republican response to an alarming new United Nations report on looming catastrophes caused by global warming suggests that little if anything will be done by the U.S. in the near future to address the threat of rising oceans worsening droughts and raging wildfires. They might as well be calling on me to sprout wings and fly to Canada for the summer Sen. Roger Wicker R Miss. a climate change skeptic said of the actions urged by the report. Issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change the report found that the world is rapidly running out of time to scale back carbon emissions to keep planetary warming within 1.5 degrees Celsius 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit above pre industrial levels. If the flow of greenhouse gases continues to stream into the atmosphere at the current rate the IPCC determined the global mean temperature will likely rise to the 1.5 degree mark sometime between 2030 and 2052. Such a rise in global mean temperatures within that time frame would mean calamitous flooding of small islands and major coastal metropolises like New York City the report said. Warming beyond that level to 2 degrees and over would significantly exacerbate such disasters. The reports authors projected that staying at or below 1.5 degrees Celsius will require slashing the worlds greenhouse gas emissions by 45 percent from 2010 levels by 2030 and reaching net zero carbon emissions by 2050 targets that many GOP lawmakers brushed off as infeasible. Theres not enough money in the world to pay for that Kennedy said. Thats the problem with the U.N. that they come up with these policy ideas that are just La La Land. How is that new? Theyve said the same thing before Sen. Marco Rubio R Fla. said adding that his responsibility was to balance those interests raised in that report with his states broader economic and security interests. It hasnt been on my finance agenda or banking agenda Scott said referring to the Senate committees he serves on and the issues on which he focuses his attention. The IPCC recommended several steps needed to reverse carbon dioxide emissions including replacing the use of fossil fuels with renewable energy such as wind and solar as well as growing more forests which naturally recycles CO2. It also said that employing new technologies to suck carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere will be necessary to achieve the emissions target. We should be doing everything we can said Natalie Mahowald a climate scientist at Cornell University and lead author of the reports first chapter. Thats the main thing about getting to the emmissions goal is just how aggressively we have to act in every different sector of our society. Only one GOP senator approached by HuffPost signaled an openness to delving into the report Sen. Bob Corker R Tenn.. As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee he said he was looking at the possibility of holding a hearing on the matter. The Senate GOP majority likely to remain in effect after Novembers elections is dominated by lawmakers skeptical of human caused climate change such as Jim Inhofe R Okla.. He oncethrew a snowball on the Senate floor in an attempt to prove that global warming is nothing more than a hoax. Coming from a top oil producing stateInhofe has long railed against the IPCC as a biased left wing organization. On Wednesday he claimed that the panel recognized by others as the worlds leading authority on climate change had been totally discredited and dismissed its latest findings.	True	False	False	True	True
Scientists have uncovered the largest volcanic region on Earth two kilometres below the surface of the vast ice sheet that covers west Antarctica. The project by Edinburgh University researchers has revealed almost 100 volcanoes with the highest as tall as the Eiger which stands at almost 4000 metres in Switzerland. Geologists say this huge region is likely to dwarf that of east Africas volcanic ridge currently rated the densest concentration of volcanoes in the world. And the activity of this range could have worrying consequences they have warned. If one of these volcanoes were to erupt it could further destabilise west Antarcticas ice sheets said glacier expert Robert Bingham one of the papers authors. Anything that causes the melting of ice which an eruption certainly would is likely to speed up the flow of ice into the sea. The big question is how active are these volcanoes? That is something we need to determine as quickly as possible. The Edinburgh volcano survey reported in the Geological Societys special publications series involved studying the underside of the west Antarctica ice sheet for hidden peaks of basalt rock similar to those produced by the regions other volcanoes. Their tips actually lie above the ice and have been spotted by polar explorers over the past century. But how many lie below the ice? This question was originally asked by the teams youngest member Max Van Wyk de Vries an undergraduate at the universitys school of geosciences and a self confessed volcano fanatic. He set up the project with the help of Bingham. Their study involved analysing measurements made by previous surveys which involved the use of ice penetrating radar carried either by planes or land vehicles to survey strips of the west Antarctic ice. The results were then compared with satellite and database records and geological information from other aerial surveys. Essentially we were looking for evidence of volcanic cones sticking up into the ice Bingham said. After the team had collated the results it reported a staggering 91 previously unknown volcanoes adding to the 47 others that had been discovered over the previous century of exploring the region. These newly discovered volcanoes range in height from 100 to 3850 metres. All are covered in ice which sometimes lies in layers that are more than 4km thick in the region. These active peaks are concentrated in a region known as the west Antarctic rift system which stretches 3500km from Antarcticas Ross ice shelf to the Antarctic peninsula. We were amazed Bingham said. We had not expected to find anything like that number. We have almost trebled the number of volcanoes known to exist in west Antarctica. We also suspect there are even more on the bed of the sea that lies under the Ross ice shelf so that I think it is very likely this region will turn out to be the densest region of volcanoes in the world greater even than east Africa where mounts Nyiragongo Kilimanjaro Longonot and all the other active volcanoes are concentrated. The discovery is particularly important because the activity of these volcanoes could have crucial implications for the rest of the planet. If one erupts it could further destabilise some of the regions ice sheets which have already been affected by global warming. Meltwater outflows into the Antarctic ocean could trigger sea level rises. We just dont know about how active these volcanoes have been in the past Bingham said. However he pointed to one alarming trend The most volcanism that is going in the world at present is in regions that have only recently lost their glacier covering after the end of the last ice age. These places include Iceland and Alaska. Theory suggests that this is occurring because without ice sheets on top of them there is a release of pressure on the regions volcanoes and they become more active. And this could happen in west Antarctica where significant warming in the region caused by climate change has begun to affect its ice sheets. If they are reduced significantly this could release pressure on the volcanoes that lie below and lead to eruptions that could further destabilise the ice sheets and enhance sea level rises that are already affecting our oceans. It is something we will have to watch closely Bingham said.	True	False	False	True	True
The progressive Democratic newcomer from New York joined more than 100 environmental youth activists on Tuesday for a sit in inside House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosis Capitol Hill office to encourage a deal to transition to a 100 percent renewable energy based economy to fight climate change. The demonstration took place the same day that new members of Congress including Ocasio Cortez arrived for orientation. They asked me to join them and I did Ocasio Cortez tweeted of her involvement with members of the Sunrise Movement and Justice Democrats who visited several elected officials offices in the building. We can embrace the energy of activism to move our partys goals forward. Pelosis office in a statement shared by Ocasio Cortez on Twitter expressed support for the activists and said that she has recommended reinstating the Select Committee on Climate Change a special climate change committee that was dissolved by Republicans in 2011. House Democrats ran on and won on our bold campaign for a 1 trillion investment in our infrastructure that will make our communities more resilient to the climate crisis while creating 16 million new good paying jobs across the country Pelosis statement read. We welcome the presence of these activists and we strongly urge the Capitol Police to allow them to continue to organize and participate in our democracy. California is burning. Fossil fuel billionaires have a grip on America's democracy. We're running out of time to act. But we're going to win. We'll pass a win the solutions we need. We'll win because we have a movement behind us. And together we're unstoppable. pic.twitter.commw6dKSxPVj 350 dot org November 13 2018 Members of the Sunrise Movement responding to Pelosis support in their ownstatement on Twitter said they welcomed her endorsement but added that words arent enough. The group urged her to step aside if she is unable to mandate such a plan. Ocasio Cortez added that she supports Pelosi reinstating the Select Committee and highlighted the activists requests that the committee draft a Green New Deal calling for 100 percent renewable energy and a commitment from the committees appointed members that they wont accept funding from the fossil fuel industry.	False	True	False	True	False
California continues to pass the most ambitious laws in the world to expand clean energy and combat climate change. This summer in the midst of unprecedented chaos and dysfunction in Washington California lawmakers stepped up with a bipartisan solution to one of the most pressing challenges facing our state this nation and the world. Cap and trade is an important tool in Californias climate policy portfolio. It sends a price signal to industries to reduce their carbon pollution while generating billions of dollars in revenue for investments in clean transportation and direct pollution reduction. However its hardly the only weapon in our climate arsenal and California simply cannot meet our world leading greenhouse gas reduction goals with cap and trade alone. In fact the challenge before us is a case study in market failures to suggest that market based policies on their own will solve this existential challenge is nave at best. Thats why Californias comprehensive suite of climate policies including our mandates to generate clean energy improve energy efficiency and reduce vehicle tailpipe emissions strikes a necessary balance between market based and direct regulations. As California edges out the United Kingdom to become the fifth largest economy in the world with the state unemployment rate at historic lows sound budgeting and a robust social safety net weve proven that strong climate and clean air policies can go hand in hand with economic growth. Thanks to policies mandating clean energy development Californias electric grid is one of the least carbon intensive in the world. Weve turned clean energy into a pillar of our economy that now employs over half a million Californians ten times the number of Americans employed in the coal industry. Clean renewable energy is also now cheaper than fossil fuels on a straight dollar for dollar basis in many parts of America. Thats why red states like Texas Oklahoma and Iowa are quietly spending more on zero carbon wind energy than ever before. Clean energy isnt just good for the planet its good for consumers monthly utility bills and for the economy. Setting a target of 100 percent clean renewable energy as my Senate Bill 100 will do if signed into law means that California will continue to be the worlds clean energy superpower. Other policies promoting energy and fuel efficiency are also major tools driving both innovation and pollution reductions. Our decades long commitment to energy efficiency which began with Jerry Browns first stint as Governor has not only kept our states electricity consumption flat despite a steadily rising population it has kept Californians energy spending among the lowest in the nation. These programs create local jobs incentivize massive private sector investment and are a big reason why California remains Americas capital of innovation. Most importantly policies that directly reduce pollution are our most effective tools to improve public health and quality of life in the most disproportionately impacted communities. California is home to six of the ten most polluted cities in America for ozone and particle pollution according to the American Lung Association. The families sick from breathing dirty air surely would not consider Californias air quality regulations superfluous. We need all of these tools to be able to reduce pollution drive technological innovation create jobs and expand economic growth all while keeping costs stable for consumers and businesses. Taken together they provide a comprehensive platform for clean energy and climate policy that can serve as a golden standard and a beacon of hope for the rest of the planet until common sense returns to the White House.	False	False	False	True	True
Bill Nye took on Republican Rep. Thomas Massey who claims to be an electrical engineer but he doesnt understand climate change. And the guy that I saw the other day if I may take a moment was congressman Thomas Massey from Kentucky and he is an electrical engineer. He says on his website he claims to be an inventor and he acted as though he cannot grasp this he focused on the idea that 800000 years ago there was a higher level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere than there is today and how do we know that? By looking at the ice cores or the ancient atmospheres in the ancient ice. I presume you dont watch MSNBCA member of his staff might. Thats what Im hoping for. Im hoping for. So congressman or the congressmans staff heres the hockey stick graph that you guys love to go off thats been debunked. No it hasnt been debunked. Its a fact. If youre really an electrical engineer heres the problem. The rate of global warming if it was even detectable at this scale with about .1 degrees celsius every thousand or maybe even every 10000 years. Now its that .1 degree Celsius every decade. So congressman its like this in calculus terms. The rate of temperature getting bigger is very high. This would be dT dt where capital T is temperature and and the lower case is time or congressmans staff if out there thats the problem. This looks like an exaggerated hockey stick because it is. Its the speed. The Trump administration recently called a science a Democrat thing so no one should expect the Republican Party to get won over into believing facts again but Bill Nye laid it all out nice and easy. The temperature is rising quickly. It is a race against time and the longer that Republicans deny and delay the worse it will be for our planet our people and our future. For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	False	False	False	False	True
Virginia Del. Lashrecse Aird D If elected Virginia Del. Lashrecse Aird D would be the states first female speaker of the House and the first Black person to lead the legislative body. You have in my opinion a Commonwealth that wants to see that. You have members who have been in our caucus and who will be coming into our caucus that want to see that happen she added. I strongly believe that the other individuals in this race their personal politics has never been about bold progressive leadership so why are they going to start now because they receive a new title? Now the monopolies critics fear that the companies which extract fossil fuels and generate energy in addition to transmitting it will seek to water down any efforts to combat climate change. To the extent that Democrats pass legislation mandating more renewable energy use antitrust crusaders inside and outside the legislature fear that Dominion and Appalachian will try to monopolize production of those new energy sources as well. Having gender equality public safety LGBTQ equality gun safety those are the things we should be able to accomplish regardless of whos in charge Only taking care of those things is such a cheap cop out for what a party should stand for. I want to go beyond those issues said Del. Mark Keam a Fairfax County Democrat who would not say how he plans to vote in the leadership race. How do you change infrastructure so we run on clean energy rather than fossil fuels? We need to get there by breaking down monopolies and increasing competition. Aird is pitching her Democratic colleagues on not only the vision of a more ambitious legislative agenda but also on granting rank and file House Democrats more opportunities to shape caucus priorities. On Friday she released a 14 page report 60 Day Plan for a Stronger Commonwealth outlining her proposals which include the creation of new leadership posts and a new committee dedicated to energy and natural resources. That committee Aird acknowledged would enable the House to take a proactive role in oversight of the states utility monopolies. I feel like I have one foot in the old world and one foot in the new world to lead some of the new folks that came in in 2017 and will be coming in this year she said. I will take a balanced approach to governing.	False	False	False	True	True
China is helping Pakistan build up its energy sector including a 3.5 billion joint venture to extract 1.3 gigawatts worth of coal in the Thar desert. Pakistan plans to use Thar brown coal to bring electricity to the millions of people living in energy poverty or suffering through daily blackouts. The country could get 24 percent of its electricity from coal by 2020 with the help of China. Its one of many coal projects China is backing abroad while it cuts coal mining and power generation at home to fight pollution. China also promised to peak greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 as part of the Paris climate agreement. Chinas energy ministry canceled more than 100 coal fired power plants that were being planned or being built in January. The country reaffirmed its commitment to its Paris commitments after U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order rolling back global warming regulations in late March. As a responsible developing country Chinas plan determination and policy to tackle climate change is resolute Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang told the Associated Press. Chinas coal use fell nearly 5 percent last year but the country still gets 62 percent of its electricity from coal fired power plants. The countryscut in domestic coal use comes as they fund coal projects abroad including the Engro mine in the Thar desert. Another Chinese joint venture plans to build another coal project near the Engro mine in June. Another block of coal will begin production for electricity generation by 2019 reports the Salt Law Tribune. China has also backed coal fired power plants in Southeast Asian countries including Vietnam. China is involved in financing or building at least 79 coal fired power projects around the world. The total generating capacity of those projects is 52 gigawatts. Why the push abroad? It provides Chinese firms and investors with opportunities to make money off coal projects at a time when thats less politically popular in China. Coal workers also travel to these projects keeping them from losing their jobs. The Engro mine for example has 350 Chinese workers and the return on equity for Chinese investors is about 30 percent according to the Salt Lake Tribune. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	False	False	False	False	True
ROME Reuters Pope Francis implicitly criticized the United States on Monday for pulling out of the Paris agreement on climate change praising it as a means to control the devastating effects of global warming. The United States is the only country out of 195 signatories to have withdrawn from the accord which aims to cut emissions blamed for the rise in temperatures. U.S. President Donald Trump announced the decision in June shortly after visiting the pope a strong supporter of the deal. At the time a Vatican official said the move was a slap in the face for the pope and the Vatican. We see consequences of climate change every day the pope said in an address to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation FAO at its headquarters in Rome. Thanks to scientific knowledge we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods such as the Paris Accord which sadly some have abandoned he said. Under the deal United States had committed to reducing its own emissions by 26 to 28 percent compared with 2005 levels by 2025. Many world leaders have criticized Trump for deciding to pull out. In his Spanish language address to the U.N. agency Francis denounced negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet and the greed for profit. Agriculture ministers and diplomats from the Group of Seven G7 world power nations attended the gathering which marked FAOs World Food Day. We cant be satisfied by saying someone else will do it' the pope said. Ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the prerequisites for dealing with world food security Francis also said. The yoke of poverty caused by the often tragic movement of migrants can be removed by prevention consisting of development projects that create jobs and offer the capacity to respond to climactic and environmental changes he said.	False	True	False	True	False
PORTO VELHO Brazil Lingering smoke in the Amazon caused concern Tuesday among Brazilians who say that respiratory problems particularly among children and the elderly have increased as fires in the region rage. The kids are affected the most. Theyre coughing a lot said Elane Diaz a nurse in the Rondonia state capital of Porto Velho as she waited for a doctors appointment at the citys 9 of July hospital with her 5 year old son Eduardo. They have problems breathing. Im concerned because it affects their health. The number of people treated for respiratory issues increased sharply in recent days at the local Cosme e Damia Childrens hospital. This period has been very tough. The dry weather and the smoke causes many problems on children such as pneumonia coughing and secretion Daniel Pires a pediatrician and the hospitals adjunct director told the Folha de S. Paulo newspaper. From Aug. 1 to Aug. 10 the median number of cases was about 120 to 130 children with respiratory problems. From Aug. 11 to Aug. 20 it went up to 280 cases. Amazon fires What would the Earth be like without the Amazon rainforest? Growing fears over the health impacts are emerging as the number of fires in Brazil surges with more than 77000 documented by the countrys National Space Research Institute in the last year. About half of the fires occurred in the Amazon region with most in the past month. But as breathing related ailments appear to be on the rise attention to the issue has largely been overshadowed by growingacrimony between Brazil and European countries seeking to help fight Amazon fires and protect a region seen as vital to the health of the planet. At a summit in France this week G 7 nations pledged to help fight the flames and protect the rainforest by offering 20 million in addition to a separate 12 million from Britain and 11 million from Canada. But Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro a far right climate skeptic who took office this year with a promise to boost development in Latin Americas biggest economy questioned whether offers of international aid mask a plot to exploit the Amazons resources and weaken Brazilian growth. On Tuesday he said that his French counterpart President Emmanuel Macron had called him a liar and would have to apologize before Brazil considers accepting rainforest aid. Macron has to retract those comments and then we can speak Bolsonaro said. In a video message Brazilian novelist Paulo Coelho offered an apology to France for what he called Bolsonaros hysteria saying the Brazilian government had resorted to insults to dodge responsibility for the Amazon fires. Meanwhile within Brazil a number of people said they supported Bolsonaro despite local and international criticism of his handling of the crisis exposing a divide that has split the country. Grace Quale a hospital laboratory technician who attended a service at an evangelical church on Sunday said that critics want to overthrow our president and that she didnt see a link between Bolsonaros environmental policies and the number of people getting treatment for respiratory problems. Mona Lisa Pereira an agronomist also said criticism of Brazils government was skewed. Germany had already been helping through NGOs and they couldnt prevent this Pereira said. It seems like this is the fire of a lifetime. But its not. We have fires every year. Others said in an open letter that the governments discourse and measures are leading to a collapse in federal environmental management and stimulate environmental crimes inside and outside the Amazon. More than 500 employees from the environmental regulator IBAMA signed the letter and included a list of emergency measures they recommended including more qualified management and employees and a greater budget and increased autonomy. The Amazon has experienced an increased rate of fires during drought periods in the last 20 years but the phenomenon this year is unusual because drought has not yet hit said Laura Schneider of Rutgers University New Brunswick. Schneider an associate professor in the geography department said fire is commonly used by people to clear land for cultivation and the actual area burned this year must be measured for an accurate comparison with damage in past years. While many of the recorded fires this year were set in already deforested areas by people clearing land for cultivation or pasture Brazil government figures show that they are much more widespread this year suggesting the threat to the vast Amazon ecosystem is intensifying. But for now more immediate consequences of the raging flames were becoming clear. The worlds largest rainforest is a major absorber of carbon dioxide considered a critical defense against rising temperatures and other disruptions caused by climate change. The government in the Amazonian state of Rondonia has warned that the burning of land can produce smoke that can greatly influence atmospheric pollution putting the life of many at risk. Experts there said that when exposed to smoke residents can suffer from rhinitis sinus and respiratory problems like asthma and bronchitis while chronic exposure can also lead to pulmonary illnesses including lung emphysema. Weve seen that Porto Velho has been taken over by smoke so inhaling those antigens and pathogens can harm the whole citys population Ana Carolina Terra Cruz a specialist in pulmonary illnesses told the state government website. Deep ramifications Trump would cost General Motors billions if he actually orders business out of China On Tuesday some clouds and a blue sky were partly visible in the Porto Velho morning light. But by the afternoon haze had again settled with smoke so thick that it darkened the usually blazing sun. Pereira the agronomist said that smoke was everywhere. Its bad for everyone she said. Not just our children.	True	True	False	True	False
The federal rule required vehicles to average 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025 nearly double todays standard. The new standard provided significant environmental and financial benefits if fully implemented. Under those rules oil consumption would fall by 12 billion barrels tailpipe emissions would halve and fuel efficiency would nearly double saving consumers 3200 to 5700 in gasoline costs over a vehicles lifetime. The regulation would have prevented 6 billion metric tons of planet warming gases equivalent to a years worth of pollution from 150 power plants from ever entering the atmosphere. In its 38 page finding the EPA cited lower gas prices and changes to consumer acceptance of advanced technology vehicles as reasons the original determinations no longer represent realistic assumptions. The agency also said it planned to reconsider how climate change factored in to regulation noting that the social cost of carbon and energy security valuation ... should also be updated to be consistent with the literature and empirical evidence. The memo made no mention of climate change. Automakers agreed to the rule in 2012 as part of the first major overhaul of fuel efficiency standards since the 1970s. But the policy set an April 2018 deadline to review the standards and tweak them if they proved too expensive or impossible to meet. In January 2017 the Obama administration attempted to lock the regulation in place by issuing a positive assessment of the costs and feasibility of the regulations. Despite overwhelmingly supporting the agreement seven years ago carmakers began lobbying then President elect Donald Trump to reverse the Obama ruling almost immediately after the 2016 election.Automakers missed their emissions target for the first time last year even though they achieved record fuel economy in part because the companies boosted production of gas guzzling SUVs. The decision to rewrite the rule puts the EPA at loggerheads with California regulators who agreed in 2011 as part of the rule to align their tailpipe emissions standards with the national levels. The deal guaranteed consistent mileage and emissions rules nationwide allowing automakers to save money by manufacturing vehicles to one standard. Undoing the rule threatens to upend that uniformity. Under the Clean Air Act California is allowed to set vehicle emissions standards higher than the rest of the country and with nearly 35.4 million registered vehicles the state commands powerful influence over the American auto market. A dozen other states including New York Massachusetts and Pennsylvania have historically followed Californias lead. Cooperative federalism doesnt mean that one state can dictate standards for the rest of the country Pruitt said. It is in Americas best interest to have a national standard and we look forward to partnering with all states including California as we work to finalize that standard. The decision prompted sharp criticism from former EPA administrators. Carol Browner who served as the agencys chief from 1993 to 2001 said Pruitt was wrong to cast California as wielding outsize influence over the regulations. She noted that the Golden State compromised on a number of rules including a zero emissions vehicle program. This is all just another case of this administration wanting to make good on their political rhetoric and in this case not even wanting to make good for our own automakersMcCarthy now the director of Harvard Universitys Center for Health and the Global Environmenttold HuffPost. We support increasing clean car standards through 2025 and are not asking for a rollback they wrote in a blog post on Medium. We want one set of standards nationally along with additional flexibility to help us provide more affordable options for our customers. The EPA never implemented the Clean Power Plan the signature Obama era rule to reduce emissions from the utility sector. But the law is still on the books and the EPA has yet to propose a replacement that meets the legal requirements set by a 2007 Supreme Court ruling that found the agency is obliged to regulate any type of air pollution that may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare including greenhouse gases. The EPA and the Department of the Interior moved to eliminate Obama era rules restricting methane emissions from gas drilling sites. But last July the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled against the EPAs plan to suspend the rule. In February the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California ruled that the Interior Departments plan to delay methane regulations was untethered to evidence.	False	False	False	True	True
Two of the attorneys representing various cities in climate litigation against oil companies have a history of suing and counter suing each other over personal squabbles according to documents obtained by The Daily Caller News Foundation. Environmental attorneys Vic Sher and Matt Pawa got intoa multi million dollar legal dispute in 2014 stemming from a lawsuit they both worked on against ExxonMobil. Sher who was with Sher Leff at the time allegedPawas group Pawa Law Group failed to distribute money from a settlement in the case. Pawa in turn argued in a lawsuit that Sher was the one cheating him out of millions of dollars. Sher who is now with Sher Edling eventually paid Pawa about 6 million for the retributionscourt documents show. The disagreementstems from a lawsuit New Hampshire filed in 2013 alleging Exxon negligently contaminated the states water ways with 2 billion gallons of MTBE a gas additive experts believe poisons drinking water. The intrigue comes amid growing bad blood between the two sides. The state initially sued 26 oil companies in 2003 over the contamination. New Hampshire previously collected over 130 million for MTBE cleanup from the other defendants. The jury eventually awarded the state damages of 816 million. Exxon was made to pay roughly 29 percent of market share which equaled roughly 236372664 at the time of the lawsuit. New Hampshires Supreme Courtupheld the decisionin 2015 after Exxon appealed the ruling to the top court. A dispute arose between Pawa and Sher in 2012 relating to the division of attorneys fees between them under a contract with New Hampshire which retained both to represent the state in the Exxon contamination case. A panel eventually awarded Pawa nearly 6 million for breaching the agreement. Sher Leff refused to comply with the final award including payment of the amounts awarded to Pawas law firm even while Sher Leff pocketed more than 27 million in attorneys fees from the Exxon case. Sher countersued in 2014 arguing Pawa entered into a secondary oral agreement that the legal fees associated with the case would be delivered proportionally. Shers case was dismissed. Neither Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP a California based law firm that now employs Pawa nor Sher Edling responded to TheDCNFs request for comment about how the nearly five year old lawsuit is affecting their current legal pursuits of Exxon. Both law firms Sher Edling and Hagens Berman are barnstorming the country convincing cities to sue energy companies for allegedly contributing to damage caused by climate change. The rivalry between the two attorneys heated up Nov. 26 after San Francisco and Oaklandfired Hagens Bermanand hired Sher Edling to represent the cities as they appeal a courts decision to dismiss their lawsuits against Exxon. Hagens Berman is handling King County Washingtonslawsuit againstfive major oil companies. The California based firm was also behind anow dismissed climate lawsuitbrought by New York City.RELATEDAnti Exxon Attorneys Suffer Setback Amid Rash Of Legal Defeats Hagens Bermans fee would have been 23.5 percent of any winnings from its cases with San Francisco and Oakland. Hagens Bermanstood to earn possiblybillions of dollars in contingency fees depending on the total winnings had San Francisco Oakland or New York City won their global warming suits. Sher Edling for its part ishandlingclimate lawsuits for six California cities and counties. Local governments suing fossil fuel interests argue state nuisance and trespassing laws which have sometimes been applied to pollution also apply to global warming. They also accuse energy companies of trying to downplay the harms their products allegedly cause. Hagens Berman and Sher Edlings dramacomes after New York fileda lawsuit in October against Exxon for allegedly downplaying for decades the risk the companys oil products pose on the climate. The lawsuitfollows over three years of investigationfirst orchestrated by former Attorney General Eric Schneiderman who resigned in April over abuse allegations from former romantic partners. The probe took many twists and turns and seemed to come to a halt shortly after his resignation.RELATEDSEC Investigators Decide Not To Punish Exxon For Alleged Climate Heresy Exxon engaged in a longstanding fraudulent scheme to deceive investors analysts and underwriters concerning the companys management of the risks posed to its business by climate change regulationthe lawsuit notes. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	False	False	True	True
These devastating images show an indigenous family surveying the ruins of their homeland in the Amazon rainforest. Surrounded by dry soil and fallen timber their native land has been all but destroyed by rapid deforestation. During the day the usually fierce sun is obscured by a thick grey smoke caused by deliberately lit wildfires that are raging out of control across Brazil. The smell is of barbecue caused by vast swathes of the worlds largest tropical rainforest going up in flames. Raimundo Mura indigenous leader with the Mura tribe who live in a reserve near Humaita Amazonas state said For the forest I will go on until my last drop of blood. All the trees had lives they all needed to live each in their own place. For us this is destruction. What is being done here is an atrocity against us. The rainforest is home to some one million indigenous people and three million species of plants and animals. But it is being decimated at record rates burnt or cleared for farming and mining. Scientists have recorded more than 74000 fires in Brazil this year an 84 increase compared to the same period last year. They can now be seen from space and have plunged the largest city Sao Paulo into darkness because of the heavy smoke. In total the blazes have created a layer of smoke estimated to be 1.2 million square miles wide that spreads across Latin America to the Atlantic coast. Handech Wakana Mura another local leader within the forest said With each passing day we see the destruction advance deforestation invasion and logging. We are sad because the forest is dying at every moment. We feel the climate changing and the world needs the forest. We need the forest and our children need the forest. Environmentalists and academics have blamed the Brazilian government under far right President Jair Bolsonaro for a sharp increase in Amazon deforestation. The climate change sceptic swept to power in January promising to open up the Amazon to mining and farming. His rhetoric is said to have emboldened farmers to burn large sections of the rainforest for beef and soy production. Camila Veiga of the Brazilian Association of NGOs said The fires are the consequence of a policy of environmental devastation of support for agribusiness of increasing pastures. The fires have been raging for around three weeks and an area the size of a football pitch is said to be lost every minute. Global concern is growing as the rainforest is key to tackling global warming because of the way it absorbs carbon dioxide and releases oxygen. Mr Bolsonaro largely ignored the issue at first and even attempted to blame environmental charities accusing them of lighting the fires. Opposition MPs have said the raging infernos are a crime against humanity and blamed his policies for fuelling the blazes. French President Emmanuel Macron had called the wildfires an international crisis and said the leaders of the G7 group of nations should hold urgent discussions about them during their summit in France this weekend. Mr Macron tweeted Our house is burning. Literally. The Amazon rain forest the lungs which produces 20 of our planets oxygen is on fire. Mr Bolsonaro hit back at Macron complaining he was the subject of a smear campaign and the media had exploited the fires to undermine his government. His chief of staff Onyx Lorenzoni also accused European countries of exaggerating environmental problems in Brazil in order to disrupt its commercial interests. Relations between Europe and Brazil are at a low which has worried the powerful agriculture sector. Last week Norway joined Germany in halting 60 million worth of Amazon protection subsidies accusing Brazil of turning its back on the fight against deforestation. French and German leaders have also threatened not to ratify a trade deal between the European Union and Mercosur countries Argentina Brazil Paraguay and Uruguay to pressure Brazil into complying with its environmental pledges within the Paris Climate Agreement. In contrast the UK is currently on a trade mission in Brazil attempting to forge closer ties post Brexit. The neighbouring country of Bolivia is also struggling with wildfires many believed to have been set by farmers clearing land for cultivation.	False	False	False	True	False
The sun dips towards the sea on Xifara beach as Stella Cervello walks along picking up handfuls of plastic waste. There are shredded plastic bags a glowstick from a rave on nearby Mykonos and even a food carton from Turkey. Look you can see all the microplastics she says pointing at a mass of coloured dots bobbing on the waves. Like many islands in Greece's Cycladic region waste production on the island of Paros explodes in summer when over 400000 tourists join a local population of just 13000. Paros is now at the centre of a drive to turn itself into the world's first island that is truly free of plastic waste. It looks like quite a challenge. In high season the white and blue painted cafes that line the picturesque streets get through 1000 plastic takeaway cups a day. Thousands of plastic bottles of water are shipped in daily because many believe the tap water is undrinkable although the water company insists that is wrong. You are really exposed to the reality of the situation when you live by the sea says campaigner Zana Kontamanoli. The Greek waste management system suffered heavy cuts during the country's financial crisis meaning recycling is often not separated and many landfill sites are not up to EU standards. A shocking 95 of waste in the Mediterranean is plastic. But within three years this may change. Paros residents Stella Cervello and Zana Kontamanoli are behind the Clean Blue Paros initiative that involves the local municipality as well as several NGOs. I was really shocked when I arrived. I could not believe how many plastic cups were flying around by the beach says Ms Cervello who began trying to make the island more sustainable when she moved here from France in 2016. And while she was starting up a Facebook group and talking to businesses about possible alternatives to plastic Jo Royle from the charity Common Seas was trying to identify a Mediterranean island that could become a model for a future free of plastic waste. Islands provide a microcosm of a system that allows us to clearly see material flows says Ms Royle. We've got one port where everything comes in and goes off so we can really evaluate whether the systems we're piloting work. Paros was chosen because its changes in population give it complexity and because she found out when she visited the island that people were already working on the issue. Other islands such as the Seychelles archipelago have banned single use plastics but this is the first time an entirely new approach is being taken to make an island completely free of plastic waste. Huge signs now greet tourists at the airport to tell them about the Paros initiative. It's what the island needs says Ms Cervello. The team's first task was to convince as many local businesses as possible to drop pointless plastics such as straws and bottled water. Out of 70 businesses we've spoken to 50 have signed up says Zana Kontamanoli. Fourteen businesses are piloting the separate collection of plastic cups and bottles which have a higher value recycle rate. The plastic will then be recycled on the mainland into something that can return to the island such as benches. Research shows that when recycling is separated people are less likely to just chuck all their waste in and contaminate it says Kontamanoli. However there are still many obstacles facing the team. Most bins on the island do not close so the strong Aegean winds blow waste into the sea. And while many residents are enthusiastic about the project there are still some that need convincing. Not serving bottled water has harmed us admits Andy Kirk owner of Nemobar the first business to sign up to the scheme. Even when we explain we have a water filter many customers don't like it. But we've stuck to our guns. Another sticking point has been convincing bakeries and pharmacies to stop using plastic bags. The team has managed to collect thousands of used hotel bed sheets which would usually be sent to landfill and are making them into tote bags. In our audit we found that on some parts of the island 60 of waste was recyclable so there needs to be more education says Kontamanoli. The team is focusing its education efforts on the island's 2500 schoolchildren. Most drink one small bottle of water a day each so they are being given refillable bottles while water filters are being installed at schools. Children are powerful drivers of change because they go home and talk to their parents about it says Zana Kontamanoli. Although they are only six months in the team are optimistic that big changes can be made as soon as the tourist season is over and residents have more time on their hands to overhaul how they do things. Plastic pollution is very complex and there's not one solution says Jo Royle. But we hope if these systems work they can be applied elsewhere too.	False	True	False	True	False
A new study published in the highly influential journal Nature suggests rising global temperatures during the 19th and 20th centuries may be linked to greater plant photosynthesis. The study conducted by researchers at the University of California at Merced estimated based on its models the sum of all plant photosynthesis on Earth grew by 30 percent over the 200 year record captured according to an article published on the UC Merced website. Photosynthesis is the process of converting carbon dioxide into carbohydrates which power plants using sunlight. According to the UC Merced article The research did not identify the cause of the increased photosynthesis but computer models have shown several processes that could together create such a large change in global plant growth. The leading candidates are rising atmospheric CO2 levels a result of emissions from human activities longer growing seasons a result of climate change caused by CO2 emissions and nitrogen pollution another result of fossil fuel combustion and agriculture the article also claims. In other words more carbon dioxide which is being produced by humans at record levels has improved plant growth which in turn improves food production for humans and animals. Campbell said the evidence shows a fundamental shift in the Earths plants and that global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race. However dont too excited Campbell warns. He says despite the researchers findings which clearly show global warming helps plantsand thus also helping humans and animalsglobal warming has many negative effects too such as causing climate change which will increase flooding of coastal cities extreme weather and ocean acidification. The researchers study in Nature provided no proof oftheclaim global warming is caused by humans or that global warming will cause the severe problemsCampbell said it will in the quotes provided by the UC Merced article. The study also offered no solutions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions without causing severe economic and social problems for billions of people. The study did however show increased carbon dioxide levels have generally helped plants and crops.	False	False	False	True	True
HuffPost has obtained a list of prominent climate deniers that the Heartland Institute a right wing think tank assembled and submitted to the agency in May. The Illinois based group which hasties to the fossil fuel billionaires who run Koch Industries boasted in July that the White House reached out for help identifying scientists for these debates. This appears to be the list the Heartland Institute provided. The names included on the list suggest that the Heartland Institute wants the debate to go directly after the scientific and legal underpinnings of the EPAs regulations on climate change. Rather than debating the regulatory approaches they want to undermine the conclusion that climate change is a real problem. But while Trump and Pruitt have begun rolling back regulations on greenhouse gas emissions so far they have not attempted to undo the 2009 finding that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases pose a threat to human health and the environment a conclusion known as the endangerment finding. It was the EPA under George W. Bush that first made that determination in response to a 2007 Supreme Court ruling but it never acted on that finding. The Obama EPA did and once that conclusion was reached the agency was required by law to issue regulations under the Clean Air Act. Ninety seven percent of peer reviewed research agrees with the conclusion that burning fossil fuels deforestation and industrial farms are enshrouding the planet in heat trapping gases and a research review published last November found significant flaws in the methodologies assumptions or analyses used by the 3 percent of scientists who concluded otherwise. Calls for the red team blue team exercise began in April one month before the date marked on the top of the documents.On April 20 the day before the March for Science protest in Washington D.C. New York University physicist Steve Koonin published an op ed in The Wall Street Journal calling for a red team blue team exercise to put the consensus to the test and improve public understanding through an open adversarial process. The next day Judith Curry a retired climatologist known for mocking other scientists as alarmists and Anthony Watts who runs a popular climate change denial blog endorsed the idea.The next week Pruitt met with Koonin for an hour according to schedules published by The Washington Post. The meeting included about 40 climate scientists economists lawyers and other experts to discuss the possible creation by the Trump administration of a Red Team Blue Team exercise on climate change he wrote. He noted this was the second Red Team briefing following an initial gathering on June 14 in Washington D.C. A final summit is scheduled for Nov. 8 the day before the Heartland Institutes America First Energy Conference in Houston. This seems to be the goal of the list which includes 145 scientists and 60 economists who have long been on the fringes of the climate debate making their names as contrarians given to bombastic public statements. In his email Bast said he assembled a list of around 150 climate experts which he sent to folks at EPA in response to their request for recommendations. A source who requested anonymity provided the list to the watchdog Climate Investigations Center which shared it with HuffPost. Aztec priests told people they must cut out their beating hearts to bring better climate for their crops. The people believed them he wrote in a December 2015 blog post. Todays climate priests tell people they must cut out their CO2 emissions and pay penances to other nations like China to save our climate. The people believe them. I would go right down to the core starting with the question How much do human emissions increase atmospheric carbon dioxide? Thats the first assumption the blue team makes and they have to prove that thats true he said. In my opinion the red team would win that debate on the carbon dioxide. Carlin spent decades as an economist working at the EPA before becoming a conservative media darling for publicly accusing the agency of muzzling his criticism of the endangerment finding. He was never assigned to work on climate change and holds a doctorate in economics not atmospheric science or climatology and his comments on the finding were deemed to be the product of rushed and at times shoddy scholarship according to a 2009 analysis by The New York Times. Yet he submitted the 93 page report suggesting the research behind human caused climate change is more religion than science.	True	True	True	True	False
We told you last week that the DNC refused to allow their 2020 Democratic candidates to debate the issue of Climate Change. They were afraid that it would end up hurting whichever candidate goes into the general election next year. Well this is the end result of that decision. CNN has announced one massive town hall on Climate Change not massive in crowd size but massive in the amount of time it will take CNN on Tuesday announced the candidate lineup for its unprecedented prime time event focused on the climate crisis. Ten Democratic presidential hopefuls will appear in New York at back to back town halls on Wednesday September 4 taking audience questions about their climate plans as scientists sound the alarm about global warming. Along with the candidates the network also announced the CNN journalists and the approximate appearance times for the presidential hopefuls during the seven hour live event. Here are the details of this marathon non debate town hall Id rather fall into a 40000 foot deep man made hole in Russia than watch Democrats tell us how were all going to die in 12 years if we dont get rid of fossil fuels.	False	False	False	True	False
A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit Friday targeting ExxonMobil on the basis that two California cities waging a legal battle could not prove the energy company was responsible for climate change in the state. District Judge William Alsup wrote that San Francisco and Oakland failed to prove that global warming would be substantially curtailed if the oil company did not operate inside California. His decision follows a ruling the judge made in June dismissing both cases on the grounds that Congress not the court system is responsible for addressing the emission of greenhouse gasses. It is manifest thatglobal warming would have continued in the absence of all California related activities of defendants Alsup wrote in his July 27 decision. Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants alleged California activities to plaintiffs harm. Cities in Colorado Rhode Island and New York have also filed similar lawsuits against energy producers over the past year. They argue that Exxon and others should pony up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change. Many of the lawsuits have already been nixed. Alsup also suggested that climate change would be no better or worse even if Exxon were not operating in California. From all that appears in the amended complaints howeverthis worldwide chain of events Exxons oil production does not depend on a particular defendants contacts with California he said. Whatever sales or events occurred in California werecausally insignificantin the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming. Trial lawyers with Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled climate lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings called a contingency fee.RELATED Trial Lawyers Handling Cities Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions Hagens Bermanstood to earn billions of dollarsin contingency fees depending on the total winnings from a favorable judgement against oil companies. The three cities claimed billions of dollars worth of damage from global warming induced by fossil fuels.	True	True	False	True	False
The survey commissioned by the progressive think tank Data for Progress and conducted online from Oct. 11 15 found even stronger support among young voters and people of color. Voters aged 18 29 ranked green jobs as their No. 4 priority and voters of color in that age range ranked it No. 3. In a Gallup poll last month just 1 percent of Americans including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats chose environmentpollution as the countrys most important problem from a list of dozens of issues. In a separate May 2017 Gallup survey just 2 percent of Americans listed create more green jobs as the best policy to increase employment in the United States compared to 19 percent who listed keep manufacturing jobs hereStop sending overseas. The findings come as the Trump administration is on the cusp of fully rolling back two of the most critical federal rules to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Next year the White House is planning a make a new push to build more oil and gas pipelines Larry Kudlow the presidents top economic adviser said at an event this month. Already at least six of the Democratic senators expected to run for president in 2020 are backing legislation to guarantee a job to every American worker who wants one. Its an idea roughly 46 percent of Americans support according to an April survey by Rasmussen Reports. Polling Data for Progress released in September pegged the number slightly higher at 55 percent of eligible U.S. voters but found that those opposed decreased from 23 percent to 18 percent when the guaranteed jobs are green. Even among Trump voters the September survey found support for guaranteed jobs is stronger when the jobs are green with 35 percent in support and 36 percent opposed. Without an environmental focus Trump voters in support of guaranteed jobs dropped to 30 percent with 45 percent opposed. Even in deep red counties in fossil fuel producing states support for requiring utilities to produce 20 percent of electricity from renewables averages well above 50 percent according to 2018 survey data from the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication. Support for providing tax rebates for energy efficient vehicles and solar panels soars well above 75 percent in most of those same counties. Adopting a green jobs plan could also help Democrats ease the tension between the partys labor and climate hawks. In August the Democratic National Committee backtracked on a two month old ban on fossil fuel donations. The move was a cave to unions that overwhelmingly support pipeline projects that pay much better than renewable energy jobs which tend not to use organized labor. Still the policy seems far off at best. Its difficult to imagine such a bill passing a Republican dominated Congress much less gaining Trumps signature. Democratic leadership has indicated it has no plans to push a major climate bill even if the party takes the House of Representatives in next months election. Yet theres a small contingent of left wing candidates including Wisconsin congressional candidate Randy Bryce and Kevin de Len the California lawmaker challenging Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein who are running on a so called Green New Deal a reference to the Great Depression era spending programs that established many of the nations infrastructure landmarks. Ocasio Cortez the democratic socialist expected to become the next U.S. representative for New Yorks 14th Congressional District likened climate change to the existential threat posed by Nazi Germany and the Axis. The last time we had a really major existential threat to this country was around World War II Ocasio Cortez said at a campaign event. And so weve been here before and we have a blueprint of doing this before. Climate scientists tend to agree. In July Penn State University climatologist Michael Mann called Ocasio Cortezs proposal for trillions in federal spending on a Green New Deal to be just the sort of audacious and bold thinking we will need if we are going to avert a climate crisis. Just three weeks ago a sobering United Nations report warned that world governments have just 12 years to halve emissions in order to avert cataclysmic climate change. And even then the researchers found that technologies to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere will be required to keep warming within 2.3 degrees Fahrenheit beyond which scientists say many densely populated places will become uninhabitable. Progress to mitigate climate change has been alarmingly limited. Despite the rapid construction of renewable energy infrastructure the United States the worlds largest per capita emitter is aggressively bolstering its fossil fuel production. Last year Trump announced the U.S. would withdraw from the Paris climate agreement which every recognized country on Earth has signed. Brazil the vast rainforests of which are critical to absorbing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere is poised to elect a president who vowed to ramp up deforestation and withdraw from the historic 2015 accord as well. China the worlds top national emitter is continuing to build new coal plants despite pledging to cancel the facilities.	True	False	False	True	False
LOS ANGELES Reuters One of the worst droughts in California history has officially ended Governor Jerry Brown declared but not before it strained the states farm economy and threatened water supplies for millions of residents. Months of drenching storms and melting snowpack have replenished reservoirs which began drying up in late 2011. That allowed Brown to lift most stipulations of an emergency order he implemented in January 2014 about two years after the conditions crossed the line into drought. Brown also said the need for conservation continued. Officials will still require some long term water use limits imposed last year and are developing water preservation standards for urban agencies. This drought emergency is over but the next drought could be around the corner Brown said in a statement. Conservation must remain a way of life. The drought cost the agricultural economy billions killed an estimated 100 million trees led a half million acres of farmland to be fallowed and deprived some communities of reliable sources of drinking water. In April 2015 when the states snowpack hit its lowest since 1950 at 5 percent of its historic average Brown stood on a dry mountain that was normally blanketed in snow at that time of year and ordered urban areas to reduce water use by 25 percent. As of last week the snowpack stood at 150 percent of normal. The 2015 order led environmentalists to complain that the state which leads the nation in production of fruits and vegetables did too little to force farmers to conserve water. For their part farmers said they received far less water than promised by state and federal authorities. On Friday the Democratic governor lifted the drought declaration in all counties except four mostly in the states agricultural Central Valley. Its worth taking a moment to be grateful for all the rain and snow out there Felicia Marcus chair of the State Water Resources Control Board told reporters on a conference call after the governors announcement. California officials have credited residents for doing their part to conserve water by taking shorter showers and ripping out grass lawns to install landscaping that requires minimal irrigation among other measures. Even though the drought is officially over groundwater supplies remain below normal the Natural Resources Defense Council cautioned in a statement. Year after year California continues to use more water than is made available by nature Kate Poole director of the groups water and wildlife project said in a statement.	True	False	False	True	True
White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders dismissed a major White House climate change report that some have used to criticize President Donald Trumps position on global warming. The report is not based on facts Sanders told reporters during a press conference Tuesday. She also arguedthat climate modeling of the kind researchers used in the National Climate Assessment report is never exact. We think that this is the most extreme version and its not based on facts she said. Its not data driven. Wed like to see something that is more data driven. Its based on modeling which is extremely hard to do when youre talking about the climate. The NCA report came from a team of 13 federal agencies and was cobbled together with the help of 300 scientists. They used a Representative Concentration Pathway adopted by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes IPCC fifth Assessment Report AR5 to make their conclusions. Continued use of coal and other fossil fuels will eliminate 10 percent of the GDP by 2100according to the report. The country will also be 3 to 12 degrees hotter depending on the level of greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere the report warns. It also suggests wildfires and hurricanes will increase as a result if the risk is left unchecked. The report is not without its controversies. One climate expert argues researchers used an unreliable climate model. University of Colorado Prof. Roger Pielke Jr. for instance criticized the researchers in a series of tweets Saturday for basing their modeling on a data that are likely to change dramatically over the course of the next 80 years. He says the NCAs second volume relies on the RCP8.5 one of the four possible pathways in the trajectory. RELATED A Top Line Claim In The Newest US Climate Report Relies On Research Tied To Major Democratic Donors This particular pathway is slowly being phased out of the IPCCs modeling becausescientists believethe model likely overestimates future supply of fossil fuels. Researchers used the most extreme example possible to sell the narrative that wildfires will get worse Pielke noted. He has criticized the medias handling of similar reports. NCAs dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes froma 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors. The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	True	True
WASHINGTON Gasoline oil and other contaminants that threaten groundwater are seeping from more than 70000 underground tanks around the country but the federal aid that has helped address the problem could soon start drying up. The Trump administration is proposing to slash funding for the Leaking Underground Storage Tank program by nearly half next year from nearly 92 million this year to about 47 million in 2018. The recommended cut in the LUST program is part of the presidents proposal to reduce the Environmental Protection Agency budget by 31 next year. Funding for LUST is a drop inthe EPAs 8.2 billion budget. But state officials environmental activists and public health advocates warn that the size of the cut carries great risk considering groundwater is the source of drinking water for nearly half of all Americans. They say such a reduction would hamper monitoring prevention enforcement and cleanup of leaks as well as the important role EPA plays in providing technical assistance to state regulators and businesses many of them gas stations who have aging tanks and piping under their sites. In a letter earlier this year to congressional leaders the head of the trade organization representing state solid waste agencies said the cut would impedethe long term progress states have made on inspection and cleanup. The program has made great strides in increasing the number of compliant tanks in the last 25 years which has resulted in fewer releases wrote Dania Rodriguez executive director of the Association of State and Territorial Solid Waste Management Officials. Loss of program funding would reverse this trend. The Trump administration announced the proposed cut in May two months after the Department of Veterans Affairs officially recognized the harm contaminated water some of it linked to underground fuel tanks inflicted on hundreds of thousands of marines stationed at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina from 1953 through 1987. Under the VA program announced in March those who served at least 30 days in Lejeune during that period are eligible for treatment of eight diseases including several cancers and Parkinsons Disease. There are 558451 active tanks located in about 201000 sites nationwide according to the EPA's most recent tally. Most are service stations but they also include any operation where fuel is stored underground such as government fleet garages large retail operations like Costco stores that sell gas and institutions like hospitals or universities that store fuel to power emergency generators. Across the country thousands of underground storage tanks and accompanying pipes many of them made from older corroding steel hold and carry a variety of fuels and chemicals the Environmental Defense Fund wrote in a recent report. When tanks leak harmful chemicals such as oil gas benzene and toluene into soil and ground water drinking water and soil are fouled community health is jeopardized and economic development is crippled. The number of tanks with confirmed releases hit a high in 1995 with nearly 172000. But the backlog of sites needing to be cleaned up has been declining since 2000 according to EPA records. As of March 31 EPA reported 70094tanks with confirmed leaks. Some of these are not actively leaking but have residual contamination that needs to be cleaned up. Superfund cuts would lead to delays in toxic cleanups experts warn Florida leads the list of states reporting the most leaking tanks with 10421 followed by Michigan 8000 Illinois 5733 New Jersey 5100and North Carolina 4006. Site owners are ultimately liable for cleanup costs but a taxpayer funded trust fund is in place when sites must be addressed quickly are abandoned or when owners dont have the resources. The fund is financed by a 0.1 cent per gallon tax on gasolinewhich generated 202 million in 2016. Administration officials did not offer much explanation for the cut one of dozens proposed in the EPA budget. Historically the underground tank program has worked closely with our state territorial and tribal partners an agency spokeswoman wrote in an email. We know they are on the front lines to protect our land and groundwater from petroleum leaks such as those from gas stations and other underground storage tank facilities and we expect this partnership will continue to be a hallmark of the program. She wrote it would be premature for us to speculate about EPAs budget given that Congress has yet to finalize the agencys funding for next year. The House Appropriations Committee voted in July to restore almost all of the funding for the program but neither the full House nor the Senate has acted yet. The cost of cleaning up a site depends on a variety of factors including the extent of contamination and state cleanup standards. The average cleanup is estimated to cost 130000 but can rise to over 1 million if groundwater is infected. Ben Thomas a former tank inspector and state regulator in Alaska who now consults with private operators on meeting the inspection rules said cutting the program would hurt businesses that have come to appreciate the heavy stick of enforcement for bad players and the general community outreach. Slashing a program known for the collaboration between regulators and businesses and the effectiveness its achieved in reducing the backlog of leaking tanks would be crippling he said. At some point such a deep cut makes any agency effectively non responsive Thomas said. Theres simply not enough money to know what to prioritize. Stuff that makes a big stink like enforcement would probably get cut as would the ability for states to maintain a hotline maintaina web page or do workshops.I could easily imagine all that stuff would be kind of viewed as frivolous and go away because its not core statement message stuff.	False	False	False	True	False
This week President Donald Trump was to meet with senior administration officials to discuss the deal and whether the United States should withdraw from it. The meeting was postponed indefinitely and with key Trump advisers divided over the issue it is still uncertain what Trump will finally do about the accord. But advocates of greater federal regulations to address climate change are already expressing dismay about the administration's stance. It's no secret that Trump has called climate change a hoax in the past. Last month he signed an executive order rolling back Obama era climate regulations which will initiate a review of the Clean Power Plan an effort to cut carbon dioxide emissions that Obama started. And Trump's pick to run the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt has made it clear addressing climate change will not be an urgent priority for the agency under his watch declining to say after his confirmation whether he would forbid EPA scientists from studying the human connection to the issue. We have many priorities at the agency. We must focus on those he told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on The Situation Room in February rattling off other needs such as improving air quality. He declined to answer repeated questions as to whether he would allow climate change research. It's a shame for us to lose our leadership position said Christine Todd Whitman the EPA administrator during the George W. Bush administration. We are an extraordinarily innovative capable nation. We can come up with better ways to provide power to people and still keep jobs. This idea that environmental protection and economic growth are contrary are just wrong and we've proven that over the years as we have reduced the pollutants in the air increased the population increased our energy demand and watched our GDP more than double. We've seen we can do this Whitman continued. We've done it in the past we can do it again. We can't have a thriving economy if you don't have a healthy clean environment. Adam Koniuszewski project leader of the Gorbachev Climate Change Task Force a think tank that focuses on global challenges posed by climate change agreed with Whitman. President Trump has an America First policy he said. But in terms of climate leadership it is exactly the opposite. Promoting a coal or fossil fuel based economy will in reality leave America last in terms of a low carbon economy in the 21st century. China is already taking the lead when it comes to renewable energy both solar and wind power. America must look forward to and innovate for 21st century solutions. An emphasis on coal and the energy sources that propelled the industrial revolution is like returning to the Stone Age. Trump's executive order also lifts the moratorium on coal mining on federal lands something that William Becker executive director of the Presidential Climate Action Project called a cruel political stunt designed to rally the support of coal miners but which won't bring back many jobs. What we need to do is make sure the transition to clean energy which is inevitable is a just and fair transition one that helps coal dependent communities and workers make transitions into other kinds of jobs Becker said. There's plenty to do out there including environmental restoration positions he said. Coal jobs are not going to come back. There may be a little surge in them but not much. It's technology or mechanization that's cost most of the jobs this past century in the coal industry. And now of course it's coal's inability to compete with natural gas on price for power generation. The market conditions are what's causing the coal industry to decline and there's not much the President can do to reverse that trend. Trump has proposed massive cuts at the EPA which Whitman believes is going to imperil its mission going forward. The EPA can't survive with 31 cuts to the budget she said. That's going to really make it impossible for the agency to continue its mission which is to protect public health and the environment.	True	True	False	True	False
His environmental policy record in his home state is long. In 2015 he ordered Washingtons Department of Ecology to impose a cap on carbon emissions. He created a fund for clean energy and the state now has extensive solar energy infrastructure and electric buses. While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels Washington had the highest G.D.P. growth in the nation in 2018 according to the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis. Mr. Inslee also tried unsuccessfully last year to get the Washington Legislature to vote on a carbon tax which would have been the first in the nation voters rejected the proposal in November. He then proposed a different series of actions including running the states electric utilities fully on renewable power by 2045 requiring buildings to be more energy efficient promoting electric vehicles and cutting down on hydrofluorocarbons which are used in air conditioners. Hydrofluorocarbon emissions have been growing faster than any other form of greenhouse gas emissions. In an op ed in The Washington Post Mr. Inslee called for net zero carbon emissions nationwide by 2050 a longer timeline than the Green New Deals 10 years which experts say is unrealistic. Net zero could mean either eliminating carbon emissions altogether or reducing them and using offsetting technologies to cancel out the rest. He also called for a 100 percent clean energy grid and massive investments to transition buildings industries and transportation to renewable sources. While Mr. Inslee has made clear that he intends to focus overwhelmingly on climate change he is on the record supporting liberal policies in many other areas. He has been outspoken in favor of gun control and after the shooting in Parkland Fla. last year he confronted President Trump on live television denouncing Mr. Trumps suggestion to arm schoolteachers. Among other measures he wants to expand background checks and restrict some semiautomatic weapons. His advocacy on the issue goes back many years he lost his seat in Congress after voting for the 1994 assault weapons ban.	True	False	False	True	True
In fact its getting bigger scientists now admit. A University of Auckland study examined changes in the geography of Tuvalus nine atolls and 101 reef islands between 1971 and 2014 using aerial photographs and satellite imagery. It found eight of the atolls and almost three quarters of the islands grew during the study period lifting Tuvalus total land area by 2.9 percent even though sea levels in the country rose at twice the global average. Co author Paul Kench said the research published Friday in the journal Nature Communications challenged the assumption that low lying island nations would be swamped as the sea rose. We tend to think of Pacific atolls as static landforms that will simply be inundated as sea levels rise but there is growing evidence these islands are geologically dynamic and are constantly changing he said. The study findings may seem counter intuitive given that the sea level has been rising in the region over the past half century but the dominant mode of change over that time on Tuvalu has been expansion not erosion. If only theyd done their study a bit earlier they could have saved a lot of alarmists a lot of worry. Asrecently as last year anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu pop. 11000 and nearby Kiribati pop.107000 was so dire that Australia and New Zealand should open their doors to the fleeing refugees. According to the paper In 2007 Grist went so far as to cite Tuvalu of one of climate changes most tragic victims. Climate Change in Tuvalu even has its own Wikipedia page. It records possibly Tuvalus greatest moment of glory on the international stage when it seized the opportunity at the 2009 Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen to grandstand about its terrible plight. In December 2009 the islands stalled talks atUnited Nations Climate Change ConferenceinCopenhagen fearing some other developing countries were not committing fully to binding deals on a reduction in carbon emission their chief negotiator stated Tuvalu is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to climate change and our future rests on the outcome of this meeting.57When the conference failed to reach a binding meaningful agreement Tuvalus representative Ian Fry said It looks like we are being offered30 pieces of silverto betray our people and our future Our future is not for sale. I regret to inform you that Tuvalu cannot accept this document.58 Frys speech to the conference was a highly impassioned plea for countries around the world to address the issues of man made global warming resulting in climate change. The five minute speech addressed the dangers of rising sea levels to Tuvalu and the world. In his speech Fry claimed man made global warming to be currently the greatest threat to humanity and ended with an emotional the fate of my country rests in your hands.59 Tuvalus plightalso formed part of the basis for arguably the most hysterical fake news claim in the history of climate alarmism the UNs prediction that by the end of 2010 climate change would have created 50 million environmental refugees. The UN has since removed the claim from most of its websites. Happily it can still be glimpsed in the Guardian archives Rising sea levels desertification and shrinking freshwater supplies will create up to 50 million environmental refugees by the end of the decade experts warn today. Janos Bogardi director of the Institute for Environment and Human Security at the United Nations University in Bonn said creeping environmental deterioration already displaced up to 10 million people a year and the situation would get worse. There are well founded fears that the number of people fleeing untenable environmental conditions may grow exponentially as the world experiences the effects of climate change Dr Bogardi said. This new category of refugee needs to find a place in international agreements. We need to better anticipate support requirements similar to those of people fleeing other unviable situations. In reality the total number of environmental refugees fleeing climate change so far around the world is close to zero. But that hasnt stopped a few chancers from trying it on Seventeen people from the Pacific including 11 from Tuvalu and five from Kiribati have already made refugee claims in New Zealand citing climate change as part of their basis of claim. None have been successful four have yet to be determined and 13 have been rejected because the refugees convention does not recognise climate change as grounds for protection. Toclimate skeptics the fact that Tuvalu is not drowning will come as no surprise whatsoever. Their favorite sea levels expert Nils Axel Mrner has written numerous papers on the subject.	True	True	False	True	False
Freshman Democrat Alexandria Ocasio Cortez has some lofty goals for herself and for America with the benefits definitelymore geared to benefit her. Meanwhile her plans for us are incredibly costly and not just because shes pushing a failed economic system for us to operate under. Ocasio Cortezs Green New Deal as Fox News highlighted on Tuesday is unprecedentedly expensive. The plan involves completely removing any and all uses of fossil fuels within America and moving to 100 percent renewable energy. The New York Democrat says the plan will take ten years. The cost of this ten year plan?7 trillion. As Ive highlighted previously the plan is beyond bad. Not onlywould it indebt us to Russia and China who hold the vast majority of the rare earth materials needed to build the tidal wave of renewable energy devices wed need to keep up with the nations energy needs but the wind farms tidal generators and solar farms have proven to be more deadly to the environment than oil spills. Hundreds of thousands of birds many of them protected species die at the hands of wind turbines yearly. Tidal generators beach whales with such frequency that if it were a Republican backed project environmental groups would be having conniptionfits and endless marches. Still Ocasio Cortez believes that if this plan gets put into action itll solve every problem under the sun including racism and bigotry. Whats more the young democratic socialist proclaims that if we dont do it then were all going to die in 12 years. When pie in the sky thinking meets end of times conspiracy theories we get something like this. A scenario where were all going to die unless we do exactly the thing some brave Democrat has proposed. All we have to do is give up our common sense.	False	True	False	True	False
The last time Californian climate scientist Peter Kalmus was on an airplane was in 2012 He says it made him feel physically sick and like he was stealing from his children's future and vowed never to fly again. US President Donald Trump's administration has made no secret of its disdain for climate science but that hasn't stopped some ordinary Americans from finding ways to drastically reduce their own carbon footprints hoping to persuade others through their examples. Kalmus was pursuing his post doctoral studies in 2009 when he became increasingly concerned about the prospect of climate breakdown tipping points such as the thawing of the Earth's permafrost triggering runaway global warming that wreaks havoc on weather systems. I was shaking people by the lapels posting screeds on Facebook not really getting anywhere he told AFP in an interview from his home in a Los Angeles suburb. Eventually it dawned on me that I should maybe bring my actions into alignment with my beliefs. Drawing upon his expertise as a scientist he calculated the emissions associated with various aspects of his life and was surprised to learn that electricity consumption made up a tiny portion compared to air travel. So I started focusing on flying less. I tried being a vegetarian for a month and I liked it better he said quickly realizing that rather than feeling like sacrifices the changes he made were improving his sense of wellbeing. Some people like Tarek Maassarani take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes. The bespectacled 40 year old with long blond hair does paid consulting for the United States Institute of Peace and is an adjunct professor at two Washington universities but performs the bulk of his work in the volunteer sector. Two years ago he moved out of a co housing community in a Washington suburb when his two sons shifted to Utah to live with their mother and has been living between friends' houses ever since. Apart from relying almost exclusively on his bicycle for transport including deep into winter Maassarani is focused on avoiding buying new products because of the energy intensive nature of their production. He instead depends on hand me downs and I sort of extend the life of things well past what most people would do finding ways to keep tatty decade old cell phones and laptops going. He gets much of his food from dumpster diving or from the leftovers at buffets from conferences he attends describing himself as a supply and demand vegan. What this means is I don't buy any animal products I try not to create any demand signal for animal products he said. At the same time if meat is all that is left when he rummages through garbage or approaches buffets he makes it a point to go last he will consume it. Maassarani is quick to admit that his case falls well outside what most people could envisage and is made possible only by living in what he calls a consumption excessive society. I'm aware of course that if the excesses weren't there it wouldn't work but then again the problem wouldn't be there. Others like Elizabeth Hogan lead more conventional lives but are still re orienting themselves toward more carbon neutrality. Hogan who works as a consultant on mitigating the impact of ocean plastics on marine life just outfitted solar panels on the roof of her home in Washington. She and her husband estimate these will account for 80 percent of their energy needs with the balance coming from wind power bought at a premium from their electric provider. Both of our careers are very planet oriented so it's kind of our whole lives but I am certainly not claiming to be perfect she says conceding that they both fly extensively for work. Her love of cheese means she's a vegetarian rather than a vegan but sources her dairy from a nearby local farm that cleans and re uses glass bottles returned to them. But how impactful can individual action be in the absence of systemic changes from the top? After all the United States' current climate commitments are rated by Climate Action Tracker as critically insufficient in meeting the goal of limiting long term warming to two degrees Celsius above pre industrial levels. Kalmus who has written a book on his experiences said meeting critical goals to avert disaster will require a rapid cultural transformation and acts of individual defiance help achieve that. The reason everyone's waking up is because there's been this massive grassroots shift over the last year or two he said citing the global youth movement for climate action. One of the many ways people can contribute to that movement is by telling others about steps they have personally taken then when you say 'this is really urgent' your words are backed by the truth of your actions. Vegan is the new vegetarianwhy supermarkets need to go 'plant based' to help save the planet This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research no part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is provided for information purposes only.	True	True	False	False	True
The Wall Street Journals Kimberley Strassel issued a blistering critique of the proposed Green New Deal saying that the proposal reads like a parody of the Democratic Party done by Republicans. By the end of the Green New Deal resolution and accompanying fact sheet I was laughing so hard I nearly cried Strassel wrote on Twitter. If a bunch of GOPers plotted to forge a fake Democratic bill showing how bonkers the party is they could not have done a better job. It is beautiful. The Green New Deal pushed by freshman New York Democrat Alexandra Ocasio Cortez attempts to radically transform the country including rendering air travel obsolete move the U.S. to rely completely on renewable energy with net zero emissions and guarantee economic security even for people who are unwilling to work. OCASIO CORTEZ CONTRADICTS HERSELF ON ROLE OF GOVERNMENT IN MASSIVE AND UNPRECEDENTED 'GREEN NEW DEAL' But the sweeping proposal was hit with mockery once the details were unveiled on Thursday with many pointing out how unrealistic the suggestions are. Strassel pointed out that in order to live up to the proposals promise of 100 percent of renewable energy a space as big as the entire state of California would have to be dedicated solely for the facilities wind turbines and solar panels. The proposals suggestion of putting charging stations everywhere upgrading or replacing every building and developinghigh speed railway across every state may also hit a wall due to permitting laws. FULL TEXT GREEN NEW DEAL FAQ CALLS FOR ABOLISHING 'FARTING COWS' AND 'AIRPLANES' ASAP Strassel notes that the Green New Deal is far from just a proposal to curb emissions and create more environmental regulations its also about implementing radical left wing measures. Somehow government run healthcare family sustainable wages paid leave and affordable housing are also required for a clean economy the writer wrote. I would love to understand this logic. And imagine what wages will need to be to pay for billion dollar per kilowatt electricity. But even those pushing for the document arent sure it can actually be achieved within 10 years. In a now deleted FAQ page on Ocasio Cortezs website the document explains that its calling for an elimination of greenhouse gas emissions rather than an immediate ban on fossil fuels because we aren't sure that we'll be able to fully get rid of farting cows and airplanes that fast. Planes run on fossil fuel. No fossil fuel no visits to granny. Cows produce methane why alarmists want to get rid of livestock Stressel wrote. She can't do it fully in 10 years but AOC is coming after your air miles and bacon. This is honesty sp about how Democrats would micromanage private life. Lastly the Green New Deal which doesnt exactly reveal how it will be funded except for the suggestion that the Federal Reserve could step in and extend credit. CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP And how to pay for mass trillions in cost? Don't worry! Federal Reserve will just extend credit and new public banks can be created to extend credit too the writer tweeted. Because you know like money is just paper and how hard can it be to make some more of the stuff right? Right?	False	False	False	True	True
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke suggested that climate change may have a role in the recent wildfires that have ravaged California. When asked by CBS News reporter Weijia Jiang whether he accepted that climate change was part of the problem Zinke said of course. He also acknowledged that temperatures are rising. However Zinke also reiterated an argument that he made earlier this week blaming environmental groups for preventing dead trees from being cleared due to their opposition to the logging industry. The only endangered species happens to be a logger Zinke said. Earlier this week Zinke blamed environmental terrorist groups for California's destructive wildfires in an interview with Breitbart Radio. We have been held hostage by these environmental terrorist groups that have not allowed public access that have refused to allow the harvest of timber Zinke told Breitbart Monday. On Sunday Zinke said that the wildfires had nothing to do with climate change in an interview with local news station KCRA TV. He suggested that environmental groups had prevented timber salvage operations meaning that forests could not be cleared of flammable detritus. I've heard the climate change argument back and forth. This has nothing to do with climate change. This has to do with active forest management Zinke said. President Trump tweeted earlier in August that California wildfires were made so much worse by bad environmental laws and called for clearing trees to prevent fires. The Mendocino Complex Fire north of San Francisco is the largest wildfire in state history and has scorched over 400 square miles. More than 14000 firefighters are responding to over a dozen major blazes throughout California.	True	False	False	False	False
US crude oil and petrochemical refining capacity in Texas has been severely damaged by Hurricane Harvey releasing hazardous pollutants into the air and flood waters left in the wake of the storm. Arkema a global chemical major warned Wednesday that flooding has severely damaged their Houston plant's refrigeration systems increasing the likelihood of an explosion in the coming week and a heightened risk of yet more pollutants leaking into the ecosystem. At this time while we do not believe there is any imminent danger the potential for a chemical reaction leading to a fire andor explosion within the site confines is real Arkema said in a statement. Oil giant Exxon Mobil is among the companies to report incidents of emissions released at its refineries as a result of the hurricane which ransacked coastal parts of Texas and caused widespread flooding in the countrys fourth biggest city Houston. However the true extent of the air pollution will prove hard to determine for some time after the storm subsides as The Texas Council on Environmental Quality shut down all of its air quality monitors in the Houston area according to the Houston Press. This effectively means the affected companies can report whatever they wish without any oversight from the state regulators. Texas is also home to several so called superfund sites designated areas of extreme pollution which warrant further investigation according to the Environmental Protection Agency. As shown in the before and after maps below the vast majority of these toxic sites are now flooded in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey. On Wednesday Saudi owned Motiva shuttered its refinery in Port Arthur Texas the largest facility in the US which normally produces 600000 barrels a day. At least 13 other refineries in the area closed as a result of Harvey the US Department of Energy reported while others are operating at limited capacity. Exxon admitted there were issues at its plants in a regulatory filing to the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality. Its Baytown refinery near Houston the second largest in the country was shutdown on Sunday as Harvey moved inland. The refinery reported two controlled emission release events which included carbon monoxide nitrogen oxides sulfur dioxide and benzene being released into the atmosphere. The chemicals and pollutants released from refineries and plants in Texas petrochemical hub are known to have a damaging effect on the environment and could pose a risk of contaminating floodwaters left in the hurricanes wake. The petrochemical Benzene a carcinogen and major component in fossil fuels reduces red and white blood cell production and decreases auto immune cell function following prolonged exposure. While other emissions including sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides are particle forming air pollutants that contribute to cardiopulmonary health issues like lung cancer bronchitis and emphysema. In a third reported incident since Harvey made landfall in Texas Exxon said a floating roof over a tank in its Baytown refinery sank as a result of the rain causing unusually high levels of emissions to be released. Floating roofs are common in oil tanks and are a way to control how much oil is lost to evaporation by allowing the roof to move based on the amount of liquid in the tank. Exxon said it would conduct an assessment to determine the impact of the storm once its safe to do so the Washington Post reports. The company said it needed to make repairs on the tank which would involve first emptying it though Exxon could not confirm in what time frame. One of the companys other facilities in Beaumont east of Houston also released 1300lbs of sulphur dioxide in one hour on Sunday exceeding its allocated emissions limit by a factor of ten to one. Excess emissions occurred during an upset on the Sulfur Plant Thermal Oxidizer Exxon said in the report. The unit was stabilized. No impact to the community has been reported the company said. Actions were taken to minimize emissions and to restore the refinery to normal operations. Petrochemical giant Chevron Phillips reported an estimated 776000 pounds of combined chemicals released from its Cedar Bayou plant in Baytown as part of its plant shutdown. Kinder Morgan the largest energy infrastructure company in North America stores petroleum products for companies such as Chevron and Shell at its terminal in Pasadena Harris. It reported 394000 pounds of combined hazardous chemicals on Sunday and Monday also as a result of a malfunctioning floating roof. In this case it caused product to spill to the ground. Kinder Morgan said it will attempt to safely land roof of Tank 150 39 and remove product when conditions are safe. It added it was taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment. Almost one third of US oil refining capacity is located on the Gulf Coast. The US produces about 17.5 million barrels of oil per day. According to oil market analysts cited by CNBC about 20 percent of the countrys oil refining operations are out of service. Ships carrying crude oil from the Mexican Gulf are not able to port in the area due to swelling waters caused by Harvey resulting in a backlog of ships waiting to dock and unload their cargo. The Gulf of Mexico accounts for close to 20 percent of total US crude oil production. CNBC estimates the port closures cost roughly 350 million a day. The port hold up also affects the amount of crude oil refineries have access to once they return to full operation. Gas prices across the US have already risen to a two year high with the increase likely to hit consumers at the pump in a week. It is unknown how long the refineries will remain out of production as the extent of flood damage is not yet known. Following Hurricane Katrina in 2005 refineries in the area didnt return to normal production capacity for two months.	False	False	False	True	False
Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audiences eyes at the climate change town hall literally as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half truths and excuses. The former Vice President was clearly floundering during CNNs climate change town hall on Wednesday which saw him face off against eight other Democrats. Viewers called him out for rambling incoherent answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry. Then his left eye began filling up with blood. At around the same time his campaign cautioned voters not to turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines an ironic coincidence or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event? Before Bidens eye exploded the audience had been raking him over the coals for a scheduled fundraiser the following night at the home of a natural gas executive. The three time candidate has never been particularly committed to green issues slammed by environmental groups for not having a climate change policy he finally released one in June that contained several plagiarized items. But he had along with most of the other Democratic candidates promised not to take money from the fossil fuel industry a promise the fundraiser seemed to break to viewers dismay. But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye. Look Biden haters sometimes your eye is gonna spontaneously fill up with blood okay one user joked. Twitter furiously deploying algorithms to keep Bidens bloody corpse eye from trending observed another it appeared to work while was trending and variations thereof were noticeably not. Apparently it wasnt even the first time Bidens eye has filled up with blood during an important political event. But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment. Not sure after tonight who has less time to live Biden or the planet said one. Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding commented another. I give it 14 minutes before Bidens campaign says his bloody eye was because of climate change predicted another. Meanwhile others made the inevitable comparisons to Hillary Clinton another candidate with a marked enthusiasm gap between donors and voters who has run for president and lost before yet is propped up by the media as the surefire winner. And some took time out from gawking to worry about his health since political speeches dont normally cause visible injury. Does Biden have a blood clot in his left eye? wondered one user. This cant be good news given his health history noted another. Like this story? Share it with a friend!	True	True	False	True	True
In his five months as EPA Administrator former Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt is an aggregating impeachable offense ever giving fuller meaning to Alexander Hamiltons Federalist 65 elaboration of what constitutes high crimes and misdemeanors to wit Impeachable offenses arise from the abuse or violation of some public trust and relate chiefly to injuries done immediately to the society itself. Riding into office on the back of 14 lawsuits he filed against the EPA Pruitt took his oath of office to uphold the laws of the land and promptly proceeded to do just the opposite. Using the mantra of states rights as his corporate fig leaf and wildly accusing EPA scientists of being unscientific he has moved to undo delay or otherwise block more than 30 environmental rules according to the July 1 2017 New York Times. His tenure thus far at the EPA is the stuff of corporate wish lists meeting privately with the worst industrial perpetrators of silent violence charitably described as pollution and huddling with industry lobbyists and corporate lawyers who are eager for Pruitt to dismantle his own agency the federal manager of environmental violence to air water soil and food. Mr. Pruitt makes himself vulnerable with all the ex parte contacts and corporate advisors to many serious offenses including a violation of the procedures of the Federal Advisory Committee Act b conflict of interest rules c violation of both criminal and civil laws by the overreaching industry lobbyists who constitute Pruitts tight cadre of clenched jawed political appointees. History provides precedents of how the boundless zealotry of new wrecking crews ultimately leads to self inflicted wounds and scandals. Republicans in the House of Representatives are quite familiar with trying to impeach a civil officer. For many months prior to the November election they were hounding with baseless impeachment threats John Koskinen then director of the IRS and one of the most honorable civil servants in a generation. So fervid and ill tempered was their partisan zeal that they also took it out on the IRSs budget already lower than it was several years earlier and cut it further to the bone. This fulminating vendetta widely reported has led to millions of taxpayers waiting on the phone with the IRS to get served or not be served at all. Most ironically the Republicans assured that the woefully understaffed IRS could collect even less of the estimated 350 billion in annual unpaid taxes thereby expanding the federal deficit they so often decry for political expediency. Pruitt like most captured corporatists has ignored the objections to his policies from the 15000 employees of the EPA hoping that many will leave the agency and further weaken the environmental health and safety efforts that he abhors. He doesnt want them around because he cannot rebut their scientific arguments for retaining existing standards which would protect our environment from deadly toxins. He is also hostile to the precautionary principle which shifts the burden of proof to the progenitors of new chemical or particulate or gas into the environment. When you go through the list of health standards slated for Pruitts abolition you wonder whether there are any limits to his cold blooded corporatized agenda. So extreme is his corporate ardor that there will undoubtedly be lawless actions coming from his precipitous acts which he rightly believes will not be subject to restraint from the Trump White House or the Republican controlled Congress. Pruitts fevered mind thinks like this Climate change is a hoax. Methane gas which is 40 times more harmful to global warming than carbon dioxide should not be subject to the modest Obama era required disclosures. The industries that are most responsible for pollution should be in charge of their own enforcement. The EPAs already grossly inadequate budget should be cut further. Attempts to curb pollution in our air and waterways should be revoked. Pesticides like chlorpyrifos found to be dangerous after years of study should be pushed back for reconsideration in short to be shelved. Rules on methane leaks from drilling oil and gas wells should be obstructed through delays or revision. Pruitt had a private meeting with corporate lobbyists at Trump International Hotel which is a venue for recurring violations of the Emoluments Clause due to its Trump enriching expenditures by foreign interests. Thats when you know that the officious Pruitt doesnt even care about appearances much less the perils of lawless and secretive influence peddling that enriches President Trumps investments. Members of Congress Democratic and Republican must ensure accountability for this rogue administrator. Take close note of his non compliance with the Administrative Procedure Act and keep in mind that political ideologies will not protect your children or vulnerable relatives and friends form environmental toxins. Conservative lungs and other bodily organs are as vulnerable to pollution bred terminal ailments and the violent effects of climate change as their liberal counterparts. Lets be clear about what is at issue here. Pruitt is extinguishing life saving and disease preventing health standards that were vetted in open procedures that were open to input by the commercial interested affected which usually leads to diluting the final regulation and which have solid scientific basis to protect vulnerable populations. Consequently Pruitts rollbacks suspensions or delays if allowed to persist and expand will lead loss and deprivation of American lives including children the future of our country thereby increasing healthcare costs family anguish and other disruptions of life liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Pruitt and his cohorts are a clear and present danger to America. He will demonstrate in the coming weeks and months how deserving he is of impeachment in the House of Representatives and conviction in the U.S. Senate. That is if he doesnt resign or be forced to resign due to his own cruelty recklessness and running afoul of the law.	False	False	True	True	False
Lawsuits are a poor way to make the tradeoff between abundant energy and environmental harm. Numerous jurisdictions are suing energy companies. Not for fraud or white collar crime but for the effects of climate change. Bill de Blasio mayor of New York recently added his city to the list and also started to divest the citys pension funds from fossil fuel companies. But the phenomenon is primarily a California centric one. In an address at SXSW earlier this month even Arnold Schwarzenegger joined the fray. Presumably this will soon be a cause clbre. But it is unlikely to succeed and lawsuits are a poor way to address the environmental harms of energy production anyhow. As David Bookbinder at the Niskanen Center notes while all of the complaints are grounded in the energy companies alleged accountability for rising sea levels they fall into two essential categories. San Francisco and Oakland allege public nuisance and are suing to win compensation for that nuisance. This is the usual category for environmental harm suits the same legal theory by which localities have sued over lead pollution water pollution and the like. It was also the basis for the successful legal action taken against lead paint producers in the same area. According to Bookbinder the claim simply requires demonstrating that the defendant contributed to a condition that constitutes an unreasonable interference with public rights. The other plaintiffs namely San Mateo County Marin County and Imperial Beach are employing a much more scattershot strategy not only in the number of defendants that they name nearly 40 but in alleging design defect failure to warn negligence and trespass in addition to public nuisance. This approach gives juries multiple routes to a ruling against the energy companies but it could backfire with so many claims being made against such a wide variety of defendants that none of the blows really land. So whats the problem? The Union of Concerned Scientists the activist group that has spearheaded this push for legal action has compared energy companies behavior with that of tobacco companies decades ago. The comparison reveals two fundamental issues with the suits. First unlike smoking energy is a basic good. Some form of energy is necessary to do just about anything including to meet essential needs such as heating or cooling a home which in some places is a genuine safety issue. There is an inherent tradeoff between affordable energy and environmental harm and it makes no sense to ask judges and juries rather than elected legislators to strike the right balance. Second a key allegation against cigarette companies was that they hid and denied the harms of smoking but the parallel allegations against the energy companies are contradictory. We are expected to believe that energy companies covered up the damage done by fossil fuels and yet publicly available industry funded research is cited as evidence that the companies were aware of the harms they were causing. For instance San Mateo Countys lawsuit notes that Exxon made its climate findings public in peer reviewed science journals by 1982. Another obstacle is the fact that energy companies have government granted permits to do what they do a fact that some courts have found highly relevant. In North Carolina v. Tennessee Valley Authority the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit dismissed a common law nuisance action on the grounds that there is a distinction between an activity that is merely not illegal versus one that is explicitly granted a permit to operate in a particular fashion. The opinion further notes citing New England Legal Foundation v. Costle that courts traditionally have been reluctant to enjoin as a public nuisance activities which have been considered and specifically authorized by the government. Local lawsuits also struggle to address the global scope of the climate change problem. According to a study that is often drawn upon to make the case for liability the two largest contributors to the rise in CO2 emissions since 1980 are Saudi Aramco and Gazprom the state owned oil companies of Saudi Arabia and Russia. The initial San Mateo suit did name Statoil a company majority owned by the Norwegian government as a defendant but even this was dropped in an effort to keep the case in state as opposed to federal court. As the eminent legal scholar Richard Epstein puts it If youre going to need a system of regulation you can do that in a thousand different ways but erratic independent lawsuits in separate courts by separate people is the wrong way to go. This approach is likely to cause backlash that derails real sustainable reforms to protect the environment.	True	True	True	True	True
Young students across the world plan to skip class on Friday claiming that they will devote the day to protesting man made climate change. Students from more than 70 countries will skip class on Friday March 15 to demand that their governments take more action on addressing climate change according to a youth led movement that is behind the strike. Tens of thousands of students will reportedly take part in the event. We will no longer accept this injustice. We demand justice for all past current and future victims of the climate crisis and so we are rising up read an open letter that the activists published on the Guardian claiming they would be protesting on every continent on Friday. Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world. Now we will make our voices heard. 350.org an international environmental group is helping bolster the strike with its own promotional video. Activists are hoping to closely mirror the youth led March For Our Lives protests in Washington D.C. which took place nearly a year ago following the fatal Parkland Florida school shooting and spark more debate among lawmakers about the dangers of climate change. Activists in the U.S. are making similar demands that are found in Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs Green New Deal a swift transition to 100 percent renewable energy a complete abolition of fossil fuels and other environmental mandates. The group strongly references the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes 2018 report which claims the world only has a few year to dramatically reduce carbon emissions or else face dire environmental consequences. RELATEDThousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests We have the right to live our dreams and hopes the letter continues. Climate change is already happening. People did die are dying and will die because of it but we can and will stop this madness. The protesters in Washington D.C. will enjoy the presence of one well known adult figure Minnesota Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar. The freshman Democrat who has made national headlines recently for a slew of anti Semitic remarks says she will attend the strike along with her 16 year old daughter Isra Hirsi an organizer of the protest. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	False	True	False	False
A federal judge blocked construction on the Keystone XL pipeline on Thursday. In a 54 page decision Judge Brian Morris of the U.S. District Court in Montana granted an injunction to the Indigenous Environmental Network and Northern Plains Resource Council against the U.S. State Department the TransCanada Keystone Pipeline and the TransCanada Corporation. TransCanada is blocked from engaging in any activity in furtherance of the construction or operation of Keystone and associated facilities until the State Department can confirm that doing so would not violate the Administrative Procedure Act or the National Environmental Policy Act. Morris had ruled in August that the State Department had to reach a conclusion on the environmental impacts of the pipeline but determined Thursday that the departments analysis had left out information he considered to be crucial.He also accused the State Department of usingoutdated information about potential environmental impacts instead ofthe best scientific and commercial data available. These omissions require a remand with instructions to the Department to satisfy its obligations under NEPA Morris wrote. In its initial report the State Department had said that any climate related impacts from the pipeline would prove inconsequential. However Morris argued that the department had not given areasoned explanation for how it came to this conclusion. TransCanada has claimed that the pipeline would result in few oil spills by decreasing the amount of oil being transported by rail and lower greenhouse gas emissions by lowering the amount of oil being transported by ocean tanker. If constructed the Keystone XL Pipeline would stretch from Hardisty Alberta to Nebraska where it would connect to an existing pipeline going to the Gulf Coast. In November 2015 former President Barack Obamas administration blocked the pipelines construction citing potential environmental impact. Two days after taking office President Donald Trump signed an executive order reauthorizing the pipeline.	False	False	False	True	False
Donald Trump is threatening to derail climate change efforts with his persistent denial of global warming claim scientists. Pulling the US from the Paris Agreement has opened the flood gates as several others including Russia and Turkey follow his lead. Trump removed the US the second greatest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the world from the Paris Agreement as one of his first major presidential acts. One expert has published a study and said that the withdrawal of the US from the 2015 Paris Agreement as well as Trump's ill informed remarks on climate change could have long lasting and severe ramifications. AUnited Nations sponsored climate summit in Poland has kicked off today which brings together experts from around the world as leading figures in the UN claim our planet has reached a 'crossroads'. They say the next two years are crucial to our success if we are to successfully halt global warming. A study fromthe Institute of International and European Affairs says Trump's decision has created the 'moral and political cover for others to follow suit' in leaving the agreement. It also claims it has soured the atmosphere and damaged goodwill in the international arena. 'The Paris agreement sent a shiver down the spine of institutional investors globally and made them question if they were exposed to stranded assets and whether these political leaders were really serious about climate change' saidJoseph Curtin a senior fellow at the IIEA. 'There's absolutely no doubt that the Trump effect has created a sense of uncertainty in terms of the political commitment to achieve anything close to a 2C target.' The Paris Agreement which was first signed in 2015 is an international agreement to control and limit climate change. It hopes to hold the increase in the global average temperature to below 2C 3.6F 'and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C 2.7F' Sir David Attenborough will be in attendance in the 'people's seat' to represent the people who are affected by global warming. He gave a speech at the opening ceremony of the summit and said We are facing a man made disaster of global scale. 'Our greatest threat in thousands of years. Climate Change.' The Conference of the Parties COP comes shortly after the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC announced the intention to limitglobal temperature rise to 1.5C. This gathering has been pegged as the most influential since the 2015 ratification of the Paris Agreement. It claimed that to achieve this goal governments around the worldwould have to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 45 per cent by 2030. Four influential previous presidents of the talks called for decisive action to reach these targets. They said the planet sits at a 'crossroads' and urged action to cut emissions and reach Paris targets. Antonio Guterres UN Secretary General said this period of time is'a matter of life and death' for countries around the world. A statement from the former chiefs came a day before the summit was scheduled to begin and is a highly unusual move. It earmarked the next two years as a key opportunity to help halt climate change. It read 'What ministers and other leaders say and do in Katowice at COP24 will help determine efforts for years to come and either bring the world closer to meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement including protecting those most vulnerable to climate change or push action further down the road. 'Any delay will only make it harder and more expensive to respond to climate change.' The statement was issued by Frank Bainimarama of Fiji Salaheddine Mezouar of Morocco Laurent Fabius of France and Manuel Pulgar Vidal of Peru. In a report released ahead of the climate summit in Poland the World Meteorological Organisation WMO pointed out that the 20 warmest years on record have been in the past 22 years. It found that 2018 is on course to be the 4th warmest year on record and we're the 'last generation to be able to do something about it'. The UN agency said in its provisional report that 'the past four years 2015 2016 2017 and 2018 are also the four warmest years in the series'.	True	False	False	True	True
The EPAs decision was not unexpected. During the 2016 presidential campaign Trump said the United States faces numerous problems more important than climate change and he pledged to eliminate environmental policies hampering economic growth and domestic energy development targeting the CPP by name. As part of Trumps March 28 Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth executive order Trump directed EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt to review CPP and rescind or revise it if necessary to promote the wise development of natural resources unencumber energy production and increase jobs. The EPA based the decision to rescind CPP on three main principles CPP is inconsistent with the 1970 Clean Air Act CPP violated states authority to decide the best mix of power generation within their borders and eroded longstanding federalstate partnerships necessary to achieve environmental improvement and enforcement of CPP would have had a devastating effect on jobs and raised energy costs for consumersall while having virtually no effect on climate change. CPP was the centerpiece of the Obama administrations effort to move the United States away from the use of fossil fuels beginning with coal to fight climate change. CPP would require states to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030 on average. To comply with the plan states would have to force utilities to shutter dozens of coal fired power plants prematurely. The Energy Information Administration projected CPP would result in 1.23 trillion in lost gross domestic product GDP in 2014 dollars from 2020 to 2030 with an average annual GDP loss of 112 billion. Estimates indicate CPP would boost peoples electric bills 1114 percent per year and cost more than 100000 jobs in manufacturing and other sectors annually. Despite these substantial harms the Obama administration acknowledged in testimony before the U.S. House Committee on Science Space and Technology on July 9 2015 that if the United States met CPPs emission reductions targets it would prevent at best one one hundredth ofone degree Celsius of temperature rise by 2100. Talk about all pain and no gain! Twenty seven states led by West Virginia and several industry groups and trade associations challenged CPPs legality in federal court. In February 2016 the U.S. Supreme Court took the unprecedented step of ordering a nationwide stay on implementation of CPP before it went into effect pending the outcome of the legal challenges. CPP would have dramatically raised energy costs in United States harming the poorest among us more than the rest and putting U.S. industries at a competitive disadvantage in the global economy. By rescinding it Trump is doing what he promised to do and what any president should do putting America first. Bravo! Having said this unless Trump wants these gains to unravel he has at least one more step to take. Environmental groups and some state government officials have already announced that if the CPP rescission is finalized they will sue to block the Trump administrations action to keep CPP on the books. In truth this presents a problem for Trump. CPP and the other climate regulations imposed by the Obama administration were justified based on the EPAs determination carbon dioxide poses a threat to human health and the environment a concept known as the endangerment finding. Relying on unsubstantiated projections produced by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change the EPA determined carbon dioxide emissions from cars and industry threaten human welfare. To solidify his CPP action and other climate deregulatory efforts Trump must direct the EPA to reconsider the endangerment finding by forcing the agency to demonstratethrough independent validated researchcarbon dioxide emissions are toxic they arent at any foreseeable levels or that global warming is causing measurable amounts of sea level rise increased hurricane numbers or intensity the spread of disease or other harms attributable directly to carbon dioxide emissions in the United States. If the EPA cant directly link such problems to U.S. carbon dioxide emissions it cant or cant show that such problems can be dramatically reduced by cutting U.S. carbon dioxide emissions they wont the EPA should withdraw the endangerment finding. Withdrawing the endangerment finding would eliminate the legal justification that has been used to impose a wide range of climate regulations. In the process it would also end radical environmental activists ability to use the courts to impose policies on an unwilling publicone whose elected representatives have repeatedly rejected climate alarmism. H. Sterling Burnett Ph.D. hburnett is a research fellow on energy and the environment at The Heartland Institute a nonpartisan nonprofit research center headquartered in Arlington Heights Illinois.	False	False	False	True	True
Last week a federal judgedismissedNew York Citys climate change lawsuit against five major oil companies. Last month another federal judgedismissedsimilar global warming claims against oil firms brought by San Francisco and Oakland. More than a dozen climate lawsuits filed during the last year by cities and counties seek billions of dollars in damages from oil and gas companies. But it appears that all of these lawsuits will eventually be thrown out. New York Citysoughtmonetary damages from BP Chevron Conoco Phillips ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell as compensation for damage caused by dangerous global warming allegedly caused by the companies. But John F. Keenan District Court judge for the Southern District of New York disagreed and dismissed the complaint. Judge Keenanruledthat it would thus be illogical to allow the City to bring state law claims when courts have found that these matters are areas of federal concern that have been delegated to the Executive Branch as they require a uniform national solutionGlobal warming and solutions thereto must be addressed by the other two branches of government. On June 25 on the west coast US District Judge William Alsupthrewout similar suits brought by the California cities of Oakland and San Francisco. Judge Alsup stated it is true that carbon dioxide released from fossil fuels has caused and will continue to cause global warming. But against that negative we must weigh this positive Our industrial revolution and the development of our modern world have literally been fueled by oil and coal. Without those fuels virtually all of our monumental progress would have been impossible. Judge Alsup concluded that the courts should defer to the legislative and executive branches. Note that Judge Alsup is not a conservative judge. Alsup was nominated by President Bill Clinton in 1999. In January he blocked Trump Administration efforts to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals DACA program. Several other climate lawsuits arependingin California. In July of last year San Mateo County Marin County and Imperial Beach filed separate suits against 37 oil and gas companies in California Superior Court. Last December Santa Cruz and Santa Cruz County also brought suits in California Superior Court against 29 companies. In January the City of Richmond California and the County of Contra Costa also filed claims against 29 companies. Other state entities alsoinitiatedlegal action this year. In April the city of Boulder Boulder County and San Miguel County filed a suit in Colorado against Exxon and Suncor. In May King County Washington the home of Seattle filed suit against five companies. Just this month the state of Rhode Island and the City of Baltimore filed separate climate change suits against oil and gas companies. But all of these suits are likely to be thrown out. The New York City and the OaklandSan Francisco suits the lawsuits with the highest profile have now been dismissed. As Judge Alsupnotedin his opinion No plaintiff has ever succeeded in bringing a nuisance claim based on global warming. All district or appellate courts are likely to eventually rule that climate change issues are to be decided by the federal government not state and local governments. Its clear that climate lawsuits do notreflectthe will of congressional representatives elected by the American people. In December of 1998 President Bill Clinton signed the Kyoto Protocol a 1997 international treaty signed by 192 nations committing to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But the US Senate passed a resolution of disapproval with a vote of 95 0 so the treaty was never submitted to the Senate for ratification. Cap and trade legislation was rejected by Congress in 2003 2005 2007 and 2009. Last week the US House of Representativespasseda resolution opposing a carbon tax. While advocates of climate common sense are pleased with the recent court decisions the acceptance that humans are causing dangerous climate change by the oil and gas defendants is very disappointing. Evidenceshowsthat natural factors not emissions from industry dominate global temperatures. Nor are the feared climate disasters happening. Evidenceshowsthat storms droughts or floods are neither more frequent nor more severe than in past decades. Oceans are rising 7 8 inches per century not the 20 feet per centurypredictedby former Vice President Al Gore and others. And the polar bears are doing just fine. A simple example is the question of snow extent. The Boulder Colorado lawsuitallegesthat warming caused by oil companies is reducing the snowpack in Colorado mountains. While some areas have received less snow satellite data from the Rutgers University Global Snow labshowsthat both North American and Northern Hemisphere snow extent has been increasing for the last 40 years. Like most efforts to fight climate change climate lawsuits are a massive waste of taxpayer money. Cities counties and states are spending millions of dollars on futile public nuisance lawsuits that are doomed to failure. SteveGorehamis a speaker on the environment business and public policy and author of thebookOutside the Green Box Rethinking Sustainable Development. The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	True	True	False	True	False
Washington CNN Since the Trump administration released its blockbuster report on the day after Thanksgiving outlining the dire environmental and economic impacts of climate change it has made a series of policy and diplomatic decisions or statements that appear to run counter to all of the warnings in the report. In fact none are designed to reduce fossil fuel emissions which the report said is needed to combat extreme climate change which otherwise will cause substantial damages to the US economy environment and human health and well being over the coming decades. President Donald Trump who previously has called climate change a hoax has rejected the report's conclusion that climate change could be devastating for the economy saying I don't believe it. Here's what the administration has said and done since Thanksgiving EPA acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler said the carbon capture technology required by the Obama era made constructing new power plants too expensive. But the decline of coal for power plants has been a long term trend regardless as the energy industry has moved to less expensive sources such as natural gas. Environmentalists worry the proposed rule suggests the EPA will set new standards that would weaken the requirements that the agency uses to regulate other types of pollution. The administration may be trying to lower the bar significantly for future new sources of pollution that the EPA tries to regulate said Mary Anne Hitt senior director of the Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign. Sides with Russia Saudi Arabia and Kuwait at climate conference Considering Trump announced the US would walk away from the Paris climate agreement which brought together the rest of the world it's no surprise the US continues to be an outlier on the international stage. Countries were asked to welcome the report put out by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change which says governments around the world must take rapid far reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society to avoid disastrous levels of global warming. The US and the three other nations sided against welcoming the measure. The United States was willing to note the report and express appreciation to the scientists who developed it but not to welcome it as that would denote endorsement of the report the State Department said in a statement. As we have made clear in the IPCC and other bodies the United States has not endorsed the findings of the report it added. At the recent G20 meeting in Argentina which came just days after the release of that dire climate report US diplomats insisted on noting that the US reaffirmed its intention to withdraw from the Paris accord. A clause in a communique signed by the member nations says the US reiterates its decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and affirms its strong commitment to economic growth and energy access and security utilizing all energy sources and technologies while protecting the environment. When the US Geological Survey last week announced a major discovery of oil and natural gas underneath Texas and New Mexico Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke called it a gift. Christmas came a few weeks early this year he said. American strength flows from American energy and as it turns out we have a lot of American energy. Zinke's position involves the dual and sometimes competing roles of overseeing leases to develop resources such as oil natural gas and minerals and preserving federal lands for wildlife and human recreational uses. The Interior Department proposed to cut protections that benefited the sage grouse a grassland bird that lives in the Great Plains and western states which could allow for expanded oil and drilling. The plan would remove protections on nearly 9 million acres of protected habitat. The oil industry says any impacts minimal because of improved technology and more limited footprint needed for exploration.	True	False	False	True	False
President Trumps claim that Californias environmental policies are preventing firefighters from accessing enough water to stop the states wildfires has been roundly dismissed by experts and state officials. Windy conditions and high heat expanded the Mendocino Complex Fire to 290692 acresby Tuesday morning making it the largest wildfire in the states history destroying some 75 homes and forcing thousands to evacuate. Seven other major wildfires are burning in California from Shasta County to San Bernardino County at the same time. Trump made the dubious claim that readily available water is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean for environmental reasons and blamed California Gov. Jerry Brown in a series of tweets. California wildfires are being magnified made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which arent allowing massive amounts of readily available water to be properly utilized. It is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire from spreading! Trump tweeted on Monday. Yahoo News reached out to Scott McLean a deputy chief at the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection Cal Fire to get the agencys take on Trumps claims and whats actually happening in the efforts to stop the Mendocino Complex and other wildfires. He outright rejected the assertion that firefighters do not have enough water to handle the current wildfires. No that is untrue. There are bodies of water. There are lakes near the Carr Fire the Shasta Lake the Whiskeytown Lake thats surrounded by the fire Trinity Lake we have plenty of water Sacramento River is just to the east McLean said. On your Mendocino Complex its wrapped around Clear Lake. Its got Mendocino Lake Berryessa Lake and it has a river close by so there are absolutely no water issues. We asked why Trump was saying that the states water is being redirecting into the ocean and where that idea originated. I cannot speak to that. I dont know what hes getting at. I have no idea McLean said. He added that Californias water policy has had no effect to our water supply. On top of calling climate change a hoax Trump has been critical of the U.S. Forest Services forest fire prevention campaign with Smokey Bear. Kate Poole the senior director of the Natural Resources Defense Councils NRDC water division said its hard to know where to begin in responding to Trumps tweets because theyre fundamentally wrong on many levels. She said the firefighters have plenty of water adding that the fires are a manifestation of the effects of climate change. These fires are what it means in the West to live with higher temperatures less snowpack and more frequent and intense droughts. All of those problems are a result of climate change. Wheres the presidents outrage about that? Wed even settle for a coherent policy to tackle it rather than make it worse Poole told Yahoo News. She said Trump in complaining about water diverted to the Pacific seems to not understand that rivers flow downhill toward the ocean. On the contrary she said California diverts so much water from its natural path and into artificial canals that many miles of rivers have dried up completely. She said this caused ecological collapse in the San Francisco Bay Delta estuary the largest estuary on the west coast of the Americas.	True	False	False	True	True
Global warming activist Greta Thunberg has trolled President Trump after he told the teen to 'chill' and 'work on her anger management problems'. The 16 year old who was named Time magazine's 'Person of The Year' updated her Twitter bio on Thursday to read 'A teenager working on her anger management problem. Currently chilling and watching a good old fashioned movie with a friend.' Her bio was a verbatim echo of Trump's tweet about her earlier in the day in which he reacted to news that the publication had awarded the accolade to Thunberg instead of him. 'So ridiculous' the Commander in chief wrote. 'Greta must work on her Anger Management problem then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend! Chill Greta Chill!' Thousands of Twitter users rushed to applaud Thunberg after she changed her bio to mock the President. Many praised the teenager for outmaneuvering Trump on Twitter who is widely seen as one of the platform's most skillful and effective users. By lunchtime the hashtag was trending on the social media platform with one popular response reading 'A 16 year old with Asperger's and non native English speaker has better social and communications skills than the current President of the United States. And better Twitter game.' Another wrote 'Interesting how a leader that acts like a child is yelling at a child who acts like a leader'. It's not the first time Thunberg has used her Twitter bio to deftly turn Trump's attacks back around. In September Greta described herself as a 'very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future' after the President sarcastically said of her UN Speech 'She seems like a very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future. So nice to see.' Meanwhile the President insists he wasn't petty about losing out as Time magazine's person of the year. When asked Wednesday if the White House had a comment about the Commander in chief losing the honor to Thunberg White House Principal Deputy Press Secretary Hogan Gidley emailed DailyMail.com 'Huh?!?' Thunberg is the magazine's youngest ever Person of the Year a title that still sparks Internet curiosity one day each year despite the steep decline of magazine sales. The teen girl with Asperger's syndrome is the face of the youth climate movement drawing large crowds with her appearances at protests and conferences since last year. Her angry accusations that world leaders are failing the younger generation have made headlines including her shouts of 'How dare you?' during the UN General Assembly this year. An image of her staring at Donald Trump as he entered the UN quickly became a social media meme. Trump has said he doesn't believe global warming is mainly caused by humans. During the 2016 campaign he claimed it was a 'hoax' promoted by China in order to gain economic advantage over the United States. The president has since withdrawn the U.S. from the Paris Climate Treaty. Time editor in chief Edward Felsenthal told the Today show 'She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement.' Politicians have mostly praised Thunberg and her movement as an important voice of her generation. Former Vice President Al Gore said Wednesday 'Brilliant decision for to choose as its Person of the Year. 'Greta embodies the moral authority of the youth activist movement demanding that we act immediately to solve the climate crisis. She is an inspiration to me and to people across the world' Gore said. Felsenthal said Thunberg 'represents a broader generational shift in the culture' adding 'She embodies youth activism.' The magazine says 'In the 16 months since she has addressed heads of state at the U.N. met with the Pope sparred with the President of the United States and inspired 4 million people to join the global climate strike on September 20 2019 in what was the largest climate demonstration in human history.' 'For sounding the alarm about humanity's predatory relationship with the only home we have for bringing to a fragmented world a voice that transcends backgrounds and borders for showing us all what it might look like when a new generation leads Greta Thunberg is TIME's 2019 Person of the Year' the media franchise said Wednesday on its website.	True	False	False	False	False
The Trump administration has escalated its fight with California over environmental regulations. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Andrew Wheeler sent a letter Monday to the California Air Resources Board threatening to withdraw billions of dollars in federal highway money unless the state clears a backlog of air pollution control plans. California has the worst air quality in the United States with 82 nonattainment areas and 34 million people living in areas that do not meet National Ambient Air Quality Standards Wheeler wrote. California's population topography weather and other factors do worsen air pollution there but the state also is widely recognized as a leader in improving air quality. Under the Clean Air Act states that don't meet federal air quality standards are required to submit State Implementation Plans. Wheeler says California represents a disproportionate share of the backlog of such plans. Since the 1970s California has failed to carry out its most basic tasks under the Clean Air Act said Wheeler. He then laid out the penalties for failing to meet federal requirements which include losing federal highway dollars. California is expected to receive about 8 billion in fiscal years 2019 and 2020. The Trump administration has been picking fights with California over environmental regulations recently. Last week the administration said it will revoke a waiver that allows California to set stricter car emission standards. A senior EPA official said the two actions were not linked and that California is the focus now because it represents the largest share of backlogged plans. Even though other states have similar backlogs the administration has not sent letters to them. Gov. Gavin Newsom has been critical of President Trump's environmental record and challenged the administration in court. Newsom called Wheeler's letter a brazen political stunt. The White House has no interest in helping California comply with the Clean Air Act to improve the health and well being of Californians. This letter is a threat of pure retaliation Newsom says. Former EPA officials say they were surprised Wheeler sent the letter to California. I just think it's so ironic that the EPA is chastising California which has been so progressive in working towards cleaner air more than any other place in the country says Janet McCabe who was an EPA official during the Obama administration and now directs Indiana University's Environmental Resilience Institute. McCabe says it's unusual for the EPA to publicly criticize a state in this way. She says typically the agency would communicate with a state privately and work out differences to encourage a cooperative rather than adversarial relationship.	False	True	False	True	False
The US Environmental Protection Agencys main climate change website is undergoing changes to better reflect the agencys new direction under Donald Trump. The announcement made late on Friday evening left empty what was previously the official government site providing comprehensive information on the issue of climate change and global warming. The change came a day before thousands gathered in Washington DC and other US cities to protest about inaction on climate change and hours before the symbolic 100 day mark of the Trump administration. At the marquee climate protest the Peoples Climate March in Washington tens of thousands made their way down Pennsylvania Avenue in sweltering heat on their way to encircle the White House. Organizers said about 300 sister marches or rallies were being held around the country including in Seattle Boston and San Francisco. In Chicago marchers headed from the citys federal plaza to Trump Tower. In Denver marchers were met with a dose of spring snow. Some of the marches drew celebrity attendees including former vice president Al Gore and actor Leonardo DiCaprio in the capital and senator and former candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination Bernie Sanders at an event in Montpelier Vermont. Honored to join Indigenous leaders and native peoples as they fight for climate justice DiCaprio tweeted. Any marchers who used their phones to look at the EPA climate change website would have been greeted with a message from the new administration This page is being updated. As EPA renews its commitment to human health and clean air land and water our website needs to reflect the views of the leadership of the agency said JP Freire an associate administrator for public affairs. Previously the website housed data on greenhouse gas emissions from large polluters and reports on the effects of climate change and its impact on human health. We want to eliminate confusion Freire said by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how were protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law. Information from previous administrations is archived as a link from the EPAs website. The EPA is currently led by Scott Pruitt a former Oklahoma attorney general who has denied that carbon dioxide causes global warming. The Trump administration has called for budget cuts of nearly one third at the EPA and has sought to weaken protections for human health. For instance the White House has proposed cutting funding and regulations regarding lead poisoning prevention and is considering rewriting regulations concerning smog. It has already rolled back a law that prevented coalmining companies from dumping waste in streams. In an op ed piece for the Guardian published on Saturday Sanders made an economic case for a focus on industries meant to ameliorate the effects of climate change rather than those which contribute to it. The senator from Vermont wrote No matter what agenda President Trump and his administration of climate deniers push it is clear that jobs in clean energy like wind and solar are growing much more rapidly than jobs in the coal oil and gas sectors.	True	True	False	False	False
Proponents of the theory humans are primarily responsible for rising global temperatures long claimed wildlife are harmed significantly by global warming and that unless mankind stops producing significant amounts of carbon dioxide emissions the worlds animals will not be able to thrive. While rising temperatures have certainly put a strain on species in some parts of the world a new study by researchers at the University of Southern Denmark suggests animals in the Arctic region are thriving as because of higher global temperatures. According to a press release touting the studys new findings warmer conditions have produced a larger number of life sustaining melt ponds in Arctic waters. Melt ponds provide more light and heat for the ice and the underlying water but now it turns out that they may also have a more direct and potentially important influence on life in the Arctic waters stated the press release. Mats of algae and bacteria can evolve in the melt ponds which can provide food for marine creatures. This is the conclusion of researchers in the periodical Polar Biology the press release said. The researchers said nutrients are able to reach sea creatures in the Arctic more easily because of the melt ponds. Climate change is accompanies by more storms and more precipitation and we must expect that more nutrients will be released from the surroundings into the melt ponds said Professor Ronnie Glud of the Department of Biology at SDU. These conditions plus the fact that the distribution of areas of melt ponds is increasing can contribute to increased productivity in plant and animal life in the Arctic seas. Recent data released by scientists at NASA and the National Snow and Ice Data Center reveals sea ice in the Arctic and Antarctic regions are at their lowest recorded point since 1979 when satellite data first started estimating sea ice. About 2 million square km of Arctic sea ice are estimated to have been lost since 1979. Current data suggest about 14.28 million square km of sea ice remain. USA Today recently declared the loss of sea ice terrifying but global warming skeptics have long suggested these claims are overblown when put into perspective. As reported by Anthony Watts on his influential climate change website Watts Up With That the president of the Royal Society in London reported in 1817 significant reductions to arctic sea ice. It will without doubt have come to your Lordships knowledge that a considerable change of climate inexplicable at present to us must have taken place in the Circumpolar Regions by which the severity of the cold that has for centuries past enclosed the seas in the high northern latitudes in an impenetrable barrier of ice has been during the last two years greatly abated. this affords ample proof that new sources of warmth have been opened and give us leave to hope that the Arctic Seas may at this time be more accessible than they have been for centuries past and that discoveries may now be made in them not only interesting to the advancement of science but also to the future intercourse of mankind and the commerce of distant nations.	False	False	False	True	False
Much of Venice was left under water this week after the highest tide in 50 years ripped through the historic Italian city AFP PhotoFilippo MONTEFORTE Venice AFP Italy on Thursday declared a state of emergency for Venice after an exceptional tide surged through churches shops and homes causing millions of euros worth of damage to the UNESCO city. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said the cabinet had approved the state of emergency and ordered the immediate release of 20 million euros 22 million in funds for the most urgent interventions in the devastated city after Tuesday's flooding. Despite the emergency tourists larked around in the flooded St Mark's Square in the sunshine snapping selfies in their neon plastic boots and taking advantage of a respite in bad weather which has driven the high tides. Sirens warning of fresh flooding rang through the canal city early Thursday but the water level remained low compared to Tuesday's tide the highest in 50 years. Conte who has called the flooding a blow to the heart of our country met Venice's mayor and emergency services before jumping in a speed boat to visit businesses and locals affected by the tide. Residents whose houses had been hit would immediately get up to 5000 euros in government aid while restaurant and shop owners could receive up to 20000 euros and apply for more later he said. Several museums remained closed to the public on Thursday. As authorities assessed the extent of the damage to Venice's cultural treasures such as St Mark's Basilica where water invaded the crypt locals were defiant. Many stopped for their habitual coffees at flooded bars drinking their espresso while standing in several inches of water. Austrian tourist Cornelia Litschauer 28 said she felt mixed emotions seeing Venice's famous square half submerged. For the tourists it's amazing it's something to see. But for the people who live here it's a real problem Litschauer said cradling her white Chihuahua Pablo. It's strange. Tourists are taking pictures but the city is suffering. The Locanda Al Leon hotel said its bookings had suffered from the international media coverage of the flood with some guests cancelling their rooms after seeing images of Venice underwater. Under the arches of the Ducal Palace a couple from Hong Kong posed for photos in the chilly morning sun. This trip was planned a long time ago so we couldn't change it groom Jay Wong 34 said. Actually this is a good experience. It's an adventure. Tuesday's acqua alta or high waters submerged around 80 percent of the city officials said. Only once since records began in 1923 has the water crept even higher reaching 1.94 metres in 1966. Former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi arrived for a private tour of the damage sustained to the basilica while rival leader of the Italian right Matteo Salvini was due to drop by for the same on Friday. French tourist Manon Gaudre 22 said seeing Venice submerged was a unique experience. The damage it's causing to monuments and the people is worrying she said wondering if climate change was to blame. Many including Venice's mayor have blamed the disaster on global warming and warned that Italy a country prone to natural disasters must wake up to the risks posed by ever more volatile seasons. We need to be resilient and adapt. We need a policy that looks at the climate through completely different eyes Environment Minister Sergio Costa said Thursday. Mayor Luigi Brugnaro has estimated the damage to Venice at hundreds of millions of euros. The Serenissima as the floating city is called is home to a mere 50000 residents but receives 36 million global visitors each year. A massive infrastructure project called MOSE has been under way since 2003 to protect the city but it has been plagued by cost overruns corruption scandals and delays. This engineering solution that will end up costing nearly six billion euros has got to work Transport Minister Paola De Micheli said. The plan involves 78 gates that can be raised to protect Venice's lagoon during high tides but a recent attempt to test part of it caused worrying vibrations and engineers discovered it had rusted.	True	True	False	True	True
It was not hard for Beto ORourke to seem like a champion of green issues during his eye catching Senate campaign in Americas 2018 midterm elections after all he was up against Ted Cruz a climate change denier. Now as the former US congressman vies to be the Democratic candidate to run against Donald Trump in the 2020 race for the White House he faces much closer scrutiny on the subject. Environmental advocates and experts wait to see if as ORourke pivots from an election in a conservative led oil state to a national primary race heavily influenced by left leaning Democratic candidates he will have more latitude and desire to put progressive green policies at the heart of his strategy. He didnt really emphasise climate change and global warming very much when he was running against Ted Cruz but hes got a field that is absolutely filled with people who are making it a campaign item for voters to consider and I think hes going to have to adjust his narrative when hes out on the trail said Robert Forbis an assistant professor of political science at Texas Tech University. Hes going to have to take a pretty strong stand. The seeds of a decisive and urgent approach were visible in his first campaign visits to Iowa in March when ORourke praised the radical climate change led proposals in the Green New Deal citing his home states struggles with extreme weather such as droughts and hurricanes. Storms like Harvey are only going to become more frequent and more severe and more devastating and ultimately theyll compromise the ability to live in a city like Houston Texas he told the audience. ORourke signalled support for reducing the countrys dependence on fossil fuels and investing in green technology to reach net zero emissions. Some will criticise the Green New Deal for being too bold or being unmanageable. Ill tell you what I havent seen anything better that addresses the singular crisis we face a crisis that could at its worst lead to extinction he said. Literally the future of the world depends on us. Cruz held his Senate seat with a narrow win over ORourke last November. The Republican has dismissed climate change as a pseudoscientific theory and wrote an opinion article in 2017 urging Trump to rip up the landmark Paris climate agreement. ORourke meanwhile wrote a blog backing the Paris accord and during six years in Congress he successfully worked to secure federal protection for more than 7000 acres of mountainous land on the outskirts of his native El Paso. The League of Conservation Voters National Environmental Scorecard gives Cruz a lifetime rating of 4 based on his voting record in Congress ORourkes score is 95. Still ORourkes history on environmental issues is more complex than that number might suggest perhaps unsurprisingly for a politician who hails from west Texas. Texas has more installed wind power capacity than any other state and solar power is growing. But the states economy is heavily dependent on the fossil fuel industry which also wields immense political clout. ORourke received 476325 in campaign contributions from oil and gas sources in the 2017 18 election cycle according to the Center for Responsive Politics second nationally to Cruz albeit not from Pacs and a small percentage of his total donations. This helped fuel accusations that ORourke is more of a fossil fuel ally than his lofty rhetoric might imply. The Sludge an investigative website reported last December that ORourkes Senate campaign failed to comply with a pledge not to knowingly accept contributions of more than 200 from the oil and gas industry. ORourke has not yet signed up to the pledge for 2020. Already five declared presidential candidates have officially signed the No Fossil Fuel Money pledge meaning more than a third of declared Democratic candidates have done so said David Turnbull strategic communications director of Oil Change US a group that urges politicians to commit to clean energy. We look forward to the sixth candidate signing the full No Fossil Fuel Money pledge and were hopeful that Beto might be that candidate. ORourkes campaign did not respond to questions about whether he plans to sign the pledge or how his qualified support for natural gas is compatible with the Green New Deal. In 2015 ORourke twice voted to repeal the nationwide ban on exporting crude oil internationally arguing that lifting the prohibition would boost the economy and national security. We have seen the result which is an emergency of booming fossil fuel production here in the United States at precisely the time we need to be urgently moving away from those dirty fuels Turnbull said. Similarly problematic Beto has pointed to fracked natural gas as a potential part of the solution to the climate crisis when the reality is that there is simply no room for new fossil fuel development of any sort including fracked gas. Like with his support for the removal of the crude export ban we hope that when Beto lays out his full climate policies it will reflect the fact that we cant afford any new fossil fuels of any sort including gas. Given Texass critical importance to the environmental and economic future of the country a Texas presidential candidate can deliver a powerful green narrative said Luke Metzger executive director of Environment Texas an advocacy group. I think Texas has a real interesting story to tell in terms of our both being number one in the country for global warming pollution but also being number one for renewable energy he said. To be able to come from Texas and show we can reduce our pollution we can invest in clean energy I think thats a strong message.	True	False	False	True	False
TIME listed Greta Thunberg a 16 year old climate change activist on its list of the 100 most influential people of 2019. Thunberg who says she has Asperger syndrome gained prominence for ditching school every Friday to protest outside Swedish parliament. The teenager warned in a high profile speech to the United Nations last year that we need to keep the fossil fuels in the ground or face catastrophe. Thousands of students in Europe and the U.S. ditched school to demand government action on climate change in February. American student activists led by the daughter of Democratic Minnesota Rep. Ilhan Omar demanded a Green New Deal the legislation sponsored by New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez. Greta Thunberg saw her power in us and we in turn see our power in her March for Our Lives co founder Emma Gonzlez wrote of Thunberg for TIME adding that Greta is inspiring steadfast students and shaming apathetic adults. Climate change is our reality and youth activists like Greta are doing everything within their power to work against it and demand a change Gonzlez wrote. Thunbergs prominence has only grown as has the alarm of her message. Thunberg even met with Pope Francis who issued an encyclical on global warming in 2015. RELATED Another Canadian Province Boots Liberals Out Of Power Over Carbon Taxes Environmentalists even some climate scientists are increasingly promoting Thunbergs actions in an effort to draw more young people into climate activism. European politicians invited Thunberg to bring her call for urgent action on global warming to lawmakers. I want you to act as if the house was on fire Thunberg said in a speech to European Parliament Tuesday. We are in the middle of the sixth mass extinction and the extinction rate is 10000 times faster than what is considered normal with up to 200 species becoming extinct every single day said a teary eyed Thunberg. Erosion of fertile topsoil deforestation of the rainforest toxic air pollution loss of insects and wildlife acidification of our oceans these are all disastrous trends said Thunberg barely able to keep her tears back. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	True	True
Environmental groups were not going to be happy with anyone President Donald Trump picked for the Supreme Court. But the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh has them especially worried. A conservative who would replace the more moderate Justice Anthony Kennedy Kavanaugh has a record of slapping back Environmental Protection Agency regulations during his 12 years as a federal appeals court judge. Kavanaugh could shift the court to the right in many areas. But Kennedy was especially pivotal on environmental cases ruling with the majority on nearly all of them over 30 years on the bench and often siding with the environmentalists in the biggest cases. Kavanaugh has a narrower view of what environmental protections the federal government can implement. That was clear from an Associated Press review of his opinions while on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit along with other writings and speeches. It threatens to take us back to the old days said Pat Gallagher the legal director at the Sierra Club recalling environmental disasters from the 1960s and '70s. The Cuyahoga River Love Canal when there was no environmental protection. Kavanaugh's backers don't see him as anti environment. His rulings in cases involving the EPA say far more about the aggressive nature of the EPA in terms of trying to stretch beyond its breaking point its mandate from Congress said John Malcolm vice president of the conservative Heritage Foundation's Institute for Constitutional Government. Republicans hope the Senate can confirm Kavanaugh by the time the court's next session begins Oct. 1. But that is in doubt because of delays in reviewing documents related to Kavanaugh's time in President George W. Bush's administration. In his opinions on environmental issues Kavanaugh has often stressed the importance of policies to protect against climate change before saying that Congress not the EPA should create those policies. One prominent example came last year in a majority opinion that found the EPA lacks the authority to regulate hydrofluorocarbons chemicals linked to global warming. Kavanaugh wrote EPA's well intentioned policy objectives with respect to climate change do not on their own authorize the agency to regulate. William Buzbee a Georgetown Law professor who teaches constitutional and environmental law said Kavanaugh often rules that either Congress didn't delegate duties clearly enough to the EPA or that the agency wasn't carrying them out correctly in contrast with a history of judges giving wide latitude to agencies to try to solve problems. It's a move that sounds like an attitude of deference and separation of power Buzbee said. The effect is to take away an agency's powers to deal with real world problems. President Barack Obama relied heavily on administrative action as Republicans controlled Congress for most of his presidency and resisted passing laws that favored environmental protections over companies. Kavanaugh addressed that in the hydrofluorocarbons case Under the Constitution congressional inaction does not license an agency to take matters into its own hands even to solve a pressing policy issue such as climate change. Kavanaugh took similar approaches in two major 2012 rulings. In one Kavanaugh dissented from the circuit wanting to grant further review in a case in which the appeals court upheld the EPA's ability to regulate greenhouse gases. In another Kavanaugh wrote the majority opinion to eliminate a 2011 EPA rule limiting emissions from power plants and other sources to reduce pollution in neighboring states. Writing for a divided panel he found that this good neighbor rule overstepped the EPA's authority. The Supreme Court overruled Kavanaugh. In a speech last year at the American Enterprise Institute Kavanaugh praised the late Justice Antonin Scalia for applying a principle laid out by Chief Justice William Rehnquist to an EPA case. The major questions doctrine he said is critical to limiting the ability of agencies to make major policy decisions that belong to Congress at least unless Congress clearly delegates that authority. Still Kavanaugh has not always ruled against environmental regulation. In 2010 he wrote the majority opinion for a divided panel when trucking groups sued the EPA over California's regulations for engines such as those that power refrigeration systems on trucks. Kavanaugh praised the agency for properly following Congress' directions in delegating that narrow area of regulation to California. In environmental cases judges often must sort out who has the legal standing to challenge regulations or push for protections. The Supreme Court now for decades has said that environmental and aesthetic interests count for standing Buzbee said. My sense is they count less for Judge Kavanaugh. In a 2014 case he wrote the unanimous opinion finding that environmental groups did not have standing to challenge an EPA decision not to tighten carbon monoxide standards. There are also cases where he found that industrial groups have standing to oppose environmental restrictions. One of those came last year when he was on a panel that unanimously found that logging interests had standing to challenge the designation of 9.5 million acresin California Oregon and Washington as a critical habitat for the northern spotted owl. He wrote that industry groups showed clearly that they would face economic harm if logging was banned in the area. There are exceptions in his record. Kavanaugh was part of a unanimous 2009 ruling that found road and transportation building groups did not have standing to challenge some EPA rules. If Kavanaugh is confirmed in time for the new court session the first case he'd hear would deal with an environmental issue. In the case the private owners of land used for logging in Louisiana object to their property's inclusion in the critical habitat for the dusky gopher frog which was added to the endangered species list in 2001 when fewer than 100 were known to be in existence all in southern Mississippi. None of the frogs has been spotted in Louisiana for more than 50 years. A federal appeals court found the land's inclusion as a critical habitat was appropriate.	False	False	False	False	True
Among the 2020 presidential candidates Cory Booker stands out for his record of advocating for the people who bear the brunt of pollution and toxic waste. Before his presidential run he traveled to Louisiana North Carolina and Alabama to inform a sweeping bill that codifies the federal governments requirement to incorporate the interests of communities of color in environmental regulation.And as the mayor of Newark Booker tackled the citys lead water crisis and industrial pollution. Booker is also one of the few presidential contenders to embrace nuclear energy openlyhis 3 trillion plan to address the climate crisis includes 20 billion in research and development of nuclear technology. This is one major difference between Booker and his opponent Bernie Sanders who has called nuclear power a false solution and actually phases it out in his climate plan. The candidate sat down with Climate Desk in Anacostia Washington D.C. for anexclusive interview a day before the climate strikes taking place around the world. As part of the wide ranging conversation about climate change he explainedhow he squares hissupport for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities. I didnt come to the United States Senate as a big nuclear guy Booker told Grists executive editor Nikhil Swaminathan on Thursday but when I started looking at the urgency of climate change I saw that over 50 percent of our non carbon producing power right now comes from nuclear. Nuclear has to be a part of the blend Booker added. And to say its not to say youre going to get rid of nuclear really you are handicapping and undermining our ability to get to the ambitious goals we must have. Booker also supports a fee or tax on carbon pollution that would be used in part to fund clean energy and efficiency investments. South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg is also in favor of price on carbon and explained his plan toClimate Desk this week. I dont think theres any pathway to get to where we need to go without putting some kind of price on carbon he said. A lot of people say well gas is so cheap right now. Yeah its cheap because the price does not include the full cost to humanity. Bookers support for nuclear power and a carbon fee has tempered any praise from the Climate Justice Alliance a network that fears these policies would hurt more than help affected communities. Indeed critics of a carbon tax worry that it would be regressive hurting the poor more than the rich. But Booker argues that rebates and investments in poor communities could help solve that problem. And while historically nuclear power companies have built their plantsand dumped the wastein poor communities of color Booker believes it doesnt have to be that way He points to agreements struck between local and national governments in Canada and Europe as a model for a community process to deal with the waste. Nuclear has proven to be one of the safest ways to advance carbon neutrality he said. Even if it means that we have to phase off it in the future the real pressing challenge right now the threat to our health and our safety and our well being is climate change and that needs to be our driving focus.	True	False	False	True	True
The United States of America has disproportionately contributed to the climate and ecological crises and to preventing a transition away from fossil fuels and Americans thus bear an extraordinary responsibility to solve the crises the text reads. Apparently the six million Jews massacred during the Second World War not to mention the other tens of millions of casualties do not measure up to the overarching evils of climate changeat least in the minds of the Berkeley City Council. Droughts famines and diseases produced by global warming have already killed millions of people in the Global South the document announces adding that the earth is already too hot for safety and justice. The global economys overshoot of ecological limits and increasingly climate change are driving a global fresh water scarcity crisis and the sixth mass extinction of species which could devastate much of life on earth for the next ten million years the resolution warns. To read through the text one would think that global warming has been behind every catastrophe and uprising on the planet. Climate change has been linked to the Syrian War the rise of Boko Haram in Nigeria as well as the famines water shortages and resulting conflict in Yemen Somalia and South Sudan the document pronounces. Not only present evils however but future calamities are also prophesied with astounding exactitude and certainty. The collapse of the Greenland Ice Shelf the resolution states could result in several billion climate refugees or a substantial share of the entire population of the world. Climate change population growth and growing demand for food energy and fresh water will incite violent conflict over diminishing resources by the year 2030 the document also forecasts with remarkable confidence. The antidote to the Councils doomsday predictions are to take the world back to pre industrial levels of CO2 emissions the text declares conjuring images of bearded Amish people driving about in horse drawn carriages. Humanity must restore a safe level of greenhouse gas concentrations and global average temperatures well below todays levels and back to pre industrial levels as quickly as possible it states. Despite the Councils dire warnings however it turns out that scientists themselves are far less certain that Berkeleys elite council members. For instance only 22 percent of the 1862 American Meteorological Society AMS members surveyed in 2008 believe that all or a large amount of the damage caused by global warming could be prevented by taking measures to mitigate its effects. Moreover the correlation between carbon dioxide emissions and climate warming seems anything but linear. Between 2002 and 2008 CO2 emissions increased from 24 billion tons to 29 billion. In that same period the global temperature anomaly decreased from 0.62C to 0.52C. This fuzzy correlation between CO2 emissions and increase in global temperature raises the question of just what effect a radical decrease of carbon dioxide emissions would actually have on the planet. Not content with prescribing a drastic cutback in global emissions however the Council members forge onward to make a more insidious proposal population control. The Council argues in favor of finding ways to humanely stabilize population as a means of mitigating the effects of global warming. The City of Berkeley calls on the United States of America to initiate a just national mobilization emergency effort to reverse global warming which ends national greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible and immediately initiates an effort to safely draw down carbon from the atmosphere the text boldly proposes. While one can only have pity on local residents who must live under the heavy boot of the unhinged Berkeley City Council the rest of the nation can offer a collective sigh of relief that their power extends no further.	False	False	False	True	True
Republican politicians often evoke the Bible when it suits their purposes. But they disregard some of its most important teachings when formulating policy. This includes the story of Noahs Ark.Noahs story holds powerful lessons for us today. We live in a time when it has become absolutely clear that global warming is starting to have a devastating affect on our lives. From super storms and floods like the disaster unfolding in Houston to droughts and fires of unprecedented magnitude the direct effects of climate change are now impossible to ignore. Rising sea levels will put whole swaths of coastal cities like Miami under water before the end of the century. Yet despite such ample evidence and warnings the Republican Party still chooses to ignore the reality. And sometimes I wonder whether any amount of evidence could convince you to act. After all we have a surplus of evidence. What is lacking is the political will of Republican elected officials like youto do anything about it. The catastrophe unfolding in Houston is yet another stark warning.People are losing their homes and their jobs. Some have lost their lives.Scientists expect monster storms like Hurricane Harvey to increase in number and intensify in magnitude as warmer temperatures disrupt weather systems around the world. As I write Hurricane Irma a terrifying superstorm with the highest wind speeds ever recorded in the Atlantic is cutting a destructive path through the Caribbean. Cities like Houston and New Orleans on the Gulf of Mexico face the threat of severe and life threatening impacts. We have a moral responsibility to address this urgent threat.But Republicans dont want to talk about the problem or even admit it exists. Instead the Republican strategy has consisted of aggressive denial of the facts coupled with staunch obstruction of any serious action to address the problem. Tragically no industry has done more to block crucial action to address climate change than the oil industry. In fact as Hurricane Harvey barreled towards Houston two Harvard researchers were simultaneously releasing a report that detailed how Exxon Mobil spent decades lying to the American people about climate change. Now Exxon along with other major oil corporations like Valero Shell Citgo and Phillips 66 has been forced to shut down its Houston refinery because of flooding from the storm. Port Arthur the planned terminus of the Keystone XL pipeline is completely under water. The executives of these oil companies are bearing witness to the boomerang effect of burning fossil fuels. They are glimpsing a future that millions of Americans will face as the climate crisis intensifies. Senators I hope that you will take some time to reflect. Few politicians have done more to prevent action on climate change than the two of youwhich I suspect may have something to do with the5.6 million youve taken from the oil and gas industry over the years.But with so many citizens of your state suffering the direct consequences of climate change I hope you can summon the moral courage to change course. We face an existential threat and in the face of this your specious economic arguments and lame fossil fuel endorsed excuses fall flat. We know that fighting climate change will reduce costs and create millions of jobs.We have the knowledge and technology needed to prevent future catastrophes.By doing so we will create broad prosperity cleaner air and water cheaper energy for all and most importantly we will save lives. Just as the evidence of crisis has made itself apparent in Texas so has the fact that clean energy provides a better path for all made itself evident in the Lone Star State. Texas leads the nation in wind power generation and its on the way to becoming a solar energy powerhouse. Senators its time for you to join the team that is trying to do the right thing not just in the short run but with an eye to our shared future. The people of Texas need you to get on board with the biggest economic opportunity of the 21st century clean energy technology that will save lives create jobs and protect the amazing creation we all call home. On behalf of NextGen America please know that the people of Houston are in our thoughts and prayers. We are also fully engaged in fundraising efforts to assist our fellow citizens affected by this catastrophe. Words do not suffice in a tragedy like this. This is a time for action action to care for our fellow citizens in the face of disaster and action to prevent a systemic worsening of the climate crisis by heeding the warning and doing what is right.	True	True	False	True	True
The international summit Water and Climate Meeting of the Great Rivers of the World sponsored by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe UNECE and other partners is taking place in Romes Capitol building the Campidoglio from Oct. 23 25. In the Popes written message to the meeting conveyed by the Vaticans Secretary of State Cardinal Pietro Parolin the pontiff expressed his concern for water conservation around the world as well as his fervent desire that the threat posed by climate change to our brothers and sisters in the most vulnerable countries will find prompt and effective responses. In another speech at the summit Monday Mr. Karmenu Vella European Commissioner for Environment Maritime Affairs and Fisheries echoed the Popes concerns regarding climate change tying it into the situation of the worlds rivers. We are here today because our climate is under threat Mr. Vella said. Seasonal river flows are changing and floods and droughts are more severe more frequent than ever before. Climate change is raising the temperature of rivers and lakes with major impacts on ecosystems and water quality. These problems are just as real in Europe as they are elsewhere around the globe he asserted. The European Commissioner insisted that the key to addressing the problem of climate change and avoiding a point of no return is to be found in political will. The Paris Agreement reminds us of the need to prepare and adapt and to build up our climate resilience he said. In a major report last week the prestigious UK journal The Lancet suggested that pollution of air and water rather than carbon induced global warming is the real crisis facing the world one being overlooked by environmental activists. The Lancet revealed that pollution related diseases were responsible for an estimated 9 million premature deaths in 2015 or some 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence combined. Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today the study found but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwidethree times more deaths than from AIDS tuberculosis and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence. Curiously neither the European Commissioner nor the Pope made any mention to the extraordinary number of deaths caused by water and air pollution preferring instead to focus on the nebulous and ideologically charged notion of anthropogenic climate change. While to date there has not been a single documented case of a person being killed by carbon dioxide related global warming real pollution of air water and land is killing an average of 25000 people every day across the globe. Late last week a report out of Canada suggested that many nations around the world have quietly begun ignoring or abandoning the energy goals outlined by the Paris Climate Accord. According to Lawrence Solomon of Energy Probe a Toronto based environmental organization Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is one of the only signers of the Paris agreement who is actually abiding by the exacting demands of the accord. Solomon proposed that while feigning interest in global warming is politically expedient most people are unconvinced that it poses a real problemunlike the real pollution that is killing millions. In an essay in Fridays Financial Post Solomon said that most signatories are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios. Trudeau now stands almost alone in sincere support of Paris Solomon wrote. The populist backlash a revulsion at top down governments laden with jet setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses has swept America with Trumps election Great Britain with Brexit much of Europe and Australia. In the process global warming enthusiasts are being swept out he said.	True	False	False	True	True
Four Christian church leaders in Montana are urging their states Republican senator to quit rejecting the widely accepted science behind man made global warming. The one Catholic priest and three Protestant clergy criticized Sen. Steve Daines R Mont. inan op edpublished by the Missoulian Thursday for failing to understand climate changes role in a widespread fish kill in Yellowstone National Park last summer. We cannot remain silent while a U.S. senator from Montana chooses willful ignorance of the greatest threat this state has ever faced and which is already causing extreme damage to our cherished Montana environment said the church leaders the Reverends Amy Carter and Laura Folkwein of the United Church of Christ in Missoula the Reverend Susan Barnes of the St. Andrew Presbyterian Church in Billings and Father Robert Grosch of the nearby St. Patrick Co Cathedral. The simple moral truth is that United States is by far the worlds largest historic contributor to the climate crisis and therefore bears the greatest responsibility for addressing it they added. The church leaders slammed Daines for having the audacity to challenge the overwhelming scientific consensus that emissions from farms and burning fossil fuels are trapping heat in the atmosphere and causing the planet to warm. Not unlike the years of public skepticism over smokings role in lung cancermany people still doubt the science behind global warming thanks to a decades long campaign to seed doubt funded by companies with money at stake. Daines who earned a bachelors degree in chemical engineering before entering politics received a paltry 3 percent lifetime score from the League of Conservation Voters which ranks lawmakers by how they vote on environmental legislation. He did however earn a 16 percent score for last year. In 2012 he told Montana Public Radio he believes the climate is changing but doubts how much humans are effecting it. We view science as a way to deepen our appreciation and wonder at the majesty of Gods creation including the complex beautiful and life sustaining planet earth.	False	True	True	False	False
Rashida Tlaib was nearly breathless. It was 130 on Tuesday afternoon and the newly elected congresswomantold me that shed been racing from one meeting to the next since she arrived in Washington for the weeklong new member orientation. But before 800 amthis morning the incoming representative from Detroit had still found time to give a pep talk to the Sunrise Movement agroup ofyouth activists who would soonstorm the office of Democratic leaderNancy Pelosi to demand that the party use its new House majority to address climate change. The night before Tlaib and Representative elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez N.Y.who made headlines today by joining the protesters at Pelosis officehad stopped by St. Stephens church to meet with the activists on the eve of the demonstration. For me those young people I saw at that church that was me 15 years ago Tlaib said in a phone interview. I was fighting back against corporate greed and this constant disregard for public health. I wanted to come and help. The move is unusual for newly elected members of Congress but not so for Tlaib and Ocasio Cortez both of whom arrived in electoral politics through activism and community organizing and identify themselves as democratic socialists. And while Congress affords them a bigger platform to advance their progressive policy agenda their decision to join with the protesters during their first days in Washington makes clear that they have no intention of abandoning the strategies and principles that paved their way to Capitol Hill. Climate change has been a key issue for both Tlaib and Ocasio Cortez. As a Michigan state legislator Tlaib fought to reduceair and water pollution in Detroit and put environmental justice at the center of her campaign. Ocasio Cortez meanwhile has proposed a new congressional committee to develop a plan to transition the US economy away from fossil fuels reduce the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and promote economic and environmental justice and equality. Tlaib views her workwith groups like the Sunrise Movement as a natural extension of the campaigns she and her fellow progressive built. I dont have to stop being an activist because Im a member of Congress she says. That movement work is critical to moving the needle. Indeed Tuesdays protests appear to have already had some success. Pelosiwho is courting support for her bid to be House speaker issued a statementreaffirming her support for reinstating a select committee to address climate change a new iteration of a House committee that met from 2007 to 2010 but was eliminated when Republicans took control of the House. That promise falls short of what Ocasio Cortez Tlaib and the Sunrise Movement protesters seeknamely the creation of a so called Green New Dealbut the attention has started a conversation between the new members and their partys longtime leader. How far these freshmen progressives can push their fellow Democrats remains uncertain. The Congressional Progressive Caucusa coalition ofliberallawmakers thatTlaib and Ocasio Cortez have joinedwill have a record 90 members in the new Congress. Theres a lot more of us now Tlaib says. Be hopeful.	True	False	False	True	True
Radioactive uranium has leaked through a three inch hole in the floor at a nuclear fuel factory in South Carolina contaminating the soil below the plant the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission says. According to the commission the hole goes six feet down into the soil below the Westinghouse factorys concrete floor. While the commission cannot yet say whether the toxic substance has leached into the areas groundwater agency records show that the soil beneath the plant contains 1300 times the amount of uranium typically found in soil. The commission learned of the leak on July 12 and still does not have results on recent groundwater tests which would show whether pollution had washed into the areas water supply. State Department of Health and Environmental Control officials said that the leak does not pose a threat to local water supplies but activists are concerned that Congaree National Park a vast wetland just several miles from the plant may be contaminated. Its a pretty big concern if you have an unknown quantity of material containing uranium leaching into the groundwaterlocal anti nuclear activist Tom Clements told The State. Exposure to uranium can cause kidney failure and can increase a persons risk of cancer. The Westinghouse fuel factory turns uranium into several types of fuel for nuclear reactors. Fuel manufactured at the South Carolina facility is used in nuclear reactors in the US Europe and Asia. Despite boasting that no company is more focused on nuclear fuel reliability Westinghouses South Carolina factory has seen its share of safety foul ups in the past. The plant was shut down two years ago following a uranium build up in an air pollution control device. Last year a hose malfunction sprayed a worker with a toxic solution sending him fleeing to an emergency decontamination shower. In both cases the company resolved to hire new management and overhaul its safety procedures. The factory has been operational for almost five decades and is one of a handful of nuclear fuel factories in the US. At present its federal operating license is up for renewal. The plant is still operating but the section where the hole was discovered has been shut down until repairs can be completed. Like this story? Share it with a friend!	True	False	False	True	True
The Sierra Club distributed a press release on Wednesday announcing it had received the 64 million donation to support its Beyond Coal campaign and other organizations with the same ideology that would like to put all coal operations out of business and the American workers who depend on them out of work. Thepress release stated Pollution from coal fired power plants is the largest source of carbon emissions and kills 7500 Americans annually down from 13000 when the Beyond Coal campaign began expanding in 2011 through support from Bloomberg. To date Bloomberg has invested over 100 million in protecting the environment and public health through its support of the Beyond Coal campaign. Since 2011 when Bloomberg Philanthropies first partnered with the Sierra Clubs Beyond Coal Campaign nearly 50 percent of the countrys coal fired power plants have announced their retirement and deaths related to coal pollution have decreased by 42. The press release said the new funding will be used to maintain progress despite the fate of the Clean Power Plan. The Trump administration has yet to realize that the war on coal was never led by Washingtonand Washington cannot end it Bloomberg said in the press release. It was started and continues to be led by communities in both red and blue states who are tired of having their air and water poisoned when there are cleaner and cheaper alternatives available cities and states that are determined to clean their air and reduce their costs and businesses seeking to lower their energy bills while also doing their part for the climate. Without any federal regulations on carbon emissions those groups have combined with market forces to close half the nations coal fired power plants over the past six yearsand with this new grant we aim to reach 60 percent by the end of 2020 Bloomberg said. Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club boasted that his organization and other activists are responsible for the closure of scores of dirty power plants. Together we have worked with local grassroots activists and partners in the nations most vulnerable communities to secure the retirement of 259 dirty power plants and the promise of a brighter future putting at the center of our work a transition that leaves no one behind and that demands good paying family sustaining jobs for workers who depended on the fossil fuel economy Brune said. All of this and were just getting started. Our movement is growing and our momentum is unstoppable. Our clean energy future is now. President Trumpsignedan executive order in March ordering a review of the Clean Power Plan as well as other environmental regulations. Instead of Obamas stifling energy regulations the Trump administration will promote policies thatfavorAmerican energy dominance. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt who was one of the first Attorneys General to sue the EPA over the Clean Power Plan is now undertaking the repeal of the Obama era clean energy power grab.	True	False	False	True	True
President Donald Trump asserted that he had very high levels of intelligence and as such did not believe in the scientific consensus surrounding climate change in a sweeping interview with The Washington Post published Tuesday. One of the problems that a lot of people like myself we have very high levels of intelligence but were not necessarily such believers said Trump speaking to the Posts Josh Dawsey and Philip Rucker. You look at our air and our water and its right now at a record clean. ... As to whether or not its man made and whether or not the effects that youre talking about are there I dont see it not nearly like it is. Trumps statements his latest in a long history of climate change denial go against the vast majority of scientists who say the planet has rapidly warmed since the Industrial Revolution and will continue to do so unless humanity is able to dramatically scale back greenhouse gas emissions. Without such action the planet faces a slew of devastating effects including a mass die off of coral reefsan increase in the severity of natural disasters such as wildfires and a global economic hit in the trillions of dollars according to a recent United Nations study. The White House released its own sweeping National Climate Assessment on the Friday after Thanksgiving. The 1656 page reportcompiled by 13 federal agencies and more than 300 researchers painted the bleakest portrait of the future United States yet noting that the country had already warmed 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit over the past century and will warm a further 3 degrees by 2100 unless fossil fuel use is scaled back. Predictions even said that warming could approach 9 degrees or more by the end of the century. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Tuesday that the recent National Climate Assessment was not based on facts. The report was compiled by 13 federal agencies and more than 300 researchers. Among threats to health and the environment the report also warned that sweeping damage would cut off as much as 10 percent of the U.S. economy. Its not based on facts. ... Its not data driven White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said at a news briefing Tuesday. Wed like to see something that is more data driven. Its based on modeling. I wrote the climate scenarios chapter myself so I can confirm it considers ALL scenarios from those where we go carbon negative before end of century to those where carbon emissions continue to rise Katharine Hayhoe a co author of the current assessment and director of the Climate Science Center at Texas Tech University said in a tweet on Friday. The president has stayed firm on his anti climate rhetoric in recent days even after the devastating Camp fire in Northern California left at least 88 people dead. Trump toured the town of Paradise which was incinerated and said that his opinion of climate change hadnt shifted after the visit. He moved to lay blame on forest management policies during the visit instead even suggesting that raking would help stop the scourge of wildfires claims he appeared to repeat in his interview with the Post on Tuesday. The fire in California where I was if you looked at the floor the floor of the fire they have trees that were fallen they did no forest management no forest maintenance and you can light you can take a match like this and light a tree trunk when that thing is laying there for more than 14 or 15 months Trump said. You go to other places where they have denser trees its more dense where the trees are more flammable they dont have forest fires like this because they maintain.	True	False	False	False	False
While scientists continue to warn that climate change poses an existential threat to the planet President Trump wont be talking about it at next years G 7 summit at one of his Florida golf resorts. Climate change will not be on the agenda acting chief of staff Mick Mulvaney told reporters gathered in the White House briefing room Thursday without elaborating. Mulvaney announced that the G 7 meetings would be held on June 10 and 11 at the Trump National Doral Golf Club just west of Miami an area threatened by sea level rise brought on by climate change. With its low elevations and porous limestone bedrock South Florida is particularly vulnerable to sea level rise. Despite warnings from the scientific community developers including Trump have continued to invest in property that could be underwater before long. Just using the U.S. government projections we could be at 11 to over 13 feet of sea level rise by the end of century Harold Wanless director of the University of Miamis geological sciences department and a leading expert on sea level rise told Yahoo News. Theres only 3 percent of Miami Dade County thats greater than 12 feet above sea level. Trump has labeled climate change a hoax concocted by the Chinese government in an attempt to ruin the U.S. economy but not all members of the Republican Party agree. For the first time in a decade Floridas state Senate held a meeting this week to discuss the impacts of climate change the Miami Herald reported. Theres a younger generation of conservatives in this state that arent as much in denial Republican Sen. Tom Lee who chairs the Committee on Infrastructure and Security told the Herald. Young climate activists like Swedens Greta Thunberg have mobilized students around the world to hold school strikes to protest inaction from world leaders on what they see as a crisis. Something must have changed in the debate that so many young people are speaking up and so many young people are being targeted Thunberg told Yahoo News in response to the mockery her movement has received from leaders like Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin. They can sense that we are making an impact. They obviously dont want that. So they are using several methods to mock and hate. While Trump continues to deny the threat that climate change poses to his own properties and the world at large the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco released a report Thursday on the financial risks that global warming poses. It found that properties like Doral that are likely to be underwater in the coming years are already selling for 15 percent less than those where flooding is not a threat. Even more jarring the report warned that climate change poses a threat to the availability of the 30 year mortgage in various vulnerable and highly exposed areas. Thanks to the continued buildup of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere due primarily to the use of fossil fuels the rate at which the polar icecaps are melting continues to exceed previous estimates. As of Aug. 1 of this year for instance Greenland had lost a record 12.5 billion tons of ice. This year is on pace to become the second warmest on record and all of the top 10 hottest years on record with the exception of 1998 have occurred since 2005. Download the Yahoo News app to customize your experience. None Turkey's president Erdogan bluffed Trump out of Syria. Now what does he want? None 'Five Eyes' in the dark Will Trump and Barr destroy trust in U.S. intelligence? None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president None What my journey into homelessness taught me	True	False	False	True	True
Energy Secretary Rick Perry attended a March 29 event about the state of U.S. energy where he discussed his thoughts on energy policy with Carl Cannon the Washington bureau chief of RealClearPolitics. Here are four checks on claims from the interview. Claim 1 Solar grew by 90 percent in the last two years. So were seeing this really great growth in these renewables claimed Perry. The solar energy sector has grown dramatically in recent years. Technological innovation as well as economies of scale have made solar a viable technology. The price of crystalline silicon solar modules for example have dropped dramatically falling from 79 per watt in 1976 2018 dollars to 0.27 per watt according to BloombergNEF. In terms of electricity generation the extent of that growth depends on the type of solar panels counted and whether small scale facilities are included. Looking at photovoltaic solar panels the dominant type of solar technology the U.S. generated on net nearly 33 million megawatt hours MWh at utility scale facilities in 2016 rising 90 percent to 63 million MWh in 2018 according to the Energy Information Administration EIA. When including electricity generated from a second form of solar technology known as solar thermal the percent change drops slightly to 85 percent. These figures only represent the electricity generated at utility scale facilities which are 1 MW or larger in size. The percentage drops further to 75 percent when including net electricity generation from small scale facilities. The EIAs Monthly Energy Review for March reports an 85 percent increase for solar electricity 36.1 million net kilowatt hours kWh generated in 2016 compared to 66.6 million kWh in 2018. Claim 2 When I was governor of Texas we put more wind energy in than any other state in the nation said Perry. Perry served as governor of Texas from December 2000 to January 2015 making him the longest serving governor in Texas history. During that time the state experienced a boom in wind energy. From 2000 to 2014 the amount of net electricity generated from wind power grew from 492000 MWh a year to just over 40 million a year an 8029 percent increase according to EIA data. No other state experienced the same level of growth over this period. Iowa was the next closest generating an additional 15.8 million MWh from wind. The same can be said when measuring growth by installed wind capacity. Texas added nearly 14000 megawatts MW of capacity from 2000 to 2014 according to the Energy Departments DOE WindExchange website far more than the 5446 MW that Iowa added over the same period. Perry helped spur investment in wind energy when he signed a 2005 bill that required Texas to dramatically increase its renewable energy capacity over the following decade. He also threw his support behind a 7 billion electrical transmission project to send renewable energy to communities across the state. Claim 3 From 2005 to 2017 this country has reduced emissions by 14 percent claimed Perry. In 2017 the U.S. emitted 5.1 billion metric tons of energy related carbon dioxide according to EIA data. This represents a 1 percent decrease from the previous year and a 14 percent decrease since 2005. Weighted by global warming potential carbon dioxide emissions accounted for 82 percent of total greenhouse gas emissions in 2017 according to a report from the Environmental Protection Agency. Gross greenhouse emissions fell from 7.3 billion metric tons in 2005 to 6.5 billion in 2017 a 12 percent reduction. Claim 4 When I first met you you were running for president the Department of Energy was one of the federal agencies that you thought was maybe extraneous said Cannon. In 2011 Perry ran for president as a Republican. During one presidential debate he said that he would abolish three federal agencies if elected naming the Commerce and Education Departments but infamously forgetting the third. He later clarified that the third agency was the DOE telling reporters Everybody tomorrow will understand the Energy Department is one of those that needs to be done away with. President Donald Trump announced that he would nominate Perryto serve as energy secretary in December 2016. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	True	False	False	True	True
President Trump on Monday once again backed off his previous claim that climate change is a hoax but would not say whether or not he believed it was a man made problem. Speaking at a Red Cross center in Georgia where he was touring areas devastated by last weeks Hurricane Michael Trump said there is something there in response to a question on climate change from a reporter. There is something there man made or not the president said before deflecting to note that there have been previous storms that were much more intense and destructive than the recent slew of hurricanes to hit the Southeast. Trumps comments come a day after CBS aired an interview on 60 Minutes with the president who said he doesn't want to put the U.S. at a disadvantage in responding to climate change. I think something's happening. Something's changing and it'll change back again he said. I don't think it's a hoax. I think there's probably a difference. But I don't know that it's man made. I will say this I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars. I don't want to lose millions and millions of jobs. Trump called climate change a hoax in November 2012 when he sent a tweet stating The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non competitive. He later said he was joking about the Chinese connection but in years since has continued to call global warming a hoax. I'm not denying climate change he said in the interview. But it could very well go back. You know we're talking about over a ... millions of years. As far as the climate changing back temperature records kept by NASA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration show that the world hasn't had a cooler than average year since 1976 or a cooler than normal month since the end of 1985. Trump's comments came just days after a Nobel Prize winning Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change issued a warning that global warming would increase climate related risks to health livelihoods food security water supply human security and economic growth. The report detailed how Earth's weather health and ecosystems would be in better shape if the world's leaders could somehow limit future human caused warming. On Monday the president said that he had heard of the recent report and that hell have to take a look at it. Trump added I want crystal clear water I want the cleanest air on the planet. Citing concerns about the pact's economic impact Trump said in 2017 that the U.S. will leave the Paris climate accord. The agreement set voluntary greenhouse gas emission targets in an effort to lessen the impact of fossil fuels. Im truly an environmentalist he said on Monday in regards to leaving the Paris Agreement. But that doesnt mean we have to put one of our businesses out of business. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	True	True	False	True	False
In a statement to HuffPost the campaign said it plans to fund renewable energy projects to compensate for the carbon dioxide spewed by the planes and automobiles in which Sanders and his staff will travel while they barnstorm the nation ahead of the Democratic National Convention in July 2020. Bernie Sanders is a champion in the fight for climate justice and like him we know we need to address our emissions through action not just rhetoric Faiz Shakir Sanders campaign manager said in a statement. We are proud to lead the way in the fight against climate change by acting boldly to move our energy system away from fossil fuels and towards sustainable energy sources. Climate change is already a central plank of Sanders second White House bid.In December two months before he announced his candidacy the senator from Vermonthosted a televised town hall with climate scientists and advocates to discuss the crisis. In February he attacked Trump for ignoring climate change in his State of the Union address. During his stump speeches Sanders routinely skewers the fossil fuel industry and promises to enact a Green New Deal if elected. The announcement boosts Sanders bona fides on the issue and gives him a leg up in a crowded field of Democrats putting more attention on climate change than ever before. The move comes a week after the Sanders campaign became the first to unionize. Sanders has also drawn heat recently for his uncertain stance on reparations for the descendants of slaves and for quietly hiring a journalist who frequently attacked his 2020 opponents on Twitter as an adviser. Carbon offsets represent a drop in the bucket on an issue that requires unprecedented systemic change to avert climate disaster. But transportation emissions make up the largest share of the United States climate pollution.Sanders announcement steels the campaign against accusations of hypocrisy often made by Republicans who take an ideological stance against the scientific realities of climate change. The Sanders campaign is buying carbon offsets from Vermont based NativeEnergy the same company Clinton used three years ago. Once dubbedthe celebrities choice in offset providers NativeEnergy provides third party verification of how its offsets are used and boasts a high score as a benefit corporation a sort of LEED certification of for profit companies that pay employees decent wages and provide measurable value to society. Though founded and run by a former utility lawyer the company as its name suggests transferred a majority stake in its ownership to a consortium of Native American tribes in 2005. Carbon emissions from campaign travel first became an issue during the 2004 election when the NRDC Action Fund an affiliate of the Natural Resources Defense Council began raising concerns about the huge amount of fuel candidates burned crisscrossing the country. In 2007 former Iowa Gov. Tom Vilsack became the first presidential contender to go carbon neutral. John Edwards followed soon after. By 2008 both Democrat Barack Obama and Republican John McCain rushed to put themselves on a carbon diet according to MSNBC. During the 2016 Democratic primary Sanders clashed with Clinton over climate change attacking her support for increased gas drilling in a heated debate. After Clinton clinched the nomination the issue disappeared without a single question asked during three debates between Clinton and her Republican opponent Donald Trump. We are proud to lead the way in the fight against climate change by acting boldly to move our energy system away from fossil fuels and towards sustainable energy sources. Nearly every major declared contender for the Democratic nomination has expressed support for the Green New Deal a movement calling for a sweeping national industrial policy that zeroes out greenhouse gases over a decade guarantees clean energy jobs to millions and puts the country on course to generate as close to 100 percent of its electricity from renewables as possible in a decade. In a first Washington Gov. Jay Inslee is centering his entire campaign on climate change vowing to make it his priority if nominated. He joined Sanders Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand D N.Y. Sen. Elizabeth Warren D Mass. and Rep. Tulsi Gabbard D Hawaii in signing the No Fossil Fuel Money pledge an oath promising to reject donations from the oil gas and coal companies and their executives. The newfound attention on climate change comes after the United Nations stark warning in October that world governments have roughly a decade to halve global emissions or face an average temperature increase of at least 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit about half a degree Celisus more than what the world experiences today. Warming beyond that level is forecast to cause catastrophic flooding droughts and extreme weather with economic damages topping 54 trillion.	True	False	False	True	True
So does that mean paper bags which degrade more easily are a better option? Not necessarily. Climate change has become the biggest environmental issue of our time so its worth looking at things from an emissions standpoint. And on that score paper bags fare worse. Even though paper bags are made from trees which are in theory a renewable resource it takes significantly more energy to create pulp and manufacture a paper bag than it does to make a single use plastic bag from oil. Back in 2011 Britains Environment Agency conducted a life cycle assessment of various bag options looking at every step of the production process. The conclusion? Youd have to reuse a paper bag at least three times before its environmental impact equaled that of a high density polyethylene plastic bag used only once. And if plastic bags were reused repeatedly they looked even better. Paper bags can more easily be recycled or even composted bu t the British study found that even these actions didnt make a huge difference in the broader analysis. Unless youre reusing your paper bags a lot they look like a poorer option from a global warming standpoint. That same British analysis also looked into reusable options like heavier more durable plastic bags or cotton bags. And it found that these are only sustainable options if you use them very frequently. Making a cotton shopping bag is hardly cost free. Growing cotton requires a fair bit of energy land fertilizer and pesticides which can have all sorts of environmental effects from greenhouse gas emissions to nitrogen pollution in waterways.	True	True	False	True	True
WASHINGTON AP An agency ethics official at the Environmental Protection Agency says Administrator Scott Pruitts lease of a Capitol Hill condo tied to a prominent fossil fuels lobbyist didnt violate federal ethics rules. A memo signed by Kevin Minoli contends that Pruitts 50 a night rental payments constitute a fair market rate. The memo was dated March 30 the day after ABC News first reported Pruitt lived last year in condo co owned by the wife of Steven Hart a registered lobbyist whose firm pushed EPA to relax pollution regulations. Pruitts college aged daughter stayed in the second bedroom while interning at the White House last summer. Minolis memo says the 50 a night rate would total 1500 for 30 nights a month which he deemed to be a fair price. Pruitts lease however required him to pay just for nights he occupied in the unit. Pruitt actually paid a total of 6100 over the six month period he leased the property an average of about 1000 a month. But current rental listings for two bedroom apartments in the neighborhood show they typically go for far more than what Pruitt paid. A two bedroom townhome on the same block as the one leased by Pruitt was advertised for rent on Monday at 3750 a month. Another two bedroom unit on the next block was advertised as available for 4740 a month. The lease authorized use by the administrator and his immediate family specifically including his spouse and children and consistent with that provision of the lease his immediate family did stay there when they were in Washington D.C. Minoli wrote. The lease did not require payment when the property was not utilized. Neither of these two provisions render the rental cost under the lease as something other than market value. EPA did not provide a copy of Pruitts lease and did not respond to questions about how Minoli determined what he considered to be the fair market rate for the neighborhood. Also left unanswered was how Pruitt came to rent a property tied to a lobbyist with business interests involving his agency. The unusual arrangement has attracted attention in Washington where Pruitt has been under increasing scrutiny for this frequent taxpayer funded travel which has included first class airline tickets. Though federal regulations typically require federal officials to fly in coach the EPA chief has said he needed to sit in premium seats due to security concerns. Walter Shaub who ran the U.S. Office of Government Ethics until last year rated EPAs legal justification of Pruitts living arrangements as Total Baloney. He jokingly tweeted on Friday that he would like to rent the Harts prime location condo for 50 a night. Ill only pay for nights I use it but need it held vacant all other nights wrote Shaub who has become a frequent critic of what he sees as ethical lapses in the Trump administration. has certified that these are standard terms at market rate so it shouldnt matter to you that I dont run EPA. A Republican who previously served as the state attorney general of Oklahoma Pruitt has long been a champion of the oil and gas industry. In the year he has served as the Trump administrations top environmental official Pruitt has moved to scrap gut or replace numerous environmental regulations opposed by the industry while boosting the continued burning of fossil fuels which is the primary cause of climate change. In a statement to The Associated Press last week Steven Hart described Pruitt is a casual friend from Oklahoma with whom he had only occasional contact. Records show the powerhouse lobbying firm where Hart serves as chairman and CEO Williams and Jensen PLLC represents companies that include Exxon Mobil and Cheniere Energy Inc. In December Pruitt and members of his staff spent about 40000 in taxpayer funds to fly to Morocco to help encourage the North African kingdom to import liquefied natural gas from the United States. Cheniere is currently the only exporter of liquefied natural gas from the continental United States. The firm also represents OGE Energy Corp. an electricity company serving Oklahoma and Arkansas. Copies of Pruitts daily calendar obtained by the AP through a public records request show that Pruitt meet in his EPA office with two top OGE executives and a registered lobbyist from Harts firm in March 2017 when he was living at the condo. In October EPA announced it would rewrite the Clean Power Plan an Obama era regulation that sought to limit planet warming carbon emissions from coal fired power plants like those operated by OGE which paid Harts firm 400000 in lobbying fees in 2017.	True	False	False	True	True
An Environmental Protection Agency website teaching kids about acid rain instructs children using cartoon animals to avoid cars limit air conditioning and to buy cars that dont make the air as dirty. The EPAs Acid Rain Kids Site features the story of Lucy Lake a lake living in the mountains and the sick animals around her. On a normal day the plants and animals at Lucy Lake have enough food and clean water to keep them healthy reads the EPA site. The wind carries pure air and the rain comes down clear and clean. But lately Lucy Lake and her friends have not been feeling very well reads the story. Kids then see a cartoon depiction of a browned sweating sick tree a frowning lake and a fish that appears to be gasping for air accompanied by the following text All the plants and animals of the forest gather together to talk about the problem. Why are we sick? asks Frannie Frog. What is doing this to us? asks Sammy Spruce. What can we do? asks Lucy Lake. No one has any answers. Thankfully two people on a hike walk by. A cartoon frog stops the hikers to tell them about the dangers of acid rain. The creatures of the forest gather around and tell the hikers about their problems. We are hungry Were tired and weak Our babies are sick the plants and animals complain. Can you help us? they all ask. The hikers both nod their heads. Yes one hiker says. I think I know what the problem is he says. Its acid rain. One of the hikers then explains where acid rain comes from citing the danger of pollution caused by power plants. Acid rain comes from chemicals in the air or pollution says the hiker in the story. A lot of this pollution comes from power plants that burn fossil fuels like coal to make electricity. We use this electricity to make our lights and our TVs work. Pollution also comes from the cars and trucks people drive. This pollution also causes acid rain. With the help of the plants and animals the hikers then make a list of things that will stop the acid rain from killing the cute cartoon creatures. The list includes turning the lights off when leaving a room not using air conditioning as much riding buses and trains to avoid cars and buying vehicles that dont make the air as dirty. The story ends unsurprisingly with the hikers saving the forest and all its creatures including Sammy Spruce Wendy Wind and a gigantic smiling raindrop. The EPA website contains an Acid Rain Activity Book that includes several acid rain themed games for kids. It also includes a Message for Adults Acid rain is a problem that affects us all The message to spread however is that we can all make a difference and help reduce the presence of acid rain. We hope this Web site will provide younger children with basic information about acid rain and help them form a foundation of knowledge about and an interest for a variety of environmental issues. Its unclear whether acid rain is still a noteworthy problem. Some environmentalists claim it is but others including the Environmental Defense Fund a left wing organization calling for cap and trade policies to battle climate change says problems related to acid rain pollution have been largely been solved.	False	True	True	True	False
This story was originally published bytheGuardian. It appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration. When I was a ranger at Crater Lake national park in the 1980s the average snowfall at headquarters was 500 inches a year and snow could accumulate at 2 inches an hour. One of my jobs as ranger was to shovel out the fire hydrants every day so that if there was a fire in the hotel headquarters or housing wed be able to fight it. Our maintenance staff plowed roads for safe visitor access and rangers patrolled on skis regularly performing rescues. This was all part of ensuring that in accordance with the National Park Services founding charter the parks are unimpaired for the enjoyment of future generations. Leaving the parks open without these essential staff is equivalent to leaving the Smithsonian museums open without any staff to protect the priceless artifacts. Yet as a result of the government shutdown which furloughed most park staff this is what has happened. It is a violation of the stewardship mandate motivated only by politics. While the majority of the public will be respectful there will always be a few who take advantage of the opportunity to do lasting damage. In 2016 the NPS hosted 320 million visitors more than all of the Disney parks major league baseball football basketball soccer and Nascar combined. Many of our national parks operate much like a small city with the National Park Service employees providing all the same services trash collection police and fire response water and sewer systems electrical power bus service and parking management. The national parks differ from a city in that they are also designed to protect some of the United States most precious resources such as the Merced River of Yosemite Valley the elk and bison of Yellowstone and the iconic Lincoln Memorial. When Congress and the executive branches of government failed to appropriate funding in 1998 and 2013 the government shut down for extended periods and the national parks were closed to the public. The logic was that if the employees were furloughed and could not perform their stewardship and safety responsibilities then the only way to meet the requirements of unimpaired was to close the parks. During the 16 day shutdown of 2013 the closure of the national parks became the public face of the shutdown with thousands of articles in the press and recurring images of gates and park closure signs. There was enormous political pressure to reopen the parks culminating in a Republican House joint hearing where I as the NPS director was grilled for five hours over the decision to close the parks during the shutdown. Though unintended the closure of the national parks became a rallying cry for the public to force Congress to finally pass appropriation legislation and reopen the federal government. This time surely to avoid the public outcry theTrump administration decided to keep the national parks open while still furloughing the majority of the NPS staff. As the shutdown extends and the parks are left open we will begin to see the ugly consequences. Trash is already accumulating in parks such as Yosemite and will attract wildlife. This could result in tragic humanbear encounters or habituate bears to human food meaning the animals will have to be relocated or euthanized in the future. Civil war battlefield parks are seeing increases in artifact theft by people with metal detectors. Human waste has overwhelmed toilets at Joshua Tree and Point Reyes and has proliferated along trails rivers and streams potentially affecting water quality and certainly the visitor experience. Roads normally open in Mt. Rainier and Crater Lake national parks are accumulating so much snow that they will have to be bulldozed to reopenat a much higher expense and with prolonged delays. Visitor centers are closed across the parks depriving visitors of information on hazardous conditions trail closures and wildlife activity. Wildlife normally fully protected will be subject to poaching or threats such as the recent break in at the endangered Devils Hole pupfish enclosure in Nevada. Visitors to parks are reporting dogs off leash drone activity off highway vehicles and the public walking on or near fragile resources such as the hot pools and thermal features of Yellowstone. There are other consequences of a shutdown that are less visible but very consequential. The control of the spread of invasive species into national parks stops allowing some to gain a foothold that will be much harder to control. Long term monitoring sites that measure snow depth rainfall air quality water quality or pollution will go unmaintained. Research scientists working on complex issues that only occur during this period such as pronghorn migration may miss their window. These disruptions of data collection make the results less reliable for understanding ecosystem dynamics or climate change. Author Wallace Stegner once said that National parks are the best idea we ever had. Absolutely American absolutely democratic they reflect us at our best rather than our worst. Now left unattended and gathering trash and human waste the Trump administration has let them reflect us at our worst. Jonathan BJarvis was the 18thdirector of the National Park Service. He is now the executive director for the Institute for Parks People and Biodiversity at the University of California Berkeley.	False	False	False	False	False
5 Major Crops In The Crosshairs Of Climate Change Climate change is coming like a freight train or a rising tide. And our food so dependent on rain and suitable temperatures sits right in its path. The plants that nourish us won't disappear entirely. But they may have to move to higher and cooler latitudes or farther up a mountainside. Some places may find it harder to grow anything at all because there's not enough water. Here are five foods and food growing places that will see the impact. Wheat source of bread and a foundation of life in much of the world will suffer from hotter temperatures and the country where the impact may be greatest also is among least well equipped to cope with a shortfall. India is likely to see a large drop in wheat production due to heat stress about 8 percent if average global temperatures rise by 1 degree Celsius according to one recent study. Temperatures are expected to rise more than that according to a recent report from the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change limiting climate change to 1.5 degrees Celsius will require heroic and dramatic action. It will take significant cuts in greenhouse gas emissions within 15 years plus efforts to recapture some of the carbon that's already been emitted perhaps by planting new forests. Globally though wheat may not be in short supply in a warmer world. Russia which is already a major wheat exporter may be able to expand the amount of land devoted to this crop. Despite Georgia's claim to be the Peach State California is the country's biggest peach producer. Farmers there grow about half of the country's fresh peaches and almost all of the fruit that's canned and processed in other ways. Many fruit trees including peaches have a peculiar requirement. If they don't experience enough chill during wintertime they get confused and don't bloom properly. No bloom no harvest. The peach trees currently grown in California's Central Valley require about 700 chilling hours during the winter. But scientists are predicting that by the end of the century only 10 percent of the valley will reliably see that much chilling. And even if plant breeders create peach varieties that need less chilling there's another problem Peach trees also yield less fruit when it gets too hot in summertime. Coffee can't take freezing temperatures but it doesn't like extreme heat either at least the highly prized Arabica type doesn't. So it's mainly grown on relatively cool mountainsides in the tropics. Brazil is the biggest coffee producer in the world by far but as the globe warms up most of its main coffee growing regions probably won't be suitable for growing this crop anymore due to heat as well as more frequent rainstorms. Coffee could move to cooler parts of the country but researchers don't think those new growing areas will make up for what's lost. Meanwhile rising temperatures could threaten native coffee trees that grow wild in the forests of Ethiopia and central Africa. The wild trees represent an irreplaceable storehouse of coffee's original genetic diversity. The world's commercial coffee trees are genetically very similar to each other and those genetically diverse wild trees could be the source of genetic traits that plant breeders may need in order to create commercial trees that can thrive in tomorrow's climate. Some of the wild trees however are preserved in gene banks in Ethiopia and Latin America. Nothing says Iowa quite like fields of corn. Climate models though see a different future. They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes most of them bad for growing corn. Rain will come less often and when it comes the storms will be more intense neither of which is helpful for a crop that demands frequent rains but doesn't do a good job of preventing soil erosion. In addition corn suffers when it gets too hot especially when it's too hot at night. Add it all up and one study estimates that corn yields in Iowa will fall substantially anywhere from 15 percent to an astounding 50 percent. By 2100 the Corn Belt is going to be in Canada not in the United States says Jason Clay senior vice president for food and markets at the World Wildlife Fund. So what will replace corn on Iowa's fertile land? According to one study by the end of the century this part of the Midwest will be more suited for growing cotton soybeans grass and forests. California the biggest single source of America's fresh vegetables and nuts and the primary source of almonds for the entire world is a dramatic illustration of how subtle shifts in climate can have huge effects. California's farms rely heavily on snow that piles up in the Sierra Nevada mountains during the winter and then slowly melts during the summer delivering a vital flow of water to the state's irrigation canals. As the climate warms though winter precipitation will arrive more often as rain and the snow that does fall will melt much more quickly leaving farmers scrambling for water to keep crops alive in late summer. Also there will be more variation from year to year wet years will be wetter and dry years will be even dryer. Both trends increase the chances that from time to time farmers will face catastrophic shortages of water. And that's especially bad for tree crops of which almonds are the biggest because losing an orchard is much more devastating than losing a single crop of say tomatoes. California's farmers may be forced to reduce the amount of land devoted to orchards since there there's a chance that they will not survive a major drought.	True	True	False	True	True
TANGIER ISLAND Va. Reuters This summer a delegation of Republican climate activists visited Tangier Island a speck of grassland in Virginia's Chesapeake Bay to try to convince its 450 residents to take climate change seriously. At a dinner attended by island residents Aug. 2 the activists from RepublicEn headed by former Republican Congressman Bob Inglis laid out the stakes The sea level is rising and some scientists estimate that within decades the island already suffering severe erosion will need to be abandoned. The people of Tangier Island were used to this kind of message. Former Vice President Al Gore a prominent Democratic climate activist had given the same speech to islanders three days earlier. They were also used to rejecting it. We'll talk to everybody said James Eskridge mayor of the mainly Republican island community. But they're not going to change many minds here. Residents he said do not believe in climate change they want a new sea wall to prevent erosion not a lecture about saving the world with solar panels. Tangier Island's steadfast rejection of climate change reflects the rigidity of American opinions about global warming often defined along political party lines. ReutersIpsos polling shows more than a third of Americans mainly Republicans reject the scientific consensus that climate change is driven by human activity. Less than a third of Americans believe global warming poses an imminent threat to the United States. These views barely budged after a series of devastating hurricanes this summer. That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels. And while conservatives have long been skeptical about climate change doubters have a powerful new ally U.S. President Donald Trump. He has called climate change a hoax and has started withdrawing the United States from a global pact to combat it citing what he calls the huge economic cost. Eskridge told Reuters Trump called him in June after seeing a report about severe erosion problems on the island telling him not to worry about sea level rise. I believe man plays a part in it but not to the extent that others have been talking about that's what me and Donald Trump were talking about Eskridge said. 'WE'RE LOOKING TO STAY' An Army Corps of Engineers study in 2015 showed Tangier has lost two thirds of its mass since 1850 because of erosion a process scientists say is being exacerbated by climate change. Journalists and politicians now view the island as a symbol of the climate crisis. Tangier residents are happy with the attention but believe their problem is simpler. A sea wall built on one side of the island in the late 1980s has prevented the land behind it from eroding they say so another sea wall is the answer. We're not looking to have our light bills cheaper we're looking to stay here said Deborah Pruitt 57 who works at the island's museum where printouts of news reports about the island are displayed on a wall. Conservative climate activists like Rob Sisson of ConservAmerica and Mitch Hescox of the Evangelical Environmental Network said the rejection of climate change by Tangier residents is not surprising their groups often have trouble convincing fellow Republicans global warming is a real issue. Often they say people object to the idea that humans could possibly change the climate even if they wanted to. Florida Congresswoman Ileana Ros Lehtinen one of a handful of Republicans to publicly declare a belief in climate change said she has a strategy for getting fellow Republicans to think of solutionsI've found that the best way ... is to not dwell on the causes she said in an email.	False	False	False	False	False
Using an approach described by experts as not scientifically sound the Trump administration will soon change the way it evaluates the harm from coal plants spewing more pollution into the air according to a Monday New York Times report. Trump's Environmental Protection Agency EPA is planning to release a new rule to measure the impact of air pollution on health risks. The rules will be favorable to dirty energy producers like the coal industry an industry that Trump's EPA chief Andrew Wheeler used to lobby for. And to allow that to happen experts told the Times the EPA's new rule will simply ignore decades of high quality research and use unfounded medical assumptions to claim that air pollution does less harm to people than peer reviewed scientific data indicates. One result of the new scientifically unsound method would be to magically decrease the 1400 premature deaths that Trump's changes to environmental rules were previously projected to cause. Trump's ultimate goal is to roll back improvements President Obama made that limit the pollution coal plants produce. Obama's rules would have reduced the amount of dangerous particulate matter in the air by gradually moving energy production to cleaner forms of energy and shutting down older dirtier coal plants. Particulate matter is extremely harmful and it leads to a large number of premature deaths Richard Revesz an environmental law expert at New York University told the Times. Trump wants to toss out the Obama era rules with ones that allow older coal plants to stay in business longer and continue risking lives by spewing particulates into the air. The person in charge of air quality at the EPA William Wehrum was a lawyer and lobbyist for the fossil fuel industry before joining the EPA. He admitted to the Times that the new method would allow the Trump administration to claim its other changes would cause fewer deaths. Trump has a long record of anti environment and anti science positions and so do his political appointees. Now those officials are preparing to discard sound scientific methods to pretend that their actions will be less deadly than they really are. Published with permission of The American Independent.	True	True	False	True	False
The Trump administration will repeal the Clean Power Plan the centerpiece of President Barack Obamas effort to fight climate change and will ask the public to recommend ways it could be replaced according to an internal Environmental Protection Agency document. The draft proposal represents the administrations first substantive step toward rolling back the plan which was designed to curb greenhouse gas emissions from the power sector after months of presidential tweets and condemnations of Mr. Obamas efforts to reduce climate warming pollution. But it also lays the groundwork for new presumably weaker regulations by asking for the public and industry to offer ideas for a replacement. In 2016 when it launched the plan at Obamas behest the EPA declared that theClean Power Plan was a vital cost effective way of combating climate change which would ultimately benefit the U.S. consumer. However an independent study by the Manhattan Institute showed this to be nonsense. The EPAs cost benefit analysis wasfallacious it had drastically underestimated the costs which it claimed would be 9 billion a year but which the Manhattan Institute showed would be closer to 40 billion and it would make no measurable difference to climate change. Hence Trumps election trail promise and executive orderin March this yearrequesting EPA chief Scott Pruitt to rescind the CPP. This was part ofa wider war on the Green Blob which has also involved withdrawing from the UNs Paris climate accord. Had it been implemented the CPP would have required U.S. power plants to lower their carbon emissions by 2030 to 32 percent below 2005 levels. Since carbon dioxide is a natural by product of almost every industrial process the knock on damage to the U.S economy in the form of lost jobs and higher energy prices would have been huge. Note though that the CPP is not being scrapped altogether but rather being delayed indefinitely through judicial fudge. Janet McCabe who headed the EPAs Office of Air and Radiation under Obama said an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking could take years meaning the replacement for CPP could be a long way off. It certainly will draw the process out she said. Some conservative groups have urged the EPA to scrap the CPP without replacing it effectively ending U.S. regulation of carbon emissions. But some industry groups want a replacement to give utilities regulatory certainty and avoid possible lawsuits by environmental groups. So while its good news that the CPP will probably never be implemented the bad news is how difficult it is even for a determinedly skeptical president like Trump to unravel environmental regulation. Even within his own cabinet there are numerous siren voices Javanka Secretary of State Tillerson Economics advisor Gary Cohn urging Trump to maintain his predecessors disastrous green policies. This fudge isnt perfect and it still doesnt solve the problem of the EPAs Obama era Endangerment Finding on carbon dioxide which ludicrously treats a harmless life enhancing trace gas as an existential threat. But at least its a step in the right direction the green blob just lost another of its tentacles.	True	False	False	False	False
California Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown issued an executive order Monday mandating carbon neutrality by 2045 then ordering the state to maintain net negative emissions thereafter. Browns executive order came the same day hesigned into lawa bill mandating California get 100 percent of its electricity from renewables and zero carbon energy sources. Brown is also preparing to host a global warming activist summit Wednesday. California is committed to doing whatever is necessary to meet the existential threat of climate change Brown said Monday. But have no illusions California and the rest of the world have miles to go before we achieve zero carbon emissions. Brown is right in one sense. California does have miles to go to meet Browns executive order because it relies on magical thinking and science fiction according to experts. Existing executive orders call for California to cut greenhouse gas emissions 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050 and state law requires emissions to be cut 40 percent by 2030. However thats not enough to meet the goals of the Paris climate accord according to United Nations models. What Brownorderedis not just reducing emissions but instead implied sucking more greenhouse gas out of the air than human activities in his state put up and not just for electricity. Browns order applies to the entire economy including transportation and agriculture. So what does negative emissions mean in practice? Well no one really knows but experts have put forward ideas to suck carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Browns office said negative emissions would be achieved through increased carbon sequestration in forests soils and other natural landscapes according to itspress release. But how would this even work?RELATED A New Report Details How Nonprofits Are Funneling Millions To Democratic Governors To Further Their Global Warming Agenda Scientists have also proposed technologies to literally suck carbon dioxide from the air and store it underground or in the ocean. Experts have also suggested reforestation ocean fertilization and whats known as enhanced weathering. Enhanced weathering is the rather hilarious idea that one can use rocks to in effect store CO2 emissions. In theory the rocks would react with CO2 and water to form an alkaline solution that leaks into the ocean. However all of these proposals remains magical thinking at this point according to aneditorialin the journal Nature. Enhanced weathering for example would require an area about the size of Texas of US agricultural land every year just to soak up 13 of the annual global emissions from agriculture according to Nature. Another proposed technology thats cited by the IPCC is bioenergy with carbon capture and storage BECCS. This is basically removing CO2 through growing plants which are then burned for energy. The emissions are then captured and stored underground. Of course BECCS is another magical solution thats baked into the IPCCs models of what needs to be done to limit future global warming to 2 degrees Celsius. University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. recentlypublished a paperon the problems with the UNs use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord. Carbon dioxide removal at massive scale is science fiction like a light saber incredible but not real Pielke wrote. Yet BECCS plays a very real role in todays climate policy arena Pielke wrote by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and 90s. If nothing else full implementation of BECCS at scale would require the use of a global land area one and a half times the size of India Pielke wrote about the staggering environmental cost of negative emissions technology. Indeed the European Academies Science Advisory Councilconcludedin early 2018 that negative emissions technologies offer only limited realistic potential to remove carbon from the atmosphere and not at the scale envisaged in some climate scenarios.	True	True	False	True	True
Governor Jerry Brown has expressed an interest in barring the sale of vehicles powered by internal combustion engines Mary Nichols chairman of theCalifornia Air Resources Board said in an interview Friday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.The earliest such a ban is at least a decade away she said. Brown one of the most outspoken elected official in the U.S. about the need for policies to combat climate change would be replicating similar moves by China France and the U.K. Ive gotten messages from the governor asking Why havent we done something already? Nichols said referring to Chinas planned phase out of fossil fuel vehicle sales. The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California. To reach the ambitious levels of reduction in greenhouse gas emissions we have to pretty much replace all combustion with some form of renewable energy by 2040 or 2050 Nichols said. Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward. Instituting such a policy in California would affect the entire car industry globally due to the massive size of Californias car market. Over2 million new passenger vehicles were sold and registered in the nations most populous state last year more thanthan the entire nations of Spain France and Italy. California has had the right to write its own pollution rules since the 1970s underwaivers granted by the EPA. But its unlikelythe Trump administration wouldapprove such a plan forcing California to take a different legal route. According to Motor Trendmagazine Nichols saysCalifornia is consideringregulating the types of cars that can be registered in the state or have access to highways. We certainly wouldnt expect to get a waiver for that from the EPA she toldBloomberg. I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get that result. China plans to endsales of combustion enginevehicles in 2030. Other countries like France and the U.K. plan to follow suit a decade later. California has not yet specified a date to copy Chinas policy. Tim Donnellyis a former California State Assemblyman and Author currently on a book tour for his new bookPatriot Not Politician Win or Go Homeless. He also ran for governor in 2014.	False	False	False	False	True
We cannot live in a world that is burning one young woman said that is melting. Climate change is already affecting millions of people another young woman claimed. This could lead to mass extinction. We are not here to guilt individuals that forgot to recycle a cup last week another young woman said. We are here to hold cowardice sic politicians accountable who have caused this damage by turning their heads in fear. Those 12 years left to stop carbon emissions a young woman yelled. Is now down to 10 years and five months. One young woman said she wanted to acknowledge Hurricane Dorian a storm that is still in the Atlantic Ocean and is not expected to make landfall somewhere in Florida until early next week. It is ravaging the coast of Florida the girl said. It is not a coincidence. It isa direct impact of the climate crisis. The youths held signs that read Greed Kills Help My Home is on Fire and 527 Years of Indigenous Resistance and chanted in between speeches phrases such as What do we want? Climate Justice. When do we want it? Now. No more coal no more oil keep your carbon in the soil and Waters are rising people are dying. A speaker said that the protest was not the goal of the movement by a catalyst for action including a planned global climate strike on September 20 just three days ahead of a U.N. climate summit that is expected to draw leaders from around the world and where Thunberg will be a special guest and speaker. The speaker listed the groups demands which will be presented at the U.N. summit A just and livable world where fossil fuels are left out of every decision around the world 100 percent renewable energy around the globe and holding polluters accountable for causing the climate crisis. The publicist for the New York City protest refused to speak with Breitbart News when an inquiry was made about Thunbergs appearance and about Alexandria Villaseor a 14 year old who claims she has been protesting every Friday at the United Nations for 38 weeks. Reporters on the scene were kept from interviewing Thunberg during the protest. Thunberg gained international attention when she cut school a year ago to appear before the Swedish parliament where she called on young people around the world to cut school every Friday to protest climate change. It is not clear how many students in New York are still on summer break or skipped classes but Thunbergs publicity team announced that the 16 year old is taking a sabbatical from her high school studies to concentrate on her activism. After attending the U.N. summit Thunberg and her father will travel in the United States Canada and Mexico before attending a second U.N. climate change summit in Chile in December. Thunberg has said she is not sure how she will get back to Sweden and no details have been released on how she will travel around the North and South American continents without the help of fossil fuel powered transportation.	False	False	False	True	False
Billionaire Tom Steyer is keeping a low profile with respect to his support for the Democratic Partys Green New Deal. Its an unusual position for one of the environmentalist movements biggest advocates. Steyer has stayed mum on an all encompassing climate resolution that promises to completely remake the American economy. Hes given faint praise for the GND in a tweet and a few sparse press statements but the Democratic megadonor is instead focusing on impeaching the president. Theclimate resolution which was rolled out by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez on Feb. 7 callsfor 10 year national mobilizations toward a series of goals aimed at fighting global warming. A separate fact sheetclaimsthe plan would mobilize every aspect of American society. Steyers relative inaction comes as critics slam the GNDs coming out party. Ocasio Cortezs office provided NPR the GND resolution and its accompanying FAQ document that laid out its goals namely to move America to 100 clean and renewable energy within 10 years. The FAQ document dump turned into a millstone around Democrats proverbial necks. Among other things the document claimed that Americans must upgrade or replace every building in US for state of the art energy efficiency if they are to rid the country and world of all forms of pollution and greenhouse gases. It also stated that the GND would provide benefits for people unwilling to work. Ocasio Cortezs staff was forced to ding the document from the website and clarify the lawmakers position. The drama unfolded less than a day after the Feb. 7 rollout of the now beleaguered deal. Steyer for his part issued a tweet on the day of the rollout cheering the New York Democrats ambitious play. A real solution proposed in Washington? About time!! Lets make the liars and deniers explain why this doesnt HAVE to happen he told his Twitter followers at the time. Steyer didnt mention the GND again until several days later when Democratic Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts published a statement on his website noting Steyers support. Our society needs to turn dramatically and immediately towards the shared goals of environmental justice broad based prosperity and health. The Green New Deal is that turnSteyer said in the Feb. 13 statement. Steyers political action group NextGen America has not responded to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for comment. Some critics believe it makes sense why the former hedge fund manager is staying mum. Christopher Horner a senior fellow at the Competitive Enterprise Institute told TheDCNF that Steyers reticence to leap into the fray is probably a smart tactic given the GDNs controversy. I think I would avoid wide circulation too Horner said adding that the same people who couldnt create a healthcare website apparently cant even properlypostto a website. He often engages in legal battles against attorneys who sue energy companies over climate change. Other analysts shared similar sentiments. Hes calculating. Its not overly popular EE Legal President Craig Richardson told TheDCNF referring to the GND which received waives of support from various Democratic presidential candidates. Hes all in on climate program. Its a trial balloon so hes smart enough not to jump into that right away. Its really not politically expedient to come all the way out for it he said of Steyers reticence. Richardsons group is also on the front lines in battles against anti oil activists. Steyer is plowing another 6 million into what some Democratic leaders worry is an ill fated attempt to impeach the president. He decided not to run against President Donald Trump in January citing concerns about his business dealings and past fossil fuel investments. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	True	False	True	False
The shift in government policy likely will force Musk and his investors to revamp his sprawling business empire which relies on government subsidies and on preferencesfor solar energy over natural fuels. For examplethe Los Angeles Times reported in 2015 thatMusks battery factory in Reno Nevada is reported to have enjoyed roughly 1.3 billion in state subsidies and his SolarCity companyhas gotten 1.5 billion from federal solar regulations. In California the state legislature allowed his Tesla Motors to sell more than 500 million worth of government granted carbon energy credits said the Los Angeles Times and the states anti pollution agency allows theowners of battery operated cars to use low traffic high occupancy lanes in gridlocked Los Angeles. Musks solar energy company in New York state has reportedly gained 1 billion in near term and short term investment from Democratic politicians said the newspaper. However those financial gains for Musk depend on higher energy taxes for the nations established manufacturing sectors especially in Midweststates.Breitbart described the economic impact of the climate agreement Unsurprisingly Musk is a strong advocate for growing carbon taxes on natural fuels. In a January 2017 interview with Gizmodo Musk declared CO2 carbon diooxide isnt exactly pollution but it does cause warming and slight acidification of water if very large quantities are dug from deep underground and added to the surface cycle. The problem is the age old tragedy of the commons. The common good being consumed is atmospheric and oceanic carbon capacity which currently has a price of zero. This results in an error in market signals and far more CO2 is generated than should be. We wont ever go to zero CO2 but the rate over time should be dropped far below what it is today. Start low and increase it until the desired outcome is achieved. This can be offset by a reduction in other taxes like sales tax which is quite regressive. This is analogous to taxing cigarettes and alcohol more than fruits and vegetables which everybody agrees makes sense. We should have higher taxes on the things that science says are probably bad for us than those that are probably good for us. New York investors including Goldman Sachs have made big bets on the preservation of the Paris deal according to The HuffingtonPost.	True	False	False	True	True
The Democratic candidates sounded the alarm on climate change in the first presidential debates but the discussion in June was so limited that they never really got into the details of how theyd solve the crisis. It was a different story this time around. It took more than an hour to get there Tuesday night but during the 12 minutes of discussion of global warming policy two of the frontrunnersElizabeth Warren and Bernie Sandersbecame the first candidates to substantively embrace versions of a Green New Deal in the debates. The concept of a Green New Dealpushed by lawmakers like Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y.has become a favorite idea for progressives. It outlines a vision for economic infrastructure and clean energy investment while aggressively ramping down to net zero emissions as soon as possible. Elizabeth Warren didnt actually use the words Green Neal Deal or tout AOCs specific resolution Tuesday night but she did capture its ethos by touting her plan for investing 2 trillion over 10 years in green manufacturing. The climate crisis is the existential crisis for our world she said. I have a plan for a green industrial policy that takes advantage of the fact that we do what we do best and that is innovate and create. She promised that her plan would produce roughly 1.2 million manufacturing jobs. This could revitalize huge cities across this country she added. Bernie Sanders also embraced the Green New Deal on stage albeit briefly. The Green New Deal is a bold idea he said. We can create millions of good paying jobs. We can rebuild communities in rural America that have been devastated. As he often does Sanders pledged to fight back againstthe fossil fuel industry noting that it continues to receive tax breaks and subsidies adding up to hundreds of billions of dollars globally. I get a little bit tired of Democrats afraid of big ideas. Republicans are not afraid of big ideas he said. Please dont tell me that we cannot take on the fossil fuel industry. Other candidates on stage were far more critical of Green New Deal policies. Former Maryland Rep. John Delaney pointed to his plan for a carbon price and investing in technology to capture carbon from the air. But he argued a Green New Deal would tie progress on climate to other things that are completely unrelated to climate like universal health care and guaranteed jobs. Former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooperwho has advocated working collaboratively with the oil and gas industry to address climate changecalled Green New Deal proposals a disaster at the ballot box. You might as well FedEx the election to Donald Trump Hickenlooper said. Montana Gov. Steve Bullock expressed doubt that such an ambitious program could make it through Congress. Lets not just talk about plans that are written for press releases that will go nowhere else if we cant even get a Republican to acknowledge that the climate is changing he said. Nearly every Democratic presidential candidate has now released a climate change plan or at least part of a plan. Climate change has consistently ranked as one of the top concerns among Democratic primary votersand polls suggest that Trumps climate denial is deeply unpopular. The relatively brief segment devoted to climate change Tuesday is unlikely to satisfy environmental activists. They have pressed for an official DNC climate change debate because they argue its needed to finally allot candidates the time to debate their plans in depthand to highlight the fact that President Donald Trump has no answers himself. Frankly I dont think we see an indicator that candidates arent willing to talk about solutions Greenpeaces US climate campaigns director Janet Redman told me after the last debate in June. But I think they need more time to state the case.	False	False	False	False	False
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson arrives at a meeting of the National Space Council in Chantilly Va. on Oct. 5 2017. Photo Andrew HarnikAP President Trumps dismissal of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson Tuesday morning fulfilled a long held wish for climate advocates but they fear his replacement CIA Director Mike Pompeo will be even worse. Tillerson joined Exxon in 1975 and rose through the ranks over the decades. He was CEO and chairman of ExxonMobil from 2006 until he joined the Trump administration in 2017. That Trump would nominate a lifelong oilman to succeed John Kerry who led the U.S. through the Paris climate negotiations of late 2015 as the nations top diplomat resulted in predictable and fierce pushback. During his confirmation hearing in January 2017 however Tillerson told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that he thought the United States should stay in the Paris Agreement which strives to reduce global warming to 2C 3.6F. He also suggested that a carbon tax may be the best way to limit the greenhouse gas emissions driving global warming. Pompeo on the other hand identified with the tea party and represented Kansass Fourth Congressional District from 2011 to 2017. He received more financial backing from Koch Industries an energy and natural resources conglomerate than any other candidate in the 2010 elections 80000. In fact according to the Center for Responsive Politics a bipartisan research group that tracks the effect of lobbying on elections and policy Pompeo has received more money from Koch interests than any other House member. In just four election cycles 2010 2012 2014 2016 he received the following 335000 from Koch Industries employees which includes 92000 from the Koch family 69000 from theKoch Industries PAC 417175 from Americans for Prosperity an advocacy group funded by the Kochs and 87532 from other organizations with substantial funding by the Koch brothers. And Pompeo turned to the Koch brothers who actively oppose climate change legislation for money long before running for office. In the late 90s Koch Industries invested in an aerospace company Pompeo founded with fellow West Point alumni. He sold his interest in Thayer Aerospace in 2006 and became president of Sentry International which produces and sells oil field equipment. In short even though environmentalists adamantly opposed Tillerson they do not expect anything positive for the climate from Pompeo. Jake Schmidt the international program director at the Natural Resources Defense Council released the following statement Replacing the man from Big Oil with a first class climate denier simply goes from bad to worse. This shuffling of the deck chairs will ensure that Washington continues to bring up the rear when it comes to international action to combat dangerous climate change. Tiernan Sittenfeld senior vice president of government affairs for the League of Conservation Voters said in a statement that Pompeos nomination is profoundly disturbing but not unexpected. Though not surprising this is extremely troubling. Climate change is one of the most critical threats facing our nation and world and the secretary of state has a huge responsibility to make sure it is addressed by the global community she said. With a history of questioning the science of climate change a close relationship with the polluter Koch brothers and lifetime LCV score of 4 Mike Pompeo has no business becoming the next secretary of state. Naomi Ages the climate director of Greenpeace USA was similarly perturbed. Donald Trump has now somehow picked someone even worse than Rex Tillerson to run the State Department. Greenpeace has been opposed to Tillerson as secretary of state from the moment he was nominated and we continue to believe that the U.S. government cannot and should not be run by fossil fuel industry flunkies Ages said in a statement. Mike Pompeo though is uniquely unqualified to be secretary of state in an entirely different way than Rex Tillerson was. In addition to being a climate denier like his predecessor Pompeo is Koch brothers shill who will denigrate the United States reputation abroad and make us vulnerable to threats at home. Rep. Barbara Lee D Calif. also took issue with Pompeos past statements on climate change.	False	False	False	True	True
President Trump Donald John TrumpSunday shows preview Shutdown negotiations continue after White House immigration proposal Rove warns Senate GOP Don't put only focus on base Ann Coulter blasts Trump shutdown compromise We voted for Trump and got Jeb! MOREin an early morning tweet on Sunday suggested global warming could be helpful as a massive snowstorm dropped several inches of snow and sent temperatures plunging across the Midwest and swaths of the Northeast United States. Be careful and try staying in your house Trump advised. Large parts of the Country are suffering from tremendous amounts of snow and near record setting cold. Amazing how big this system is. Wouldnt be bad to have a little of that good old fashioned Global Warming right now! The president who hasrepeatedly cast doubt on the existence and effects of climate change has regularly cited significant winter storms to mock the concept of global warming. He sent similar tweets in 2017 and 2011. The current winter storm prompted the governor of Kansas to declare a state of emergency canceled thousands of flights and dumped more than a foot of snow across most of upstate New York. Falling temperatures were expected to create icy surfaces further increasing the risk of travel. Trump and others who deny climate change have cited cold temperatures and winter storms to dismiss global warming but experts have noted there is a difference between the climate and weather. A government report issued late last yearconcluded that climate change could cost the United States billions of dollars annually within decades if greenhouse gases arent dramatically reduced and could worsen environmental disasters like wildfires and flooding. Its findings aligned with those of the broader scientific community. The study mandated to be released every four years under the National Climate Assessment from the multiagency Global Change Research Program was conducted by hundreds of government and external scientists. Trump dismissedthe report saying he did not believe its findings and disputing that climate change is man made.	True	True	True	True	False
India's southern state of Tamil Nadu is poised to become a global leader in wind power according to a new report. But first the state must overcome its addiction to coal writes Nityanand Jayaraman. The report by the US based Institute of Energy Economics and Financial Analysis predicts that by 2027 more than half of Tamil Nadu's power will be generated by zero emissions technologies notably solar and wind. The state's current capacity to generate wind power 7.85 gigawatts GW is already impressive considering it is higher than that of Denmark or Sweden. But the report estimates that it could double over the next decade and that solar installations too could increase six fold to reach 13.5GW. If that happens clean renewable energy would account for 67 of Tamil Nadu's capacity which could revive the state's debt ridden utility. But in order to harvest that potential Tamil Nadu needs to transform its power sector. Tamil Nadu's population is three times that of Australia and its per capita GDP is on a par with Sri Lanka and Ukraine. It could prove to be an example of how emerging economies can grow while slashing their carbon emissions. Assuming Tamil Nadu's GDP will grow at an annual rate of 7 the report suggests that much of this growth can be driven by renewables. Installation and operating costs for wind and solar power have dropped low enough to compete with established but dirty sources of power such as coal. But that is where reality tempers the possibilities. The report argues that not only does Tamil Nadu not need coal or nuclear power but that these projects are financially fraught. Electricity from new coal power plants is likely to be twice as expensive as solar or wind power. But despite the bleak financial prospects Tamil Nadu currently has 22.5GW of coal power plants in the pipeline. Pursuing these ventures will weaken the state utility's finances and its ability to invest in smarter cleaner alternatives. There are other challenges too. Wind power can be generated only from May to October. Even during those months production cannot reach its peak because the state does not have a large enough grid to convey excess electricity to other states. So they will have to slow down generation from other sources. This also means the state is unable to import cheap power from other states during the remaining seven months when wind power is not feasible. Work is afoot to change this but its not guaranteed that the improvements will ensure that the grid can cope with the predicted generation. Integrating power from seasonal sources like wind requires a smart grid one with a sophisticated system of supply and management that can adjust to variations in demand. On this count too Tamil Nadu has a long way to go. But the biggest limiting factor for the state is likely to be water. Between climate change and reckless exploitation and pollution of rivers streams and lakes Tamil Nadu is staring at a bleak water future. At least 60 of groundwater resources in the state are assessed as over exploited critical or semi critical according to India's Central Ground Water Board. In April 2017 Tamil Nadu farmers camped out in India's capital Delhi staging dramatic protests stuffing dead rats in their mouths stripping themselves naked in front of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home and drinking their own urine to underscore the intensity of the drought back home. In June 2017 villagers in Tamil Nadu's parched Ramanathapuram district were protesting against a solar power plant they alleged that more than 200000 litres of scarce water was being extracted illegally from bore wells to clean the 250000 solar modules daily. Utility scale solar farms massive projects that supply power to the gird such as the one in Ramanathapuram need to be re evaluated especially if they are to run in areas where water is scarce. The report predicts that Tamil Nadu will have 10.3GW of utility scale solar installations by the end of this decade and only about 2GW of rooftop installations. Given that both the availability of sunlight and the demand for electricity are decentralised it makes sense to maximise rooftop solar installations rather than to invest in large solar parks. The overall direction if not the magnitude and rate of change laid out in the report is not just possible but essential both financially and environmentally. A healthy and environmentally sustainable future requires more than just switching from dirty coal to wind or solar power. But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	False	True	False	True	False
Donald Trump is moving to formally exit the Paris climate agreement making the United States the only country in the world that will not participate in the pact as global temperatures are set to rise 3C and worsening extreme weather will drive millions into poverty. The paperwork sent by the US government to withdraw begins a one year process for exiting the deal agreed to at the UN climate change conference in Paris in 2015. The Trump administration will not be able to finalize its exit until a day after the presidential election in November 2020. The secretary of state Mike Pompeo announced the development on Monday afternoon saying the agreement would be an unfair economic burden imposed on American workers businesses and taxpayers and that the US has already reduced its heat trapping emissions. But organizers of local city and state efforts to curb the crisis across America say the US is still trying to play a role in fighting the climate crisis despite the actions of the federal government. Carl Pope vice chair of the group Americas Pledge said its members who are vowing to keep fighting the climate emergency produce more than half the countrys heat trapping emissions and represent about 70 of the US gross domestic product. Another organization the US Climate Alliance includes the governors of 25 states representing 55 of the US population. In the Paris agreement the US agreed to cut its heat trapping pollution at least 26 below 2005 levels by 2025. Dozens of countries are also pursuing goals to reach net zero emissions by 2050. But they represent only about 11 of the worlds climate footprint and exclude the biggest emitters China the US and India. Staying on par with those more advanced countries would require the US government to eliminate pollution from coal and natural gas powered electricity plants transportation manufacturing facilities and agriculture. Local action by itself is not likely to be enough. We dont think its likely just with the states we have we think we need the whole country to be moving together Pope said. Jean Su energy director with the Center for Biological Diversitys Climate Law Institute said America is the number one historical contributor to the climate emergency wreaking havoc in burning California the flooded Southeast and the rest of the world. The next president must repay this extraordinary climate debt by rapidly moving America to 100 clean energy and financing the decarbonization of the Global South Su said referring to the developing world. In addition the Trump administration has also pulled US funding commitments to help the developing world cut pollution. John Kerry and Chuck Hagel president Barack Obamas secretaries of state and defense respectively in a Washington Post op ed called it a dark day for America. Climate change is already affecting every sector and region of the United States as hundreds of top scientists from 13 federal agencies made clear in a report the White House itself released last year they said. The past five years were the warmest ever recorded. Without steep pollution reductions climate change will risk tens of thousands of US lives every year by the end of the century. They called the Paris agreement a start not a finish line but the best ignition switch the world could agree on to spark international cooperation on this critical issue. Senator Tom Carper the top Democrat on the Senate environment panel said Once again President Trump is abandoning our global allies for the sake of misplaced political gain. Now America stands alone nearly 200 countries have joined this global commitment to fighting climate change even global pariahs like North Korea and civil war torn countries like Syria. Carper said Trump is abandoning tremendous economic opportunity and public health benefits. Trumphas alternately ignored or denied the climate crisis. His agencies are nixing regulations for power plants and cars and bolstering fossil fuels whenever possible. He promised to widespread dismay to exit the Paris agreement during his campaign. The Democratic 2020 election frontrunners challenging Trump have all said they would set the country on a path to neutralize its climate pollution by 2050. Nate Hultman director of the University of Marylands center for global sustainability and lead author of this years Americas Pledge report pointed to new laws in New Mexico Nevada Washington Maine New York Washington DC and Puerto Rico for 100 clean energy targets. Hawaii and California already had such laws. Together they represent 16 of the nations electricity more than doubling the share from 2018 he said. Another way to think about it is that Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement is supported in reality by only about 30 of the economy and 35 of the population Hultman said. Even once the US withdraws the country can participate as an observer in international climate negotiations. But despite the efforts of subnational governments recent analysis shows the US is still far off track from its commitments regardless of whether Trump pulled out. The US is also far from neutralizing climate emissions by the middle of the century which as many experts say will be necessary for all countries in order to avert the worst of the crisis. We can still get there with a serious shift in policy in the coming years said Kate Larsen director of Rhodiums international energy and climate research.	False	False	False	True	False
Mark Miller of Pacific Legal Foundation an anti regulation law group that has won 10 out of 12 Supreme Court cases it has pursued told BuzzFeed News it is too soon to tell exactly how a replacement for Kennedy would change environmental law. You couldnt predict how Justice Kennedy was going to decide things over his thirty some years. Reliably hard to predict Kennedy was more interested in nuanced and scientific arguments than some of the more conservative judges with a stricter anti regulation outlook David Doniger of the Natural Resources Defense Council told BuzzFeed News. Clearly over the years he has been in a different spot from the other judges. Trump has said he will choose Kennedys replacement from a short list of 25 candidates . If that holds true the new court will likely be harder to convince of the importance of environmental laws. He was a gettable fifth vote on decisions Bookbinder said. Things are more daunting without him. He will be missed David Bookbinder of the Niskanen Center who was the Sierra Clubs chief climate counsel in the 2007 Massachusetts v. EPA decision that designated greenhouse gasses as pollution under the Clean Air Act. But during his 30 year tenure Kennedy was also the key vote on fundamental environmental decisions. Environmental lawyers are worried about tough times ahead for new laws restricting pollution and protecting wildlife. Kennedy announced his retirement Wednesday prompting an immediate political scramble over his successor and opening the door for new legal fights on hot button social issues such as abortion and gay marriage. Miller suggested that the Endangered Species Act would be the first environmental issue to take the stage on a Kennedy less court A dispute over the endangered dusky gopher frog Weyerhaeuser v. US Fish and Wildlife Service FWS is now on the courts docket in the fall. That fight is over 1500 acres of forest in Louisiana that the FWS designated as critical habitat for the survival of the species even though the frogs dont live on it. The owners of the forest are challenging the government agencys ability to declare property as critical habitat when a species doesnt live on it as well as the government not taking economic costs into account in making such designations. Further down the road experts expect a fight over which of the nations waterways are actually protected under the Clean Water Act to return to the Supreme Court which sent lawsuits on this issue to district courts in January. Those lawsuits are challenging the Environmental Protection Agencys protection of some streams and waterways under rules narrowly written to conform to a 414 Rapanos v. United States decision made in 2006 where the 1 was Kennedy. The conservative wing of the court wanted to limit EPAs oversight to only big navigable waterways in that case and the liberal justices wanted essentially all small wetlands and streams protected too but Kennedy ended up creating middle ground. He said the government should only be able to regulate smaller waterways that have a significant nexus with major ones. So there was no majority opinion. Because all spaces protected under Kennedys one vote opinion also would be protected under the four liberal justices view however his opinion is the one that effectively controlled decisions going forward. In this case his lone opinion became the law Bookbinder said. Thats how pivotal he was. More lawsuits are expected on this in response to Trumps EPA drafting its own controversial water rule. One area legal experts are split on is whether the 2007 decision that greenhouse gases are pollutants will be reconsidered. Theres a been a lot of focus on whether that case will be reversed by a new majority Joseph Goffman executive director of Harvards Environmental Law Program told BuzzFeed News. While he doesnt dismiss this possibility out of hand hes more concerned by the court incrementally chipping away at the governments authority to regulate climate pollution in other ways. NRDCs Doniger pointed out the landmark decision has been twice reaffirmed by the court. At the same time it had already started to chip away at EPAs power to regulate greenhouse gasses in 2016 by halting enforcement of the Obama administrations Clean Power Plan aimed at curbing emissions from power plants. The Trump administration has since said it was pulling back that plan. Chief Justice John Roberts over the years has not been consistently opposed to environmental regulation or plain readings of pollution laws Doniger added suggesting that environmental plaintiffs in cases may turn their strategy to garnering his vote. And while there were many close cases involving the environment that came to the court during Kennedys 30 years there environmental advocates noted that not all of those cases were close. Its not like every environmental case was decided 54 Doniger said. There are plenty of 63 or 72 cases where environmentally sound decisions in our view were made. So you really cant say the sky is falling.	False	False	False	True	False
In his Message for the World Day of Prayer for the Care of Creation the pope adopted the apocalyptic language encouraged by climate alarmists to frighten people into taking action. Too many of us act like tyrants with regard to creation he declared. Let us make an effort to change and to adopt more simple and respectful lifestyles! Now is the time to abandon our dependence on fossil fuels and move quickly and decisively towards forms of clean energy and a sustainable and circular economy. Let us also learn to listen to indigenous peoples whose age old wisdom can teach us how to live in a better relationship with the environment he said. Recent studies have shown that the language of climate change and global warming do not stir up an emotional reaction in people and so climate alarmists have issued an appeal for the use of more powerful expressions to provoke people to action. Last April a team of advertising consultants from SPARK Neuro released the results of astudysuggesting that worn out expressions such as climate change do not frighten people enough whereas stronger vocabulary such as climate crisis and environmental collapse produced a significantly stronger emotional response. The expression climate crisis for instance got a 60 percent greater emotional response from listeners than climate change the study found. In its research SPARK Neuro measured physiological data such as brain activity and palm sweat to quantify peoples emotional reactions to stimuli. Of six different options global warming and climate change performed the worst beaten handily by climate crisis environmental destruction weather destabilization and environmental collapse. The pope has apparently joined the climate alarmists in employing more incendiary language dropping his former references to climate change to speak of a climate emergency and an environmental crisis in Sundays message. He also underscored the forthcoming United Nations Climate Action Summit as of particular importance while proposing that governments will have the responsibility there of showing the political will to take drastic measures to achieve as quickly as possible zero net greenhouse gas emissions. Referring specifically to fires in the Amazon region Francis called on everyone to take up these opportunities to respond to the cry of the poor and of our earth! Egoism and self interest have turned creation a place of encounter and sharing into an arena of competition and conflict he said. In this way the environment itself is endangered something good in Gods eyes has become something to be exploited in human hands. Deterioration has increased in recent decades constant pollution the continued use of fossil fuels intensive agricultural exploitation and deforestation are causing global temperatures to rise above safe levels he said. The pontiff went on to enumerate the effects of climate change an increase in the intensity and frequency of extreme weather phenomena the desertification of the soil melting of glaciers scarcity of water neglect of water basins and the considerable presence of plastic and microplastics in the oceans. All of these testify to the urgent need for interventions that can no longer be postponed he warned.	True	True	True	True	True
New U.S. Climate Assessment Forecasts Dire Effects On Economy Health The Trump administration released a major climate assessment on Black Friday the culmination of years of research by the country's top climate scientists. It's well over 1000 pages and touches on a daunting range of topics. President Trump said Monday that he has read parts of it. It's fine he told reporters at the White House although he said he doesn't believe the report's assessment that climate change will cause devastating economic impacts for the U.S. The report is required by Congress every four years and is issued by 13 federal agencies and the U.S. Global Change Research Program. This one marks the most detailed and blunt assessment yet of the dangers of unchecked global warming. Climate change is happening here and now co author Katherine Hayhoe of Texas Tech University told Weekend Edition Saturday. It is affecting all of us no matter where we live. And the more climate changes the more serious and even more dangerous the impacts will become. Here are some key points. Some parts of the U.S. economy could suffer hundreds of billions of dollars in annual losses by the end of the century unless global greenhouse gas emissions are substantially reduced the report finds. Already there's the impact of increasingly frequent and intense extreme weather events. The report notes that large wildfires are more frequent and that the areas burned by lightning ignited fires are expected to increase by at least 30 percent by 2060. The costs for fighting fires and forest management are on the rise see chart. But there are other less obvious risks. Don't see the graphic above? Click here Increasing rain and humidity could cause agricultural productivity to fall in the Midwest and warming oceans will hurt fisheries. Along the coasts more severe flooding threatens billions of dollars' worth of property and infrastructure which in turn could affect the economic stability of local governments businesses and the broader economy. Extreme weather events could also cause price spikes and interrupt international trade. As an example the report notes that flooding in Thailand in 2011 disrupted production of Ford and Honda vehicles in the U.S. and cost a U.S. based hard drive manufacturer 199 million in losses. Again the rise of extreme events like wildfires floods and storm surges poses the most immediate danger to public health and well being. The report finds that with continued warming heat related deaths will increase. The warming climate and more frequent and intense rain might also expand the range of ticks and mosquitoes exposing more people to diseases like West Nile dengue fever chikungunya and Lyme. Climate change could also worsen harmful ozone levels and air pollution. That could send more people to the hospital for aggravated asthma and respiratory or cardiovascular problems and could even increase premature deaths. As with so many climate impacts the report notes that those most at risk include children the elderly and low income communities. U.S. infrastructure was not built for these changes Much of America's infrastructure is already aging and deteriorating and it is taking a pounding from extreme weather. In some places more intense rain and saltwater intrusion have led to dam failures bridge and road closures and power outages. Heavier downpours can also overwhelm sewer systems causing untreated water to flow into rivers. In the West prolonged drought has forced utilities to cut back on electricity production from hydropower. Extreme heat and higher demand can also raise the risk of power outages. The report notes that power outages can affect drinking water treatment among many other services people take for granted. Intense rain flooding and heat can also hurt the nation's vast network of transportation shutting down major highways and coastal airports and halting freight movement. The report like most climate studies offers different scenarios for how fast the climate will change and by how much. The bigger the change the greater the consequences for everything from heat waves to hurricanes. The White House issued a statement criticizing the report as largely based on the most extreme scenario for emissions of greenhouse gases. The report is in fact based mostly on two scenarios One is the most severe view in which little or no effort is made to lower emissions. However it also uses a more moderate scenario one that sees more aggressive actions to reduce emissions than are currently underway less fossil fuel use for example or more efficient vehicles and buildings. And for some of its chapters the report considers a third far rosier future where emissions are drastically reduced and even where greenhouse gases are pulled back out of the atmosphere. Effects on people and the economy are considerably less dire under these scenarios than in the most severe one. Some communities are already adapting The good news in this dire report is that scores of local and state governments are taking action to lower their own carbon emissions and cope with climate impacts. Some of those impacts will get worse still no matter what as they are locked in due to historical emissions. But the report makes clear that changes today can make a big difference. It's absolutely not too late to take action says Brenda Ekwurzel a co author and senior climate scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists. The report states that more than half the projected damages of coastal property are estimated to be avoidable through well timed adaptation measures. But Ekwurzel cautions that we can't merely adapt our way out of this mess. The cost of adaptation could be quite high and it may never be enough she says. But costs will really start skyrocketing if we don't start reining in emissions.	True	False	False	True	True
A geophysics professor from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology says that hes run the numbers on humanity facing a mass extinction event and the numbers are not good. According to Digital Trends a mass extinction eventis an event in which a large number of species become extinct at once as was the case with the death of thedinosaurs65 million years ago. Daniel Rothman told the publication that we are approaching a threshold of catastrophe in the carbon cycle similar to that of the five previous periods of mass extinction over the last 540 million years. The study identifies two thresholds for major carbon cycle changeRothmansaid. One is a critical rate of change corresponding to the rate at which CO2 is added to the oceanatmosphere system. The other a critical size or mass corresponds to the total carbon added to the oceans. Exceeding the critical rate at slow time scales much greater than about 10000 years or exceeding the critical size at fast time scales much less than about 10000 years is associated with mass extinction he explained. The MIT research paper predicts that the critical mass about 300 gigatons of carbon he concluded will likely be exceeded sometime this century. If so following the papers logic the marine carbon cycle would proceed to follow a trajectory which could excite a mass extinction over a period of about 10000 years. Rothman goes on to explain that the tipping point of unknown territory wont take that long he predicts it will come as soon as 2100 or sooner. Rothman says thatdecreasing carbon emissions would be the best way to try to avoid the catastrophe. Those who point to discrepancies in the global warming narrative have also noted that many of the solutions offered by climate change advocates do very little to actually stop carbon emissions and turn back the clock. They also cite previous doomsday scenarios offered by alarmist scientists that didnt come to fruition including acid rain and global cooling.	False	True	False	True	False
In an effort to suppress federal climate research the Trump administration newstrump administration will direct state agencies to no longer consider worst case scenarios of global warming. Climate modelers working for federal agencies will only be permitted to forecast to 2040 decades before the as much as 8C degrees of global warming that could take place by 2100 if we continue on our current path. William Happer most recently famous for complaining trump science advisor compares climate science 1793497686 that the demonization of carbon dioxide really differs little from the Nazi persecution of the Jews will lead a team charged with reviewing the science produced by government researchers no doubt hunting for references to the disastrous sea level rise crop failures and health impacts continued warming stands to create. The irony in all of this is that Trump Happer and company may have a firmer grasp on the epic scope of these climate projections than many Democrats. As Naomi Klein argues even the rights fervent conspiracy theorists tend to understand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are for business as usual which has distributed its profits among elites of both parties. Members of Trumps cabinet Klein has written donald trump tax cuts climate change republican ideology capitalism with their desperate need to deny the reality of global warming or belittle its implications nonetheless understand something that is fundamentally true. To avert climate chaos we need to challenge the free market fundamentalism that has conquered the world since the 1980s. For all their bluster and junk science Republican decision makers have a clear sense for their own self interest and just how much is at stake for them and the rest of the 1. Consider Happer himself a retired physicist who has spent his post academy days hopping between various climate denying thinktanks a good many of them funded by the fossil fuel industry. In 2015 Greenpeace activists duped Happer into agreeing to write a report on the benefits of carbon dioxide for a fictional oil company. The real coal company Peabody Energy has paid him to deliver testimony at a state hearing in Minnesota and Happer has joined hands with groups like the Heritage Foundation the Cato Institute and the Competitive Enterprise Institute all recipients of ample industry funding to bolster Trumps agenda and cast doubt on the scientific consensus. As the New York Times reported in its article on the White Houses new climate plans both Happer and John Bolton who tapped him for the administration have received generous support from the Mercers the rightwing family credited with both spreading climate denial and helping fuel the opioid epidemic. We cant know whether Happer genuinely believes the nonsense hes spouting or is just being paid well enough to sound like he does. The answer doesnt really matter. Any clear eyed assessment of what the science is telling us spells out who the winners and losers of rapid decarbonization would be. To cap warming at around 2C a threshold many already dealing with climate impacts argue is too high about three quarters of known fossil fuel reserves will need to be kept underground a reality that if realized as public policy would crater the stock price of energy companies. Climate scientist Kevin Anderson has estimated that if the top 10 of greenhouse gas emitters were to live like the average European an improvement even for many of us in the United States global emissions could decline by a third. It is possible climate change new ipcc report wxcindex.html with the laws of chemistry and physics according to IPCC scientists to limit warming to the boldly ambitious target of 1.5C. The problem is our politics and how much of a stranglehold the fossil fuel executives with the most to lose from decarbonization have over them. Establishment Democrats meanwhile are asleep at the wheel. The pitch for taking on the climate challenge is a compelling one for reasons well beyond the fact that it could prevent runaway catastrophe. The Green New Deal promises a well paid job for everyone who wants one a real mass transit system clean and affordable energy and universal healthcare a necessity as people leave their jobs to find new work in the transition away from fossil fuels. While several Democratic primary contenders have embraced the Green New Deal and begun proposing their own plans the frontrunner in that race Joe Biden and the Democrats congressional leadership have been cooler toward it offering neither a decarbonization plan nor a compelling reason for voters to get behind them come 2020. Thats a dead end for the planet but also for the partys political prospects. With Donald Trump at their helm Republicans will keep denying climate change because it represents a dire threat to their fossil fuel donors bottom lines. Democratic leadership would do well to follow the lead of their partys insurgent progressive wing and take the climate threat as seriously. 	True	False	False	False	False
LONDONSEOUL Reuters Temperatures are likely to rise by 1.5 degrees Celsius between 2030 and 2052 if global warming continues at its current pace and if the world fails to take rapid and unprecedented measures to stem the increase a U.N. report said on Monday. The U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC met last week in Incheon South Korea to finalize the report prepared at the request of governments in 2015 when a global pact to tackle climate change was agreed. The report is seen as the main scientific guide for government policymakers on how to implement the 2015 Paris Agreement. The Paris pact aims to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2C above pre industrial levels while seeking to tighten the goal to 1.5C. There has already been a rise of 1C since the mid 1800s as industrialization lifted emissions of carbon dioxide CO2 the main greenhouse gas blamed for climate change. A rise of 1.5C would still carry climate related risks for nature and mankind but the risks would be lower than a rise of 2C the report summary said. Meeting the 1.5C limit required rapid far reaching and unprecedented change in land and energy use industry buildings transport and cities it said adding temperatures would be 1.5C higher between 2030 and 2052 at the current pace. The targets agreed in Paris on cutting emissions would not be enough even if there were larger and more ambitious cuts after 2030 it said. To contain warming at 1.5C manmade global net carbon dioxide emissions would need to fall by about 45 percent by 2030 from 2010 levels and reach net zero by mid century. Any additional emissions would require removing CO2 from the air. Limiting warming to 1.5C is possible within the laws of chemistry and physics but doing so would require unprecedented changes said Jim Skea co chair of the IPCC working group which assesses climate change mitigation. The summary said renewable energy would need to supply 70 to 85 percent of electricity by 2050 to stay within a 1.5C limit compared with about 25 percent now. Using carbon capture and storage CCS technology the share of gas fired power would need to be cut to 8 percent and coal to between 0 and 2 percent. There was no mention of oil in this context in the summary. If the average global temperature temporarily exceeded 1.5C additional carbon removal techniques would be required to return warming to below 1.5C by 2100. But the report said the efficacy of measures such as planting forests bioenergy use or capturing and storing CO2 were unproven at a large scale and carried some risks. Steps like reflecting incoming solar radiation back into space were not assessed because of the uncertainties about using such technology the report said. It said keeping the rise in temperature to 1.5C would mean sea levels by 2100 would be 10 cm lower than if the warming was 2C the likelihood of an Arctic Ocean free of sea ice in summer would be once per century not at least once a decade and coral reefs would decline by 70 90 percent instead of being virtually wiped out. The report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it said Amjad Abdulla the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	True	False	False	True	False
AnOregon climate change bill that prompted 12 Republican lawmakers to flee the Statehouse in Salem last weekhas hit yet another snagSenate President Peter Courtney a Democrat announced Tuesday that the chamber did not have enough votes to pass the legislation. The cap and trade program intended to rein in industrial carbon emissions lost traction even with the state's Democratic senators according to Courtney sparking protesters who were initially demanding that Republicans return to the floor for a vote to begin chantingPeter Courtney's got to go. I've done as much as I can and I'll continue to tryCourtney said. RUNAWAY OREGON REPUBLICAN SAYS LAWMAKERS WON'T RETURN TO STATE UNTIL 'EXPENSIVE' CARBON TAX BILL SCRAPPED Gov. Kate Brown also a Democratauthorized the state police to round up the 12 Republicans who walked out of the Statehousein protest of the bill Thursday and bring them back to the Senate floor for a vote but to no avail. If passed the measure would make Oregon the second state in the nation after California to implement such a program. Republicans fled the Senate some even claiming to the leave the state refusing to sign off on a bill that wouldlimit emissions and establishpollution permitsor allowances for each ton of carbon an industry plans to emit. Speaking to Fox Friends from an undisclosed location Tuesday Republican state Sen.Tim Knopp criticizedthe bill and insistedthat he and his GOP colleagues would continue to stymie the state legislative process which requires20 members in the Senate in order to constitute as a quorum in order to proceed unless the carbon tax is scrapped and a bipartisan solution is reached. The bill would limit greenhouse gas emissions and auction pollution allowances for carbon that businesses want to emit with a lowering cap. The bill would reduce emissions to 45 percent below 1990 levels by 2035 and 80 percent by 2050. Critics say it would hurt the business community and exacerbate a divide between liberalurban areas and conservative rural parts of the state. All we're saying is it shouldn't cost thousands of manufacturing jobs raise the gas tax by 20 cents a gallon to start out with and raise natural gas prices for people who heat their home by almost 50 percent. We think there's a better way to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and so were holding out Knopp said. And the only way we could do that and stop this vote is by not providing a quorum for Democrats to roll over us.. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Protesters in support of the climate bill were disappointed Tuesday after Courtney's announcement despite assurances by Democratic lawmakers who insisted they would find a path forward for the bill. The walkout going on six days also leaves several other pieces of legislation including the state budget up in the air. Thosematters need to be resolved before the Legislative session ends at the end of the week.	False	True	True	True	False
On Thursday President Donald J. Trump rejected failed former President Obamasdisastrous Paris global warmingdeal that sought to burden our economy with heavy regulations and taxes all to push the lefts global warming hysteria. In a Rose Garden speech President Trump said he rejected the global warming agreement because I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh not Paris words that the global warming alarmists cannot comprehend. Now a new report sheds some more light into why President Trump rejected the globalist scam and its incrediblespecifically he wanted to stick it to holier than thou elites in America specifically leftists who flyaround in private jets drive SUVs and live in massive mansions yet lecture Americans about their environmental impact. This is religion for the political left and our supporters are constantly being asked to change their behavior a top White House official told Axios who added that snarky comments from European leaders also encouraged Trump to withdraw. The White House official said Trump resented the corporate critics who ride in fossil fuel guzzling planes and SUVs then act holier than thou according to Axios. Trump announced he would withdraw the U.S. from the Paris agreement which the Obama administration joined in 2016 after years of negotiating with United Nations member countries. Some 147 countries have ratified the Paris agreement. Trump said the Paris agreement was poorly negotiated and would harm the U.S. economy. Trump said the deal transferred wealth from the U.S. to economic rivals like China and India. I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh not Paris Trump said. Its also important to note that the Obama administration didnt have the authority to commit the United States to a treaty without being ratified by the Senate a crucial point that the liberal media deliberately ignores in order to attack President Trump. Its been rumored that Trumps liberal son in law Jared Kushner as well as his daughter Ivanka and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson pushed the President to remain in the global warming deal but the President chose the American people instead. For years liberals like Al Gore and Leonardo DiCaprio have lectured the American public on global warming yet these hypocrites have bigger carbon footprints than millions of poorer peoplecombined traveling around the world in private jets accompanied by a fleet of SUVs. Throughout much of the 2016 campaign then candidate Donald Trump railed against corporate and global elitists who want to dictate their liberal agenda onto the American public with no understanding of how such liberal policies would harm our economy and the Americanpeople. President Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal is a giant middle finger to elitists all around the world who want America to suffer simply to promote their global warming alarmism. Are you glad President Trump rejected the Paris deal? Share your thoughts below!	True	False	False	True	True
Salvage expert Nick Sloane is the brains behind a scheme to tow a massive iceberg from Antarctica to Cape Town to alleviate the South African city's drought AFP PhotoRODGER BOSCH Cape Town AFP It is a plan as crazy as the situation is desperate towing an iceberg from Antarctica to Cape Town to supply fresh water to a city in the grip of drought. Earlier this year Cape Town came within weeks of shutting off all its taps and forcing residents to queue for water rations at public standpipes. The cut off was narrowly averted as people scrambled to reduce their water usage and Autumn rains saved the day. But the threat is expected to return to the coastal South African city again next year and beyond. The idea sounds crazy admits maverick salvage expert Nick Sloane the brains behind the tow an iceberg scheme. But if you look at the fine details it is not so crazy. Sloane suggests wrapping the iceberg in a textile insulation skirt to stop it melting and using a supertanker and two tugboats to drag it 2000 kilometres 1200 miles towards Cape Town using prevailing ocean currents. The iceberg carefully selected by drones and radiography scans would be about one kilometre in length 500 metres across and up to 250 metres deep with a flat tabletop surface. Melted water could be gathered each day using collection channels and a milling machine to create ice slurry producing 150 million litres of usable water every day for a year. Sloane's idea might be dismissed as mere fantasy. But the 56 year old Zambian South African has a reputation for taking on the impossible after he re floated the giant Costa Concordia cruise ship that capsized in 2012 off the Tuscan island of Giglio killing 32 people one of the world's largest and most complex maritime salvage operations. Icebergs are made of the purest freshwater on earth the founder of Sloane Marine Ltd said earnestly. Thousands break off every year. Mother Nature has been teasing mankind with this for a long time saying 'this is here'. He estimates it would cost 100 million 86 million euros to haul an iceberg on a journey that could take up to three months and another 50 60 million to harvest the water for one year as it melts. In Russia they have pushed icebergs away from oil installations but small ones they are about half a million tons. Here we are talking about 100 million tons said Sloane. To tackle the drought Cape Town has enacted measures ranging from building seawater desalination plants to issuing strict instructions to only flush toilets when necessary. But whether Cape Town authorities will be persuaded to embrace the iceberg project is unclear. At this stage it appears to us that in fact the groundwater or desalination options are cheaper or at least equal cost price said Cape Town's deputy mayor Ian Neilson. There are also questions on how the water from the iceberg will be channelled into the city's distribution system. Another problem is that there is no guarantee that by the time the iceberg is hauled to Cape Town it will still be able to produce the promised volumes of water. Sloane's plan is to tow the giant iceberg some 150 km further north to South Africa's St. Helena Bay where the cold Benguela Current keeps water at around zero degrees Celsius. Once there the iceberg could be anchored in an old submarine channel suggests Sloane. As the iceberg melts water will be collected each day pumped into tankers and driven to Cape Town. It won't sort out Cape Town's crisis but it will be about 20 to 30 percent of their annual needs said Sloane. The project is crazy no question said Olav Orheim a Norwegian glaciologist with four decades of experience who is working on a similar project for Saudi Arabia. Never has such a large iceberg been towed indeed the towing of ice to supply drinking water would be a first and it is unknown if it would withstand ocean currents or simply fracture in transit. But said Orheim it was no longer unrealistic because we know so much more now than when we started this kind of research 40 years ago. It is a high risk project but also one which may have a very high reward at the end said Orheim. For Wolfgang Foerg the chief executive of Swiss company Water Vision which has teamed up with Sloane the project has huge potential in the face of ever more frequent drought. As for Sloane he is ready for the green light. If they tell us to go now we can have it here by Easter 2019 he said.	False	False	False	True	True
In January Californias Jerry Brown became the first governor in the states history to declare a state of emergency for a drought and a flood simultaneously. On Friday Brown lifted the drought emergency in all but four counties Fresno Kings Tulare and Tuolumne counties. But rather than lift the burdensome water regulations implemented to cope with the drought he announced that many of those regulations would remain intact even though the flood emergency remains. Browns latest plan Making Water Conservation a California Way of Life allows the state to oversee conservation goals it sets in urban water management agencies as well as to permanently prohibit activities it deems wasteful of the water supply. It also creates more stringent standards for establishing these water use goals. Brown has indicated that he hopes to expand the states water supply with new sources of water but his focus on making conservation a way of life in a time when Californias streets are flooding suggests otherwise. Certainly Californians and everyone else ought to find ways to responsibly use natural resources such as water. Mandating conservation however is drastically different from incentivizing it. Even though there is no longer a drought state of emergency in their state Californians will be fined if they wash their automobiles with hoses not equipped with a shut off nozzle water lawns in a way that results in water run off or hose off sidewalks. The plan also gives urban government agencies until 2025 to comply with their conservation targets limiting the water usage of Californians. But water conservation can only go so far. California ought to begin expanding its water supply rather than incessantly regulate how citizens use water especially now that the governor doesnt retain the broad powers spelled out under the drought state of emergency Browns flood state of emergency doesnt give him the same power to regulate water use. John Woodling of the Sacramento Regional Water Authority told the Sacramento Bee that Browns assertion of state power in this area will give it permanent unchecked control over local water management decisions. And as Browns plan begins to drive water consumption down Woodling said it could hurt the economy. Governor Brown has pushed two contradictory agendas for months. Now even he has concluded that California is no longer in a drought. Its time for these conservation regulations to be lifted and for the state to do what it should have done a long time ago look to expand its water supply.	True	True	False	False	True
Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson the former chief executive of Exxon Mobil has also spoken in favor of keeping a seat at the table in the climate pact and in recent days major corporations have stepped forward to embrace that position. While no decision has been made experts tracking it say that view is gaining traction. We do not currently believe the Trump administration plans to withdraw from either Paris agreement wrote Kevin Book an analyst at ClearView Energy Partners a Washington firm in a memo to clients on Monday. While Mr. Trump does not have the power to undo a multilateral United Nations accord he could withdraw the worlds largest economy from the pact weakening it substantially. Such a move would win cheers from the nations most powerful conservative political advocates and give Mr. Trump bragging rights in coal country. But withdrawing from the landmark accord that committed nearly every nation to take action against planet warming emissions could create diplomatic blowback while weakening American leadership in arenas far afield from energy and the environment. Besides keeping the United States name on the accord does not obligate the Trump administration to abide by the ambitious emissions control pledges of Mr. Trumps predecessor Barack Obama. At least one senior White House climate policy adviser George David Banks has advocated staying in the agreement while replacing the Obama plan with a weaker more industry friendly pledge. Over recent weeks Mr. Banks has asked top officials at several major corporations including Exxon Mobil who have similar views to submit letters to the White House confirming their support of staying in the Paris deal even if in a modified form. In response Peter Trelenberg the manager of environmental policy and planning at Exxon Mobil wrote to Mr. Banks Exxon Mobil supports the Paris agreement as an effective framework for addressing the risks of climate change. Royal Dutch Shell and BP European companies with significant investments in the United States have also endorsed the accord. Last month Representative Kevin Cramer a Republican from oil gas and coal rich North Dakota wrote The U.S. should present a new pledge that does no harm to our economy. Mr. Cramer an early supporter of Donald J. Trump advised Mr. Trump on energy issues during his presidential campaign. Colin Marshall the chief executive of Cloud Peak a major coal producer in Wyoming the nations largest coal mining state also wrote to Mr. Trump By remaining in the Paris agreement albeit with a much different pledge on emissions you can help shape a more rational international approach to climate policy. Regardless of his decision Mr. Trump has already undermined the United States ability to meet its Paris pledge. Mr. Obama declared that the United States would reduce its planet warming carbon pollution about 26 percent from 2005 levels by 2025. Its primary policy for meeting that target would be the Clean Power Plan a set of Environmental Protection Agency regulations designed to shutter hundreds of heavily polluting coal fired power plants the nations chief source of greenhouse emissions. Last month Mr. Trump directed Scott Pruitt the head of the Environmental Protection Agency to begin the legal process of dismantling the Clean Power Plan. Whether or not the United States remains in the Paris pact it almost certainly will not be able to meet its pledged pollution reduction targets. Mr. Pruitt has emerged as a leading voice for withdrawal from the Paris deal. Last week he told Fox News Its something we need to exit. That reflects the views of powerful conservative political advocacy groups such as Americans for Prosperity which is funded by the influential libertarian brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch. What we say to the White House is that its clearly a terrible agreement for the American people said Tim Phillips the president of Americans for Prosperity. That view is also backed by economists at the Heritage Foundation the conservative think tank that has supplied the Trump administration with many of its policy proposals. Harold G. Hamm the chief executive of Continental Resources and a Trump campaign adviser has also condemned the pact. Cancel the Paris climate treaty and any other agreements entered into unilaterally and without the consent of Congress Mr. Hamm wrote in a letter to Mr. Trump before his inauguration. Bob Murray the chief executive of the coal company Murray Energy who is personally close with the president has also strongly criticized the deal. Mr. Book the analyst noted that the risks of withdrawing from the Paris deal include not only diplomatic ill will but also the possibility of trade reprisals. Countries that tax emissions of carbon dioxide pollution could place a carbon tariff on imports of American made goods. The European Union currently charges polluters fees for carbon emissions while China Mexico and Canada are in the process of carrying out such programs. If the U.S. were to pull out it would do so in the context that would invite trade reprisals Mr. Book said. It could lead to a carbon tariff trade war. Daniel M. Bodansky an expert in international environmental agreements at Arizona State University said that remaining in the Paris deal but weakening the United States commitment could still have the effect of generating some ill will but without the repercussions of trade sanctions. They could just submit a new plan he said. People internationally would not be happy but theyd be a lot less unhappy than if the U.S. actually pulled out.	True	True	False	True	True
Climate Report Warns Of Extreme Weather Displacement Of Millions Without Action Some of the world's top climate scientists have concluded that global warming is likely to reach dangerous levels unless new technologies are developed to remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. The United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC says pledges from the world's governments to reduce greenhouse gases made in Paris in 2015 aren't enough to keep global warming from rising more than 1.5 degrees Celsius 2.7 degrees F above pre industrial temperatures. That was the Paris agreement's most ambitious target a 2 degree C rise was established as a more practical goal. But even with a 1.5 degree C increase the world can expect serious changes to weather sea levels agriculture and natural eco systems according to a report issued Monday following an IPCC meeting in South Korea. Limiting warming to 1.5 C is possible within the laws of chemistry and physics says Jim Skea of Imperial College London one of the authors of the report but doing so would require unprecedented changes. Scientists and climate researchers have long doubted that the 1.5 degree C goal was practical or economically feasible. Their new report lays out the difficulty in stark detail it would require a 40 50 percent reduction in emissions by 2030 global emissions are currently rising. It would mean a carbon neutral world one with no net additional greenhouse gases in the atmosphere by 2050. They now say that scenario is very unlikely without new measures and technologies to remove greenhouse gases from the air some of which have yet to be invented. We have a monumental task in front of us says co author Natalie Mahowald from Cornell University but it is not impossible. In 50 years she says it's going to be very different. This is our chance to decide what that road will look like. The IPCC report holds out hope that if the global climate warms more than the 1.5 degree or even the 2 degree target this overshoot could be reversed with carbon removal techniques. It suggests numerous ways to take carbon dioxide CO2 the leading greenhouse gas out of the atmosphere. Growing more forests which absorb CO2 is one tactic. But research shows that the amount of land needed for that would be formidable. Another possibility involves burning biomass to make electricity instead of using fossil fuels. Currently about 1 percent of electricity in the U.S. is made that way using things like waste wood and agricultural material. It's expensive however. Crops like corn are now turned into ethanol but that raises food prices. To be economical the biomass would have to be agricultural waste or special crops like switchgrass that don't compete with food crops. There are experimental methods now that can take CO2 directly out of the air after which it could be buried. But billions of tons of CO2 would have to come out and these techniques now cost as much as 1000 to extract a single ton of CO2 according to Howard Herzog an engineer at MIT who specializes in these carbon capture technologies. CO2 is a tiny percentage of the air Herzog likens the technique to removing 400 CO2 marbles from a pile of one million marbles. The best way to remove CO2 from the air he says in his book Carbon Capture is to not release it into the air in the first place. Herzog calls most of these extraction ideas more of a hope than a reality. He says it comes down to cost and it's a lot cheaper to take it out now by reducing emissions than in the future. But most governments now fear the cost of a global overhaul of the world's energy economy in the short time needed to meet the Paris climate goals. As the report concludes There is no simple answer to the questions of whether it is feasible to limit warming to 1.5 C and to adapt to the consequences.... However it does make clear the consequences of warming above that level more heat waves more severe rain and snow events higher sea levels damage to agriculture and displacement of millions of people.	True	False	False	True	False
A little over a year agoI wrote that President Trump saved the planetwhen he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate agreement. The decision I argued enabled the free market to do exactly what liberals want Empower individuals to better the environment without government intervention. As individuals we are taking steps to protect the environment by choice not by mandate and going green is paying off. According to the Energy Information Administrations EIA latest monthly energy report U.S. carbon dioxide emissions are at their lowest point since 1992. Per capita carbon emissions are the lowest theyve been since 1950. Were also outpacing our allies many of whom criticized President Trumps decision to put America first. In the last year alone U.S. carbon emissions fell more than 0.5 percent while European emissionsrose 1.5 percent. Its the height of irony given Europes virtue signaling last year. After President Trump shredded his predecessors unconstitutional treaty the globalist leaders of France Germany and Italyclaimedit cannot be renegotiated. They referred to the irreversible agreement as a vital instrument for our planet societies and economies. The globalist decree would have left us spending trillions of dollars a year to mitigate a rise in global temperatures without really mitigating it at all. The Paris climate agreement was expected to drop temperatures byone fifth of a degreeover the next century. Apparently it wasnt such a vital instrument after all. Europe is failing to pull its weight as Americanscut pollution to historic lows. The decline in U.S. carbon emissions is a testament to the free markets enduring power. There is nothing more vital for environmental protection than our freedom to protect the environment as individuals without Big Government and its endless red tape. Anti Trump liberals and conservatives alike are investing in renewable energy choosing hybrid vehicles over gas guzzlers and encouraging their neighbors to do the same. Were cutting down on waste like never before. Were reusing more than ever. And were recycling recycling recycling. This year the environmental industry is expected togrow five percent to 407 billion without the Paris agreement. By 2020 the waste management segment alone is projected to surpass 70 billion in economic activity with an average annual growth rate of 3.6 percent. Corporate America is doing its part. Tesla is working on theworlds largest battery farmin the California desert reaffirming its commitment to electric vehicles and an energy grid powered by renewable options. The new power plant will be capable of producing up to 1.1 GWh of electricity enough energy for millions of homes. Tesla isnt alone. Last year 19 companiesannounced deals with energy providersto build 2.78 gigawatts worth of solar and wind generating capacity. At least 22 companies in the Fortune 500 have committed to buying enough renewable energy to match 100 percent of their electricity use moving forward. Earlier this year oil and gas companies such as ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shellmet with Pope Francisto discuss climate change and put concrete solutions on the table. Theyrebacking up their words ExxonMobil is developing renewable oils from genetically engineered algae while Royal Dutch Shell vows to become a leading supplier of renewable electricity. Going green is creating new jobs and new industries to boot. As always free market forces outperform the unfunded mandates and taxpayer funded job killing enforcement bureaucracies of Big Government. Even as the Left demands more environmental regulations President Trump is wise to side with the free market. When individuals are free to choose when and how to adjust their daily lives to protect the environment without government compulsion requiring it the environment reaps the benefits. When private enterprise is free to experiment and innovate we see a stronger economy and a real commitment to environmental action. President Trump understands environmental protection is impossible without individual action and private innovation. Its because of free enterprise the environmental industry is as large as it is todayand growing. By protecting individual freedom from government regulation President Trump is saving our jobs and the environment to boot. DanBackeris a veteran campaign counsel who has worked for more than 100 candidates PACs and political organizations including Great America PAC and the Committee to Defend the President. He is founding attorney of political.law a campaign finance and political law firm. The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	False	False	False	True	True
Speaking at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow slammed the progressive proposal that was recently introduced by Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez of New York and Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts. Kudlow said the deal will knock out energy transportation airlines jobs businesses. We'll probably lose 10 to 15 of our GDP. It's remarkable. The package of legislation is aimed at among other things addressing climate change. It would phase out fossil fuel use and calls for the elimination of greenhouse gas emissions and pollution in agriculture transportation manufacturing and construction. The deal describes a 10 year economic mobilization that would overhaul the nation's infrastructure and build new layers into the existing social safety net. It calls for the creation of millions of new high wage jobs to help wipe out poverty. The resolution co sponsored by several Democrats running for President in 2020 has been heavily criticized by those on the right. Kudlow likened the deal to socialism and called for the American people to put socialism on trial and convict it. The resolution proposes providing all people of the United States with i high quality health care ii affordable safe and adequate housing iii economic security and iv access to clean water clean air healthy and affordable food and nature. The deal proposes guaranteeing a job with a family sustaining wage adequate family and medical leave paid vacations and retirement security to all people of the United States. Kudlow said universal health care and ending private insurance were also crazy ideas citing high costs. He said guaranteed jobs free to those who don't want to work probably cost 45 trillion. Earlier this week Ivanka Trump a senior White House adviser and the President's daughter was asked about the Green New Deal proposal and what she would say to people who are enticed by the proposal's job guarantee. In response Ivanka Trump said I don't think most Americans in their heart want to be given something adding People want to work for what they get so I think this idea of a guaranteed minimum is not something most people want. Ocasio Cortez fired back on Twitter and said A living wage isn't a gift it's a right. Workers are often paid far less than the value they create.	True	False	False	False	False
Celebrities often claim to be concerned about the environment usually without changing their lavish lifestyles or pollution. During a telethon fundraiser on Sept. 12 for Harvey and Irma relief celebrities like Beyonce linked manmade climate change to the hurricanes. But the very stars participating in the telethon burn massive amounts of carbon dioxide by their extravagant lifestyles just as Daily Mail reported on Sept. 13. The effects of climate change are playing out around the world every day Beyonce claimed in a pre recorded message. But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony? The A list celebrities who starred in the telethon for those affected by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma have clocked up hundreds of thousands of air miles which have fuelled rising temperatures and helped create devastating storms Daily Mail foreign reporter Gareth Davies wrote. Climate change activists often claim carbon emissions from driving and flying are a significant cause of man made warming. Davies found that in just the past year Leonardo DiCaprio George Clooney Justin Bieber and Beyonce produced at least 52.11 tons of carbon dioxide with their air travel alone. Biebers jet setting had the highest carbon footprint an egregious 22 tons. In comparison the average Americans total carbon footprint is 20 tons. According to Davies if driving pollution from their concerts or films and the electric in their homes are considered the total was likely to be astronomic. Although DiCaprio is a self proclaimed environmentalist he continued to live an incompatible lifestyle of massive carbon emissions. For the 2017 Oscars DiCaprio and a fellow actor flew an someone 15000 miles round trip to tidy their eyebrows. The actor also asked if are we too late to stop climate change and blasted the supposed corporate greed of the coal oil and gas industries in January 2016. All while owning multiple mansions vacationing on yachts and flying thousands of miles in private jets. Even Forbes noted DiCaprio himself is one of those big polluters which diminishes his moral authority to lecture others on reducing their own carbon emissions in March 2016. Forbes also challenged DiCaprios claim that he only produces 11 tons of carbon annually. Clooney criticized global warming skeptics as stupid and ridiculous in 2013. Despite his rhetoric on climate change however the actor and his wife Amal owned eight homes as of March 2016 according to the Daily Mail. Other celebrities like Julia Roberts are also eco hypocrites. In 2011 she co wrote a USA Today op ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change. Yet she has owned five homes and a private jet all at the same time. More than 45 celebrities took part in the fundraiser which brought in more than 44 million. All of the celebrities most likely live far more lavish carbon burning lives than average Americans.	True	False	False	True	False
Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs newly released Green New Deal resolution has gotten a lot of attention for its 100 percent renewable energy goal but the bill also vaguely references another source of emissions. The resolution calls for aWorld War II style mobilization effort to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural operations. If thats the case that means any subsequent Green New Deal legislation would have to deal with a major source of methane emissions cow flatulence and burps. We set a goal to get to net zero rather than zero emissions in 10 years because we arent sure that well be able to fully get rid of farting cows and airplanes that fast reads the initial version of the resolutions fact sheet. However Ocasio Cortez staffers have since removed farting from fact sheet. Methane makes up 10 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for global warming. Enteric fermentation the digestive process in cows and other ruminant animals is the largest source of U.S. methane emissions according to Environmental Protection Agency EPA data. EPA says cattle account for the majority of methane emissions in the United States for this source category referring to emissions from enteric fermentation.Most methane from cows comes from their burps not farts.RELATED Alexandria Ocasio Cortez Green New Deal Is About Social Justice Being a non binding resolution the Green New Deal doesnt offer any specifics on how livestock emissions would be phased down or eliminated. The question then becomes How do you eliminate emissions from cows sheep and other animals? Certainly environmental groups have increasingly called for getting beef out of peoples diets in the name of the climate but there are legitimate worries doing so would be a net negative on overall public health. Some scientists have looked into reducing flatulence from ruminant animals. The U.S. government funded a 2014 study to find out why some types of sheep burped and farted more than others. The Obama administration released a plan to clamp down on methane emissions in 2014 which included programs to cut emissions from dairy operations. Republican lawmakers worried the Obama era effort could have resulted in new regulations or taxes on farmers. Methane is a more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide but makes up a much smaller slice of Americas emissions profile. Natural gas systems and landfills also emit methane which Democrats and environmentalists want to regulate more. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	False	True	True	False
Julin Castro is a Texan an attorney a former mayor of San Antonio juliC3A1n and former cabinet secretary Housing and Urban Development in the Obama administration juliC3A1n castro. He has an identical twin walking the halls of Congress a mother who is a civil rights activist castro unlikely journey.html and two young children boy hud secr julian castro wife welcome second child n276251. Castro a third generation Mexican American worked as an intern for one president Bill Clinton t.html?r2pagewantedall and delivered the keynote address transcript julian castros dnc keynote address at the Democratic national convention for another Barack Obama. He doesnt drink alcohol castro likes Jay Z and Billy Joel feature7340848 julian castro hud secretary interview music stars making difference presidential election donald trump hillary clinton and grew up a Philadelphia Eagles fan n castro talks wendy davis football rivalries and more. Now hes a presidential candidate too. Here is where Castro stands on some of the key issues of the 2020 election cycle. Climate change and energy Rejoin the Paris Climate Treaty. Work with businesses. Castro has criticized President Donald Trump span.orgvideo?440838 1julian castro delivers speech rally hampshire for withdrawing from the Paris climate change accord. Castros overall approach in public office was to try to convince businesses to increase their reliance on renewable energy voluntarily. While he was mayor of San Antonio the local utility committed to close a coal plant castro is obamas newest climate denizen452793 and embrace a 20 percent renewables goal. It is not clear if Castro supports a carbon tax or cap and trade policy to reduce carbon emissions. Education Establish universal pre K education. Provide two free years of higher education. As mayor of San Antonio Castro convinced voters to raise taxes one eighth of a cent to create the citys pre kindergarten program antonio pre k program mayor julian castro 215497 for four year olds. He supports universal pre kindergarten nationally transcript 19 rep adam smith rep lizstory?id60183722 and would like to make the first two years of higher education free. He has not yet offered specifics on his plans. Gun control Require universal background checks ban assault weapons. A longtime gun control advocate Castro has pushed for renewing the assault weapons ban joaqun castro call discussion gun lawsstory?id18007281 limiting high capacity magazines and requiring background checks at gun shows Health care Create a universal health care system Medicare for all. Castro has called for universal health care span.orgvideo?440838 1julian castro delivers speech rally hampshire also referring to it as Medicare for all transcript 19 rep adam smith rep lizstory?id60183722. He indicated he would consider paying for such a system by raising taxes on corporations and on the wealthiest 0.05 0.5 or 1 percent of Americans. Immigration ICE and the border Allow a path to citizenship house committee spars with san antonio mayor.html for most undocumented immigrants. Reconstitute U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE. Castro supports comprehensive immigration reform including a path to citizenship for most of the estimated 11 million undocumented people in the United States. Castro opposes Trumps border wall plan castro hopes us mexico partnership continues under trump and instead has proposed securing the border by using technology and a more efficient legal immigration process. When asked if he thinks ICE should be abolished as some Democrats argued in the run up to the 2018 midterms Castro told Bustle he thinks the agency needs to change its culture and be reconstituted. Social issues Abortion should remain legal after 20 weeks. Gay marriage is a protected right. Transgender Americans should be able to serve in the military. Castro is a Roman Catholic who supports legal abortion access and gay rights. He vigorously opposed a Texas law Davis Juli n Castro rally abortion rights 4660994.php to ban abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy and limit facilities and access to abortions in general. Castro has long supported same sex marriage serving as Grand Marshal parade.html of the 2009 San Antonio Gay Pride parade. In 2017 he tweeted that the military should allow Americans of all gender identities to serve in the military. Syria Withdraw U.S. presence over a planned period of time. In an appearance on NBCs Meet The Press last month Castro said it was time for us to pull out of Syria the press meet press december 23 2018 n951396 but insisted it must be on a planned timeline. He criticized Trumps sudden announcement of a potential withdrawal as not the way it should be done. Trade Renegotiate NAFTA. As mayor of San Antonio Castro strongly supported NAFTA policy facts about dnc keynote speaker julian castro?utmterm.b3d077e12f8a and expanding the trade deal. He has said span.orgvideo?445578 4 washington journal julian castro discusses federal housing policyplayEvent that he believes the agreement should be renegotiated to strengthen worker and environmental protections. 	False	True	True	True	False
As the Trump White House continues its cleanup of the mess foreign and domestic left behind by the Obama administration it should toss out a little noticed document that entangles the U.S. in some of the worst schemes ever cooked up by U.N. bureaucrats and their cronies in the global environmental movement. On September 16 2016 the Obama EPA entered into a memorandum of understanding MOU with the United Nations Environmental Programme UNEP. Concluded just a few weeks before the 2016 presidential election the MOU bears the signature for the U.S. of then EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy. In the document UNEP and the Obama EPA vow to consolidate further develop and intensify their cooperation and effectiveness to achieve their common goals and objectives in the field of the environment. And therein lies the problem. For the common goals and objectives shared by the U.N. body and the Obama administration are specifically crafted to hamstring American fossil fuel energy development promote an assortment of politically fashionable but otherwise uncompetitive green technologies and products and perpetuate the deplorable living conditions in the worlds poorest countries. An Instrument of the Paris Climate Accord The document was signed nine months after the adoption of the U.N. sponsored Paris climate accord and the wording of the MOU leaves little doubt that it was seen as an instrument to underscore Americas commitment to curtail its production and use of energy in the name of combatting climate change. Thus UNEP and the Obama EPA agreed to cooperate on responses to climate change including mitigating greenhouse gas emissions reducing short lived climate forcers and supporting adaptation and resilience to climate change. Taking these and similar steps the MOU says will enable the advance toward green economies and resource efficient societies through collaborative activities to promote and support sustainable consumption and production. In truth green economies are those with taxpayer subsidized and government mandated renewable energy primarily wind and solar. And what constitutes sustainable consumption and production is in the eyes of the beholding bureaucrat empowered either by the administrative regulatory state or by legislation adopted at the behest of deep pocketed special interests. All of this is to be pursued through jointly held symposia seminars workshops study tours collaborative research and development projects exchanges and training programs and other forms of cooperation that strengthen the bonds between UNEP and the U.S. Under the MOU each side is to name a Senior Coordinator to oversee the holding of regular joint meetings on matters of common interest. To make sure the two sides stay in touch such meetings are to take place at least once every six months in accordance with an agenda approved by them in advance of every meeting. The outfit the Obama administration teamed up within the MOU UNEP was founded in 1972 by wealthy Canadian businessman Maurice Strong it is headquartered in Nairobi Kenya and has an office conveniently located in Washington D.C. Strong 19292015 was Under Secretary General of the U.N. when he founded UNEP and was an early advocate for combatting what he said was human induced climate change then known as global warming. In keeping with Strongs vision UNEP has worked closely with the Bonn based United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC. For its part UNFCCC has enthusiastically spread climate alarmism and gone to extraordinary lengths to deny the residents of the worlds poorest access to reliable and affordable electricity and transportation fuel thereby perpetuating their poverty. Given UNEPs pedigree and the Obama administrations unbridled hostility to fossil fuels President Trump should scrap the UNEP EPA MOU. Trump and EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt inherited the MOU from their predecessors and are under no obligation to adhere to its content. The White House has already withdrawn from the Paris climate accord and President Trump chose to skip the climate change session at the recent G7 meeting in Quebec. Continued fealty to the Obama era MOU runs counter to the presidents goal of American global energy dominance which is anchored to our abundance of oil natural gas and coal. The ties that bound the UN and the Obama administration should not be allowed to constrain the choices of everyday Americans. Even if the MOU is non binding so too are the commitments all parties agreed to under the Paris climate accord. But recognizing the threat the Paris accord posed to U.S. energy security the Trump White House wisely walked away from it. The UNEP EPA memorandum is little more than an implementation tool of the Paris agreement and should suffer the same fate. Both are part of what is at its core a decidedly anti American agenda. Bonner R. Cohen Ph.D is a senior policy analyst with the Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow CFACT. The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	False	False	False	True	True
The actions of mankind could lead to the extinction of half of African birds and mammals by the end of 2100 a UN backed study has said. The report conducted by 550 experts from around the world said reduced biodiversity could affect people's quality of life. It also found 42 of land based animal and plant species in Europe and Central Asia have declined in the last decade. The findings come after the death of the last male northern white rhino. Despite the bleak findings the study also pointed to some successes in reversing declines in wildlife. The study by the Intergovernmental Science Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services IPBES showed forest cover in China and other parts of north east Asia had risen by more than 20 between 1990 and 2015. It also found that animals such as the amur leopard which were once on the verge of the extinction had grown in population. Speaking at the 2018 Biodiversity Summit in Colombia leading British scientist Sir Robert Watson said We must act to halt and reverse the unsustainable use of nature or risk the future we want and have. Fortunately the evidence also shows that we know how to protect and partially restore our vital natural assets. Academic volunteers looked through some 10000 scientific publications for what is said to be the most extensive biodiversity survey since 2005. Among the list of the biggest threats to food and water security were pollution climate change and deforestation. Scientists say governments businesses and individuals must consider the impact on biodiversity when taking decisions on farming fishing forestry mining or infrastructure development.	True	True	False	False	False
Over 250000 Americans and 500 organizations submitted comments rejecting the US Department of Agricultures USDA proposal to approve genetically engineered eucalyptus trees for planting. If approved the trees would be planted in seven southern states. Public comments on the USDAs draft environmental impact statement dEIS closed on Wednesday. The agency will now evaluate the comments for a final review on whether to approve the GE trees. Activists from the South Pacific Islands Southern Asia and North and South America weighed in rejecting all genetically engineered trees including field trials. Critics of the dEIS said the USDA downplayed the risks posed by the GE trees. The agency predicts GE eucalyptus plantations would cover over 1 million across seven states from coastal South Carolina to eastern Texas. The GE eucalyptus trees developed by biotech companies such as FuturaGene and ArborGen are designed to tolerate freezing temperatures and to help feed demand for pulp and paper production biomass pellets for electricity and fuel for cars. Anne Petermann executive director at the Global Justice Ecology Project said the tradition has been for the government to rubberstamp genetically engineered organisms but this would be the first time they are approving a genetically engineered forest tree. She said ArborGen asked for approval to legalize the trees six years ago. They USDA are really taking their time with it becuase they know there is overwhelming public opposition to the plan Petermann told RT. Petermann said there is a lack of independent research on the long term or even short term consequences of putting genetically engineered trees out into the environment and that the risks could be significant. We are talking about forest ecosystems that have evolved over millions of years Petermann said. Planting eucalyptus trees with mutations in their genomes how are these organisms going to interact with the forest? How are they going to interact with soil micro organisms? Those studies have not been done and that is one of the major points in the comments. Petermann said if the studies were to be done they would have to be carried out over the full life of the tree between 50 to 100 years. As that is not likely to happen she said there is no way to know the full scope of the risks. Eucalyptus trees are the number one industrial tree plantation used in Latin America Africa and Asia traditionally in tropical areas where commerce appreciates their fast growth and versatility. The forest products industry is worth 400 billion a year. This technology is worth billions of dollars a year. If you can increase yields by 40 percent you can greatly reduce prices. Eucalyptus today are harvested at seven years in Brazil we are looking to produce the same sized trees in five and a half years Stanley Hirsch chief executive of the Israeli biotech company FuturaGene told the Guardian in 2012 over its plans to plant GM eucalyptus in Brazil. Documented as an invasive species around the world the trees have escaped the limits of their plantations in South Africa and shown up in native grasslands and in Chile where they are showing up in the forests. In the US the trees only grow in Southern Florida and California hence the need for a genetically engineered variety to withstand temperature variations in other states. Petermann said another red flag is wildfires. She points to the massive wildlife that hit Portugal last month that left 60 people dead and one that happened in Chile in January. Both were fed by eucalyptus plantations. Eucalyptus is extremely flammable said Petermann. Combine that with dry conditions which these trees exacerbate because they drink so much you end with these incredible firestorms. The US southeast is already experiencing repeated droughts it is already experiencing heatwaves it is the last place to plant a eucalyptus plantation. Among other commentators was former NASA scientist Kate Cato who lives in the US south and has mapped parts of Mars. She said it was clear that the planet once had rivers and great amounts of water and possibly an atmosphere similar to ours but a global catastrophe had happened. She said the effects of invasive species such as kudzu lionfish and Australian pines have already caused chaos in the southern states where they lack predators and displace native plants and animals and already cost the states millions of dollars in losses and eradication.	False	False	False	True	False
CNN will host a seven hour marathon of interviews with 10 presidential candidates about climate change on Wednesday beginning at 5 pm Eastern as part of its climate crisis town hall. A live stream of the town hall will air on CNN.com. You can also stream it via CNN apps on iOS Android Apple TV Roku Amazon Fire Chromecast and Android TV. The forum will also be broadcast on SiriusXM Channels 116 454 795 and the Westwood One Radio Network. Here is the format The audience will be composed of selected Democrats independents and stakeholders. No public tickets will be issued. That a major television network would devote so much time to a single issue is a sign of how important climate change has become for Democrats and how successful activists have been in elevating the issue. Climate change has rocketed up the list of concerns for primary voters with some polls showing climate change as the number one issue and other indicating that strong majorities want robust climate action from the White House. Activists groups like the Sunrise Movement have refused to let the Democratic National Committee ignore the issue holding sit ins outside their headquarters to demand a climate debate. The DNC responded that it will not hold a climate change debate for 2020 presidential contenders nor will it allow candidates to attend a third party debate. But CNN and MSNBC have found a loophole in the rules that still permits candidates to attend televised forums and town halls. CNN did not respond to requests for comment. MSNBCs climate forum is scheduled for September 19 and 20. In the past few months candidates have been steadily releasing their own visions for how to limit warming this century. Washington Gov. Jay Inslee who made climate change the centerpiece of his presidential campaign and put out the most comprehensive policy agenda is now out of the race giving other candidates some room to distinguish themselves on the issue. Several candidates including Booker Buttigieg and Harris are issuing new climate plans this week. For the most part the Democratic presidential contenders agree that climate change demands a serious policy response and that the US needs to become carbon neutral by roughly the middle of the century. And indeed many have voiced support for the Green New Deal and most have pledged to refuse donations from the fossil fuel industry. The main differences among the candidates lie in how much political capital they intend to expend on fighting climate change and what they would do with executive authority. The town hall will give them an opportunity to present their plans in greater detail and with more nuance. In the prior two rounds of presidential debates spanning more than eight hours climate change received just 35 minutes of airtime. Much of the discussion was shallow and uninformative partly a consequence of having to split attention across 20 candidates. A forum format with one on one discussions with the candidates could better get at these distinctions forcing candidates to make the affirmative case for their own policies rather than sniping at those from other candidates. On the other hand a candidate in the hot seat wont receive any direct challenges from their opponents. It would behoove the networks to focus their discussion on getting at these subtle differences among the candidates like what executive orders they would sign how high climate change ranks as a priority and what measures would a candidate pursue to ensure a just transition to clean energy. Voxs David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points. CNNs climate change forum has immense potential to illuminate real differences among the candidates and inform the public about the often weedy details of climate policy. However it remains to be seen if there is an audience with a seven hour attention span for a single issue. And theres always the risk that it could devolve into rote recitals of platitudes. Heres to hoping we learn something new.	False	True	False	True	True
A fifth generation coal miner from Virginia has spoken out against President Donald Trump's rhetoric surrounding the coal mining industry saying the President is making false promises that are only going to line the pockets of coal executives. In a New York Times op ed video published Tuesday Nick Mullins a ninth generation Appalachian from Virginia said that if Trump wants to help the Appalachian mining communities that support him lowering emission standards is not the way to do it. At this year's State of the Union address Trump talked about ending the war on beautiful clean coal. Mullins says coal cannot be clean and that miners know firsthand. We have to realize that the environmental impacts of the industry aren't a partisan issue he said. They're a matter of life or death. On Tuesday the newly proposed Affordable Clean Energy Rule was announced which would allow states to set their own emission standards for coal fueled power plants. Throughout his campaign and presidency Trump has lauded his plan to replace the Obama administration's climate change policies with rules and regulations that would be more friendly toward the coal industry. The Obama administration's Clean Power Plan made greenhouse gas emissions federally regulated for the first time.	True	False	False	True	True
The executive order titled Promoting Domestic Manufacturing and Job Creation Policies and Procedures Relating to Implementation of Air Quality Standards reverses an Obama era decision. The 2015 decision allowed the EPA to intervene in states that fail to meet National Ambient Air Quality Standards forcing them to adopt federal regulatory plans to reduce ozone emissions that generally come from power plants refineries and cement factories. It opens the door to drastic changes in how science is used to set clean air rules disqualifying huge amounts of peer reviewed public health research in favor of industry backed studies in a move that builds on steps EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has already taken. The order requires the EPA to speed up reviews of state plans to reduce air pollution setting a strict 18 month deadline and complete reviews of all pre construction permits for industry within a year. Construction permitting is primarily a state level issuethe language in the order critics say appears to be a dog whistle to polluters suggesting the EPA would pull back on any oversight. The purpose is that if states make determinations that are somewhat less than the rigor of what might be expected EPA wont second guess it Stan Meiburg a former acting deputy EPA administrator who spent 39 years at the agency told HuffPost by phone. Its a go ahead for industry that if they take their best shot at states the EPA wont be getting in the way. The orderinstructs the EPA to consider what countries that dont border the United States are doing to reduce pollution allowing the agency to compare U.S. regulations to those in developing nations like China and India. It also directs Pruitt to allow states to trade pollution permits a move environmentalists warn could make offsets nearly impossible to track and police. In what could be the most controversial part the order requires the EPAs science advisers to consider the downside of cleaner air rulessomething for which industry groups have clamored for years. They argue the policies could raise electricity costs and make things like air conditioning more expensive. That directive is likely to prompt watchdog groups to sue. The Supreme Court ruled unanimously in 2001 in a decision written by late Justice Antonin Scalia that the EPA cannot consider the costs of implementation when setting air quality standards. It marks the latest assault on clean air rules putting poor people and communities of color particularly at risk. People living below the poverty line were exposed to 1.35 times more particulate matter than those living above it according to a landmark EPA study released in February. People of color breathe in 1.2 times more particulate matter pollution and black people in particular are on average exposed to 1.54 times more particulate matter pollution than the general pollution. The National Association of the Advancement of Colored People released a report in February that found black people are exposed to air that is 38 percent more polluted than white people on average and they are 75 percent more likely to live in communities abutting industrial sites. People who are most affected by air pollution are the most vulnerable and these policy changes would mean even less protection for those people Janet McCabewho served as the assistant administrator for the EPAs Office of Air and Radiation until 2017 told HuffPost by phone. It could mean yet more pollution in their neighborhoods. The new order could put the administration at loggerheads with California regulators again. But the quiet rollout of the memorandum avoided swift criticisms. The California Air Resources Board told HuffPost the agency had not yet reviewed the ordered by Thursday afternoon. This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters its nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science gut our clean air protections and put polluter profits ahead of our health Sara Jordan a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters said in a statement.	True	False	False	True	True
Italian prime minister Paolo Gentiloni visited Assisi Wednesday to commemorate the feast of Italys patron St. Francis in conjunction with the towns announcement it was divesting itself of all oil coal and gas holdings in a gesture aimed against commonly cited causes of manmade global warming. The Franciscan monasterial complex in Assisi the spiritual home of the Franciscan friars throughout the world is among the 40 Catholic institutions and organizations jointly announcing their adherence to an international ecological campaign calling for the disinvestment from all fossil fuels in the hopes of combatting climate change. The Mayor of Assisi Stefania Proietti indicated the citys extensive olive groves as an effective tool for mitigating climate change because of the trees ability to absorb the large quantities of carbon dioxide it needs in order to grow and produce olives. In a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity it is necessary to recall the values of custody of creation the preferential option for the poor and the peace that is built in everyday life including with attention to the care of the common home she said. The Assisi diocese joined the dioceses of Caserta and Gubbio in this symbolic gesture along with dozens of other Catholic organizations throughout the world such as the Archdiocese of Cape Town the Belgian bishops conference the German Bank for Church and Caritas. In this new wave of ethical investing the total figure of divestiture for the church groups involved has not been disclosed but is reportedly four times higher than a previous church record. Coordinating these efforts is the World Catholic Climate Change Movement which in January sponsored the first world conference on fossil fuel divestment from a Catholic perspective at Romes Pontifical Lateran University. The moral clarity of these 40 institutions is a source of deep joy said Toms Insua the director of the Movement. Their leadership is launching a path that the World Bank and its financial organs should follow. Considering that the World Bank is meeting these days in Washington we hope its leaders will notice that the fossil free movement has grown and is getting stronger. Christiana Figueres the former UN climate tsar who helped negotiate the Paris climate accord lauded the move as a further sign we are on the way to achieving our collective mission. I hope we will see more leaders like these 40 Catholic institutions commit because while this decision makes smart financial sense acting collectively to deliver a better future for everybody is also our moral imperative she said. Earlier this year Pope Francis momentarily departed from his denunciation of fossil fuels offering a large donation of tons of cost effective fuel briquettes to heat the homes of internally displaced persons IDPs in Ukraine. As part of the Pope for Ukraine initiative Francisdonatedmore than 2.5 tons of fuel per displaced family cared for by the parish of the Holy Theotokos in the village of Vilcha. The combustible fuel briquettes reportedly were sufficient to heat the homes and apartments of more than a hundred resettled families throughout the heating season and into the coming winter as well. The politically incorrect gift highlighted thecost effectivenessand ready availability of fossil fuels which were responsible for powering the industrial revolution throughout the developed world. Pope Francis has been a vocal advocate of clean renewable energy and the reduction of carbon emissions. His groundbreaking 2015 encyclicalletterLaudato Sion care for the environment was the first teaching letter of its sort in the history of the Catholic Church. In that text Francis wrote of an urgent need to take steps leading to the substitution of fossil fuels with alternative energy sources.	False	False	False	False	False
Teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg has already caused a sensation on her trip to North America tearing into world leaders yesterday in an emotional speech at the United Nations and giving a death stare to Donald Trump. What is not yet clear is how the 16 year old will get back to Sweden because she refuses to travel on fuel guzzling planes and the 60ft racing boat she travelled on is already back in Europe. Two crew members have flown to the U.S. to sail the Malizia II back across the Atlantic and it is not yet clear exactly when Thunberg will be going home. When she set off from Britain last month she admitted 'I don't know yet how I will get home'. Non stop flights from London to New York City take between eight to ten hours for a 3470 mile journey. It equates to about 183910 pounds of emissions per flight between the two cities and Thunberg refuses to add to the environmental cost. She has also persuaded her parents to stop flying hampering her mother's career as an international opera singer. 'My generation wont be able to fly other than for emergencies in a foreseeable future if we are to be the least bit serious' about limiting global warming she has previously said. Thunberg also refuses to travel aboard a cruise ship as they are also notoriously big polluters. The Malizia II is now back in France after sailing back from New York without Thunberg. Unless the Malizia II returns to North America she will have to find a different mode of transport back across the Atlantic when she eventually leaves. In the meantime she plans to promote her climate agenda across North America. This week she will travel from New York to Montreal to join a school climate strike in Canada on what is expected to be a day of global protests. She also hopes to visit Mexico and is due in Chile for a climate summit in December travelling across the Americasby bus and train. The 16 year old is taking a year out of school to lobby for climate action after starting the school strike movement in Sweden last August. She skipped school for the first three weeks after term began and then took Fridays off to spend the day outside Sweden's parliament with a sign labelled 'School strike for climate'. Her protests have inspired wealthy donors to contribute to a Climate Emergency Fund to support the protests and the simultaneous Extinction Rebellion movement. Its donors include heiress Aileen Getty American philanthropist Trevor Neilson and filmmaker Rory Kennedy a member of the political Kennedy clan. The Swedish teenager named this week's UN Climate Action Summit and the Chile conference in December as her main reasons for crossing the Atlantic. She said last year she had beeninvited to speak around the world but refused to make the necessary flights. But in June she said 'it looks like a large part of our future will probably be decided in New York and Santiago' and agreed to travel to North America on the yacht. Pierre Casiraghi the grandson of Monaco's late Prince Rainier III and American actress Grace Kelly and fellow yachtsman Boris Herrmann offered her passage on the Malizia II. She arrived last month after a two week journey aboard the racing yacht. Thunberg documented parts of her journey on Twitter where she included videos of choppy weather conditions photos of herself and the crew and commentaries about climate change. Last week she joined a school strike in New York City where school officials allowed pupils the day off to attend the protest. In her impassioned address yesterday she said 'This is all wrong. I shouldn't be up here.I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean. 'Yet you have come to us young people for hope. How dare you?'You have stolen my dreams my childhood with your empty words. 'Yet I'm one of the lucky ones. People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth. How dare you?' 'The eyes of future generations are on you and if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you. We will not let you get away with this.' Trump sent a mocking tweet saying 'She seems like a very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future. So nice to see!' Fewer than half the 136 heads of government or state in New York this week to attend the UN General Assembly attended on Monday. Ahead of the conference the United Nations issued a release saying 66 countries vowed to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 along with 10 regions 102 cities and scores of businesses.	True	True	False	True	False
Trump regularly brags about making Americas air cleaner but evidence from his own Environmental Protection Agency EPA shows the opposite is happening The air we breathe is getting dirtier. New EPA data shows that since 2016 a decades long trend of improving air quality has started to backslide. In both 2017 and 2018 the number of unhealthy air days in metropolitan areas increased 15 compared to the last four years of President Obamas administration the Associated Press reported Tuesday. That's the exact opposite of what Trump regularly claims. During his embarrassing trip to Ireland in early June Trump said We have the cleanest air in the world in the United States and its gotten better since Im president. At his big rally Tuesday in Orlando Trump made a similar false claim We have among the cleanest and sharpest crystal clean youve heard me say it I want it crystal clean air and water anywhere on Earth. Air pollution leads to the premature death of 100000 Americans every year the AP reports and Trumps own EPA shows not only worse air pollution but a significant increase in the two worst categories very unhealthy and hazardous conditions. During the Trump administration U.S. cities saw air pollution in one of these two categories nearly 140 times which is almost three times as often as the average from 2013 to 2016. In fact the AP notes that the four years from 2013 and 2016 Obama's second term in office were a clean air heyday for America that boasted the fewest unhealthy air days since 1980. That heyday appears to be over for now. To make matters worse on Wednesday the EPA finalized what will be its biggest climate policy rollback according to the Washington Post. The new rule will allow coal plants to spew more pollution into the air than a previous rule put in place by President Obama. The new rule is really a dereliction of duty moral ethical but also legal Andres Restrepo a lawyer with the Sierra Club's Environmental Law Program told the Post. Scientists are unclear as to the exact reasons air pollution has gotten worse under Trump but they say its very clear that his policies will make the situation worse. There is zero reason to expect any other outcome than worsening air quality if Trump continues to roll back regulations Neil Donahue an engineering professor at Carnegie Mellon University told the AP. While Trump has been in office the air has gotten dirtier. His lies dont make it cleaner and his policies are on track to make it worse. Published with permission of The American Independent.	True	False	False	True	True
Climate change garners most of the headlines but the Trump administration is pushing a much larger and broader pro pollution agenda whose latest manifestation is a push at the EPA to overturn a long established scientific consensus that fine particulate pollution colloquially soot kills people. This is critically important for two main reasons. One is that for decades the EPA has been regulating various sources of particulate emissions and the science around how harmful they are plays a role in driving how strict those regulations become. The other is that particulate emissions play a key role in the bureaucratic politics of climate change. Because carbon dioxide emissions are global and the consequences of climate change are also global it is generally hard to demonstrate that cutting a given source of greenhouse gas emissions will have large benefits to Americans. But most regulations that reduce carbon emissions also reduce much more localized soot and taking into account the fact that soot has a marked tendency to kill people who live nearby the emissions sources is important to making the cost benefit analysis math work. Tony Cox an industry consultant Trump tapped to lead the EPAs Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee argues that the EPAs agencys current standards for evaluating this question does not feature enough causal rigor. He wants to abandon the current weight of the evidence standards that allows for a wide range of evidence to be considered with credibility weighted according to the quality of study design in favor of a very narrow class of studies that employ manipulative causation methods. But as Francesca Dominici a biostatistician at Harvards T.H. Chan School of Public Health writes with researcher Gretchen Goldman in a new Science essay on the subject this loads the dice against demonstrating harms because randomized control trials are not possible or ethical when studying environmental hazards. In other words you cant get a group of volunteers together and then randomly assign half of them to have the air they breathe be deliberately poisoned just to see how bad the poison is. You have to rely on ways of exploiting random variation through methods like observational data time series and quasi experiments. Its true of course that you dont want to do a completely naive associational study and then leap to big policy conclusions from it. But public health researchers are aware of the limits of the data available and use matching statistical controls and other standard techniques to try to get a clearer picture of whats going on. Barring all that evidence would as Dominic writes place a nearly unattainable burden of proof on the scientific community and totally undermine the EPAs legal mandate to protect vulnerable people. Both the public health research and the EPA debate are largely focused on the question of soots ability to kill people through e.g. asthma but theres a big emerging set of empirical economics studies suggesting that fine particulates have a wider range of adverse cognitive impacts and are significantly underrated. In other words the consequences of rolling back the war on soot could be substantially worse than the mortality impacts alone imply. Economists like public health researchers are limited by their inability to deliberately poison people in order to study the impact of the poisoning. Consequently none of the studies Ive read on particulate pollution and cognitive impairment quite reaches gold standard levels of scientific evidence. But there are instead lots of quasi experiments and statistical matching studies and they all find that air pollution is worse than we thought. In addition to killing small numbers of people air pollution harms large numbers of people in small but meaningful ways This is an emerging field of study and it would obviously benefit from some further inquiry. That said it appears to be the case that fine particulate pollution induces cognitive impairments in school children white collar workers blue collar workers and the elderly in other words all people at all stages of life. Each of these impacts independently suggests that we are currently allowing too much air pollution and they also cry out for more research that attempts to assess the long term cumulative impact of pollutants that appear to induce cognitive problems throughout the life cycle. The question of exactly how much we are under regulating particulates seems somewhat open to me but the sign of the error is very clear.	True	False	False	False	True
wikimedia commons Its now inevitable that the contiguous United States will lose all of its glaciers within a matter of decades according to scientists who have revealed the precipitous shrinkage of dozens of glaciers in Montana. Warming temperatures have rapidly reduced the size of 39 named glaciers in Montana since 1966 according to comparisons released by the US Geological Survey USGS and Portland State University. Some have lost as much as 85 of their expanse over the past 50 years with Glacier national park site of 37 of the surveyed glaciers set to lose all of its eponymous ice formations within the next few decades. Of the 150 glaciers that existed in the park in the late 19th century only 26 remain. The disappearance of glaciers in Montana is part of a broader loss that will see all glaciers defined as moving bodies of snow and ice larger than 25 acres largely vanish from the lower 48 states of America by the mid point of the century according to Dr Daniel Farge lead USGS scientist. Its inevitable that we will lose them all over the next few decades Farge said. The Colorado glaciers started melting before Montanas and while there are larger glaciers in the Pacific north west that will hold on longer the number vanishing will steadily grow until none are left. Andrew Fountain a geologist at Portland State added While the shrinkage in Montana is more severe than some other places in the US it is in line with trends that have been happening on a global scale. Rising temperatures Montana is warming nearly twice as quickly as the global average and changes in precipitation patterns are eroding away glaciers in the state and elsewhere along the Rocky mountains. Last year scientists in Colorado found that the Arikaree glacier which is likely more than 1000 years old has been thinning by around a metre 3.2ft a year over the past decade and will vanish within 25 years. 	True	False	False	True	False
There is a wave of energy related ballot initiatives for voters to weigh in on this election year. Voters from Washington to Florida will be able to partake in important energy policy decisions for their states. Will Washington become the first state to tax carbon dioxide emissions? Will California undo a gas tax increase passed just seven months ago? The Daily Caller News Foundation lays out everything one needs to know about the six most important energy battles this election. RELATED Severe Storms Brewing For Election Day Threaten To Swing Tight Races Washington voters will decide whether or not to tax carbon dioxide emissions a policy championed by Democratic Gov. Jay Inslee and many Democrats and environmentalists who want to fight man made global warming. The ballot measure called Initiative 1631 would tax carbon dioxide emissions from industrial sources at 15 per ton in 2020 which would increase every year to reduce emissions. Supporters say the measure could raise more than 1 billion in revenue. Opponents however point out a carbon tax would raise the price of virtually every good while having no impact on future global warming. The tax would cost households and extra 175 per year in 2020 according to some estimates. The battle of Initiative 1631 has become the most expensive in state history so far drawing 45 million from both sides of the policy. Carbon tax opponents led by the oil and gas industry pumped 30 million into opposing the ballot measure and proponents have spent 15 million. An Octoberpoll found 50 percent of Washington voters favored the carbon tax while 36 percent opposed it. Colorado voters could end up banning hydraulic fracturing in most of the state. Polls show strong support for Proposition 112. The ballot measure if enacted would prohibit oil and gas drilling within 2500 feet of any building or vulnerable area including waterways and playgrounds. Thats more than double the current state buffer for oil and gas operations. A September poll put support for Proposition 112 at 60 percent but many prominent Democrats have come out against the measure. Democratic opponents include former Interior Secretary Ken Salazar and former Gov. Bill Ritter. Supporters say the ballot measure would protect public health but opponents say its a red herring meant as a de facto ban on fracking. The measure would ban oil and gas drilling on more than 80 percent of non federal lands in the state experts said. California voters seem poised to repeal a gas tax hike signed into law only seven months ago that added an extra 12 cents per gallon and up to a 175 license fee for vehicle registration. A University of California Berkeley poll from October found nearly 58 percent of voters opposed the gas tax increase. The political battle heated up that month when gas tax opponents threatened to recall Attorney General Xavier Becerra a Democrat for allegedly trying to mislead voters about the proposal. Gas tax repeal proponents are also backing an initiative to halt spending on Californias high speed rail project and use any unspent funds to improve roads. Tom Steyer Is Behind Ballot Measures In Arizona and Nevada Liberal billionaire Tom Steyers campaign group NextGen Climate Action is backing ballot measures in Arizona and Nevada that would require both states to get 50 percent of their electricity from renewables like wind and solar. Steyer pumped more than 20 million into the campaign but opponents accused Steyers group of using forged and fake signaturesto get the green energy mandate on Arizonas ballot. Steyers group has spent more than 10 million in support of Nevadas green ballot measure. Pinnacle West the parent company of Arizonas largest utility spent more than 30 million opposing the green energy mandate according to Ballotpedia. Under current laws Arizona is required to get 15 percent of its electricity from renewables and Nevada utilities are required to get 25 percent of their power from green sources. Florida To Decide On Offshore Drilling And Vaping? Floridas Amendment 9 ballot measure if enacted would ban offshore oil and gas drilling in state waters and ban e cigarettes from being used in enclosed workplaces. The measure is backed by Democratic and environmental groups opposed to offshore drilling and apparently vaping indoors. Its opposed by Republicans the oil and gas industry and the Consumer Advocates for Smoke Free Alternatives Association a group that advocates for e cigarettes. Opponents have attacked the ballot measure for its odd pairing of issues smoking and offshore drilling. Many opponents of offshore drilling ended up opposing the measure because of its prohibition on vaping indoors. While our editorial board opposes offshore drilling in state waters we also are philosophically opposed to the Constitution Revision Commissions bundling of these unrelated issues into a single amendment the editorial board of Treasure Coast Newspapers wrote in October.	False	False	False	True	True
In his first year as head of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt has made a huge mark shrinking his agency and repealing as many Obama era environmental regulations as possible. And as I pointed out last month in this feature story hes also overseen a drastic slowdown in the day to day work of the agency. Key offices remain vacant and the implementation of new environmental rules has stalled effectively throttling the agency. But one of EPAs most important jobs is to enforce civil penalties for companies that breach limits for hazardous chemicals like sulfur dioxide and hydrochloric acid. And one new measure of Pruitts foot dragging thats just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately. According to a new report from the Environmental Integrity Project a watchdog group that advocates for enforcement of environmental laws the amount of fines collected by Trumps EPA has plummeted compared to the agency under the past three presidents in their first year in office. Check out this chart The fines come from consent decrees a type of legal settlement where a party has to take a specific action but does not have to admit fault or liability. The consent decrees here involve violations of federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act. This tally doesnt include penalties from EPAs Superfund program criminal cases or the administrative actions that EPA takes to resolve smaller violations. The number of civil cases filed by the EPA to collect these fines in the first place has also declined. In President Clintons first year there were 73 under Bush 112 under Obama 71. In 2017 there were just 48 cases. What this means is that the EPA is not going after polluters like it used to. Less enforcement doesnt mean there arent a whole lot of violations that are out there said Eric Schaeffer executive director of the Environmental Integrity Project who led the civil enforcement office at the EPA under Presidents Clinton and Bush in a call with reporters. He noted that many of these civil cases take months to complete so some of the cases completed under Trump started under Obama. In a consent decree reached with Exxon Mobil last October the EPA boasted that the company would spend 300 million to install pollution controls but Schaeffer noted that this total includes measures installed as far back as 2013. And its likely enforcement will decline further for ongoing environmental investigations. Many of those cases will drop out of sight if Congress agrees to cut the agencys enforcement budget by 17 percent as President Trump has proposed according to the report. Enforcement matters especially to the people who live and work next to plants that continue to release more pollution than the law allows. The EPA did not respond to a request for comment.	True	True	False	True	True
This story was originally published byHuffPostand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration. The Evergreen States third and latest attempt to put a price on climate pollution failed Tuesday as voters rejected the historic ballot measure notching yet another win for the oil and gas industry. The measure known as Initiative 1631 aimed to put a levy of 15 per metric ton of carbon dioxide emissions starting in January 2020. The fee would have increased 2 annually until the state met its goals for cutting heat trapping gas pollution. The revenue was designed to be directed toward projects accelerating the states shift away from fossil fuels including expanding public transit energy efficiency retrofits for big buildings and new wind and solar powered plants. Washington already tried to pass more traditional carbon taxes. In November 2016 voters rejected a proposal for a tax of 25 per metric ton of carbon dioxide which aimed to cut the state sales tax 1 percent fund a tax credit of up to 1500 for low income households and cut the tax rate for manufacturers. In March a bill to enact a carbon tax escalating 1.80 per ton each year until hitting 30 in 2031 failed in the state Senate when it fell one or two votes short prompting the sponsor to pull the legislation. But Initiative 1631 took a different approach imposing the carbon price in the form of a fee. Under Washington State law a feeas opposed to a taxcannot be spent on government expenses such as public education or welfare meaning all the revenue the fee raises must fund climate related projects. That put it more in line with the Green New Deal a term progressive activists coined to describe a set of proposals for major government spending plans to mitigate the impacts of climate change. Scientists say such policies are necessary to make the kinds of emissions cuts required to avert the worst impacts of climate change. Just last month a sobering United Nations report found that world government must halve global emissions over the next 12 years to avoid cataclysmic warming and that technologies to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere are still likely necessary. Yet fears over rising gas prices proved more convincing to Evergreen State voters. The Western States Petroleum Association raised over 31 milliona record for Washington ballot initiativesfor its No campaign spending nearly 30 million of it by the start of this month. The campaign dispensed 10.8 million in the last two weeks of October alone. The loss came as Coloradans voted down Proposition 112 a measure that would have put about 85 percent of non federal land in the Centennial State off limits to oil and gas drilling.	True	True	False	True	True
Donald Trump has singlehandedly been working to set back U.S. climate policy 50 years. Heoutraged the world by exiting the Paris climate agreement. He fired scientists from government advisory positions. He signed a bill to let coal mines dump waste into streams. He is trying to undo the Clean Power Plan fuel economy standards for carsoffshore drilling restrictions and solar tax credits. But at the state level politicians are fighting back and nowhere more so than in California. On Monday the California state legislature passed a sweeping deal to extend the states current cap and trade program until 2030. The law requires businesses to buy credits based on their volume of greenhouse pollution. The passage of this bill is a rare bipartisan victory. Democrats control both chambers of the California legislature but the bill required a supermajority. Republicans cast the deciding votes amid the endorsement of prominent California GOP politicians like former Gov. Pete Wilson. California has been at the forefront of the climate change fight ever since Trump was elected. Gov. Jerry Brown made news in December for telling Trump that if he scuttles climate research satellites California will launch its own damn satellites. More recently Brown helped found the United States Climate Alliance a group of state and local governments pledging to abide by the Paris climate agreement even after the federal government withdraws. So far 10 states including two with Republican governors have joined as well as several major cities. Even if Trump is willing to turn his back on our allies and our future to roll back the clock on environmental protection states like California are standing up and assuming the mantle of leadership.The fight for the environment is a fight for the secure future of human civilization and Trump cannot stop that fight.	True	False	False	False	False
President Donald Trump's eldest son Don Jr. has criticized Time magazine for naming Greta Person of the Year 2019 in a mocking tweet. The businessman denounced the choice as a 'marketing gimmick' and said the prize should have honored 'Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms' his father was also a finalist. Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.' The 16 year old Swedish face of climate activism made headlines after shouting 'How dare you?' at world leaders at the U.N. General Assembly earlier this year accusing them of failing the younger generation. An image of her stare at Donald Trump as he entered the UN quickly became a social media meme. Miss Thunberg was up against four other Time's finalists including anti government Hong Kong protesters U.S. house speaker Nancy Pelosi the anonymous whistleblower who revealed Trump's phone call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in July that may lead to his impeachment and in ironically also Donald Trump. The young activist attracted international attention after holding a sign that said 'skolstrejk fr klimatet' or 'School strike for the climate' in Swedish parliament last year. The activist has drawn increasingly large crowds with her appearances at protests and conferences over the past year and a half. Veteran campaigners and scientists have welcomed her activism including her combative speeches challenging world leaders to do more to stop global warming. Time editor in chief Edward Felsenthal told the Today show 'She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement.' He confirmed she is the magazine's youngest ever choice. Malala Yousafzai was runner up in 2012 losing out to Barack Obama aged 15. U.S. president last month signed legislation backing the Hong Kong protesters in their fight for democracy which could be the reason for his son's backing. The protests begun in March when an extradition bill now suspended called for those facing trials to be sent to mainland China which was seen as a threat to the region's autonomy. Thunberg has not responded to the criticism but retweeted Time magazine's cover featuring herself. Today President Donald Trump lashed out at 16 year old global warming activist Greta Thunberg on Thursday and told her to 'chill' as he called her Time magazine 'Person of the Year' award 'ridiculous.' 'Greta must work on her Anger Management problem then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend! Chill Greta Chill!' Trump tweeted The president was responding to Christian filmmaker Roma Downey who tweeted the Time cover with the word 'Congrats.' Minutes after his tweet Thunberg changed her Twitter profile biography to read 'A teenager working on her anger management problem. Currently chilling and watching a good old fashioned movie with a friend.' Thunberg was in Madrid on Wednesday where she addressed negotiators at the U.N.'s COP25 climate talks. There she accused political and business leaders of polishing their images rather than taking aggressive action in the fight against climate change at the UN climate talks. In a speech the teenager also criticized governments for avoiding taking action to cut greenhouse gas emissions and 'not behaving as if we are in an emergency'. Greta said 'The biggest danger is not inaction the real danger is when politicians and CEOs are making it look like real action is happening when in fact almost nothing is being done apart from clever accounting and creative PR.' She said the science showed that at the current rate of emissions the world is set to use up the whole 'carbon budget' the amount of pollution that can be put into the atmosphere and still keep global warming to 1.5C in eight years.	True	True	False	True	False
Air pollution is not just bad for health also makes people unhappy a new study has shown. Researchers at MIT and the University of Beijing discovered a direct link between the amount of particulates in the air and happiness. Research has previously shown that air pollution is damaging to health cognitive performance labor productivity and educational outcomes. But air pollution also has a broader impact on people's social lives and behavior according Siqi Zheng the Samuel Tak Lee Associate Professor in MIT's Department of Urban Studies Pollution also has an emotional cost said Dr Zheng. People are unhappy and that means they may make irrational decisions. Researchers used pollution data from 144 Chinese cities and monitored general happiness of urban dwellers by looking at the mood using 210 million messages from China's largest microblogging platform Sina Weibo. They found a significantly negative correlation between pollution and happiness levels with every increase in pollution above a healthy level bringing happiness down by 0.04 points out of 100. On Monday some parts of London recorded Air Quality Index AQI levels of 151 more than 100 points above healthy limits. It suggests that people were four points unhappier than they would have been without polluted levels. For China pollution can rise into the 700s which could be having a major impact on happiness. Women were also found to me more sensitive to higher pollution levels than men as were those on higher incomes. The research was published in the journal Nature Human Behaviour.	False	False	False	True	False
The New York Times published an unreleased draft of the report Monday. The 543 page report was written by scientists from 13 federal agencies including the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.It concludes that temperatures in the U.S. have risen sharply by 1.6 degrees Fahrenheit over the last 150 years and that it is extremely likely that most of the global mean temperature increase since 1951 was caused by human influence on climate. Evidence for a changing climate abounds from the top of the atmosphere to the depths of the oceans the report states. Thousands of studies conducted by tens of thousands of scientists around the world have documented changes in surface atmospheric and oceanic temperatures melting glaciers disappearing snow cover shrinking sea ice rising sea level and an increase in atmospheric water vapor. Many lines of evidence demonstrate that human activities especially emissions of greenhouse heat trapping gases are primarily responsible for recent observed climate changes. The report completed this year and part of the National Climate Assessment has already been approved by theNational Academy of Sciences according to the Times. Its release hinges on the Trump administrations approval and one scientist who worked on the report told the Times that he and others feared the president would withhold it. Also the frequency of extreme weather events including heavy rain and heat waves has increased and is very likely to continue to do so. And since 1880 global sea levels have risen 8 to 9 inches roughly 3 of those inches since 1990 with human activity playing a substantial role according to the report. In a post to Twitter Gavin Schmidt a climate scientist and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies said that nothing in the report is surprising for people working in the field but that it may be shocking to those that think climate change is just a future problem. The report delivers a strikingly different message than the one being pushed by Trump and his Cabinet members who continue to downplay the urgency of the threat as they work toward energy dominance. Since taking office Trump who famously called climate change bullshit and a Chinese hoax has moved quickly toderail Americas actions to combat climate change including rolling back President Barack ObamasClean Power Plan a policy limiting greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. Trump has pegged himself as a savior of Americas dying coal industry and has vowed to increase oil and gas production openingnow protected areasof the Arctic and Atlantic oceans to drilling. In June he announced plans topull the U.S. out of the historic Paris Agreement on climate change the international accord in which nearly 200 countries committed to slashing carbon emissions in an effort to prevent global temperatures fromincreasing 2 degrees Celsiusabove pre industrial levelsthe line scientists say the world must stay below to stave off the very worst effects of climate change. Meanwhile his Cabinet members have refused to say whether Trump believes climate change is real and continue to question how much the scientific community understands about the threat and the role humans play in observed changes. In MarchEnvironmental Protection AgencyheadScott Pruitttold CNBC No I would not agreethat carbon dioxide is a primary contributor to the global warming that we see. And in June Energy Secretary Rick Perry echoed Pruitts comments saying no when asked byCNBC whether he believes carbon dioxide is the primary control knob for the temperature of the Earth and for climate. Most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in Perry said.I mean the fact is this shouldnt be a debate about Is the climate changing? Is man having an effect on it? Yeah we are. The question should be you know just how much and what are the policy changes that we need to make to affect that? Also in June Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke said glaciers in Montanas Glacier National Park started melting right after the end of the Ice Age and that it has been a consistent melt. He also dismissed the notion that government scientists can predict with certainty how much warming will occur by 2100 under a business as usual scenario.	False	False	False	True	False
The Trump administration has halted a study looking at the health risks of mountaintop removal coal mining. In a letter written on Friday the Interior Department announced the shutdown of the study which was started in 2016 under former President Barack Obama while the department undergoes an agency wide budgetary review. Scientists estimate at least 500 Appalachian mountaintops have undergone mountaintop removal mining a form of surface mining that harvests coal deposits too thin to work from a coal mine. The study had been launched at the request of two West Virginia agencies the state's Department of Environmental Protection and Bureau for Public Health. Ordered by the Obama administration the 1million two year study looked to investigate mountaintop removal in West Virginia Kentucky Virginia and Tennessee. An emphasis was placed on studying the 'effects from surface coal mining operations on air surface water groundwater and drinking water quality and on ecologic communities and soil that could potentially lead to human health concerns.' This came after a 2010 study in Science magazine reported an increase in mortality rates as well as an increase in incidences of lung cancer and kidney disease near where mountaintop mining is common. Birth defects were also reported in a 2011 study published in Science Daily. Some suggest the move may be part of President Donald Trump's efforts to bring back coal. In February he scrapped the Stream Protection Rule a regulation to protect waterways from coal mining waste and promised to bring back coal mining jobs. Additionally his proposed 2018 budget would cut funding for the Office of Surface Mining which is responsible for protecting society and the environment from the adverse effects of surface coal mining operations. Critics have railed against the Interior Department for moves seen as halting scientific growth. Several science advisory boards were frozen earlier this year by Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke. And Interior Department climate scientist Joel Clement allegedthat he and dozens of other scientists had been arbitrarily reassigned. 'It's infuriating that Trump would halt this study on the health effects of mountaintop removal coal mining research that people in Appalachia have been demanding for years' Bill Price Senior Appalachia Organizing Representative for Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign said in a statement. 'Stopping this study is a ploy to stop science in its tracks and keep the public in the dark about health risks as a favor to the mining industry pure and simple' said Democratic Representative Ral Grijalva of Arizona ranking member of the House Committee on Natural Resources in a statement.	True	True	False	True	False
The trough is about 3.5 km about 2 miles below sea level but there is no ocean water there. Instead it is filled with ice flowing from the interior of the ice sheet towards the coast. The trough measures about 100 km in length and is 20 km wide according to the study. This new discovery was presented at the American Geophysical Union's Fall Meeting in San Francisco. Dr. Mathieu Morlighem an associate professor in the Department of Earth System Science at the University of California at Irvine is leading this project. The biggest challenge about the project is that Antarctica is HUGE! he said excitedly. It's bigger than the U.S. and Mexico combined. Morlighem and his team used a new technology called BedMachine to make this discovery. They developed a new generation ice sheet model but it was not behaving as expected. The artificial glacier growing in the desert After months of investigation we realized that it was not because we were missing important processes. It was because the bed topography under the ice was missing many important features such as troughs ridges valleys etc he said. And because of the size of the area they were trying to map the process was very time consuming. The team combined radar measurements with high precision surface motion data from satellites and snow accumulation from regional climate models to get a good estimate of the shape of the bed where it had not been measured. We applied this mapping technique to the entire ice sheet and we discovered this very deep valley hidden underneath the ice sheet Morlighem said. He said one of the challenges they faced during the project was gathering all the available data since there have been many radar surveys but done by different institutions in different countries. They also had some surprises on the way. The main ones are these ridges across the Transantarctic Mountains Denman glacier but also some other glaciers feeding the Ronne Ice Shelf that seem to be more vulnerable than we thought Morlighem said. Morlighem says climate change could impact this region. A massive waterfall formed on Greenland's ice sheet. Here's why it matters We now have to monitor this glacier carefully. If its grounding line where the ice starts to float starts to retreat in this deep canyon it could retreat rapidly due to a mechanism called Marine Ice Sheet Instability. he said. Glaciers that flow on beds that deepen inland are unstable and so the glacier will potentially have to retreat all the way until the bed rises again leading to significant sea level rise. It could be one of the most vulnerable sectors of East Antarctica which holds significantly more ice than west Antarctica. But there is good news as far as climate change goes. The study says that major glaciers flowing through the Transantarctic Mountains and across Victoria Land are found to be protected by broad stabilizing topographic ridges near their grounding lines that reflect the surrounding topographic relief. The glaciers flowing across the Transantarctic Mountains all have a pronounced ridge across their troughs Morlighem said. These ridges were unknown and make this sector of the ice sheet extremely resilient to increase in ocean induced melting. In other words he said If the Ross Ice Shelf destabilizes it should not lead to a collapse of East Antarctica.	False	False	False	True	False
WASHINGTON Reuters The Trump administration on Thursday proposed easing Obama era limits on oil and gas industry emissions of methane one of the main pollutants scientists link to climate change. The Environmental Protection Agency EPA said easing the 2016 regulation that targeted methane would save energy companies up to 123 million through 2025. The plan will undergo a period of public comment before being finalized and environmental groups pledged court action to try to block repeal of the limits. The proposal removes unnecessary and duplicative regulatory burdens from the oil and gas industry EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said in a release. The EPA said it will keep rules issued in 2012 that limit emissions known as volatile organic compounds that cause smog and also control some methane emissions. Some large energy companies including BP favor federal regulation of methane saying the regulatory certainty is preferable to a patchwork of varying rules by states and legal challenges by environmentalists. BP has said it is already taking steps to limit methane emissions. The move is the Trump administrations latest easing of rules designed to curb greenhouse gas emissions including many put forth by his predecessor President Barack Obama. President Donald Trump who insists he is an environmentalist has also relaxed rules on carbon emissions from vehicles and intends to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris agreement on climate change. Concern about climate has heightened in recent weeks amid fires in the Arctic and the Amazon rainforest and melting of ice in Greenland. Democrats seeking their partys nomination in the 2020 U.S. presidential election will participate in a series of town halls on climate next week. In 2016 Obamas EPA issued the first rule limiting methane emissions from new oil and gas fracking operations including transport equipment. Thursdays proposal would repeal those regulations. The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions a major factor in global warming. The gas has more than 80 times the heat trapping potential of carbon dioxide in the first 20 years after it escapes into the atmosphere scientists say. Susan Dio chairman and president of BP America supported federal regulation of methane in an opinion piece in the Houston Chronicle earlier this year calling it the the best way to help further reduce and ultimately eliminate methane emissions industrywide. Environmentalists vowed to sue the administration over the proposal. We simply cannot protect our children and grandchildren from climate catastrophe if EPA lets this industry off scot free said David Doniger a climate and clean energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council. If EPA moves forward with this reckless and sinister proposal we will see them in court.	True	True	True	False	False
Consumer goods giant Procter Gamble faces pressure from environmentalists to clean up its act. More than 150 groups are pushing the maker of Charmin toiler paper and Bounty paper towels to use recycled materials in its products. Currently neither of those products uses recycled paper and about one third of it is sourced from Canada's boreal forest a large swath of virgin forest that rings the Arctic Circle and acts as a critical check on climate change. It's just unacceptable that a company like PG is making toilet paper a product that is used for seconds and flushed from virgin pulp said Shelley Vinyard boreal corporate campaign manager for the Natural Resources Defense Council and one of several dozen protesters at PG's annual shareholders meeting in Cincinnati Ohio on Tuesday. The NRDC likens Canada's vast forests to the Amazon of North. Replacing just half of PG's virgin pulp usage with recycled content would dwarf the company's current climate commitments the NRDC said in a letter to the company that was co signed by 150 other activist groups. PG offers a simple reason for not using recycled wood pulp It doesn't make for good toilet paper. Have you tried recycled toilet paper yourself? a PG spokeswoman asked CBS MoneyWatch who also pointed to Charmin as a superior product. I promise you'll enjoy it much more she said. PG is one of the world's largest consumer products companies with annual revenue of 67 billion and a stock market value of 305 billion. Along with Charmin and Bounty its many brands include Crest toothpaste Gillette razors Head Shoulders shampoo Pampers diapers and Tide laundry detergent. Toilet paper made from recycled fibers doesn't have the same qualities causing people to use more tissue made directly from trees the spokeswoman added. She also noted that PG's experience making recycled tissue products shows that a significant amount of recycled fibers ends up as solid waste sludge going to landfill. Instead PG promises to source its paper from forests that are well managed which in the company's view is a more responsible course of action than using recycled products. About 40 of its product line today comes from forests certified by the Forest Stewardship Council a nonprofit conservation group according to the company and the FSC. Personally I buy recycled toilet paper because we can and it's good for the Earth said Andrew Musgrave director of Catholic Social Action at the Archdiocese of Cincinnati and one of the 150 signatories to the letter sent to PG. Musgrave said he learned about the issue of deforestation for toilet paper relatively recently through a member of the congregation and that it was a natural fit with church teachings on preserving the environment. We believe in the dignity of life and part of that is having a place to live he said. He added that Cincinnati based PG had a history of supporting work and social justice in the community and he believed it was possible to shift to a recycled paper product without reducing quality. Frankly there are a lot of different companies that have moved in the direction of using recycled paper and I have a hard time imagining that they would have done it if it were not economically sustainable Musgrave said. Making paper sustainably doesn't necessarily mean using 100 recycled content said Stephen Donofrio director of the Ecosystem Marketplace initiative at the nonprofit Forest Trends. It could potentially be a mix. It could be single source certified and recycled. Wood has a heavy presence in most U.S. bathrooms Americans use more tissue paper than any other nation except China which has more than four times its population. That comes out to 36 billion rolls per year according to an analysis in Scientific American. The top three companies in what's called the tissue industry PG Kimberly Clark and Georgia Pacific rely almost exclusively on virgin pulp for their products. Last week PG promised to increase the portion of FSC certified fiber in its products to 75 from the current 40 within six years and to better protect caribou habitat in the Canadian forest where it gets much of its pulp. FSC certification limits forest clear cutting and ensures trees are re planted at the same rate they are harvested. However even harvesting from a sustainably managed forest has an environmental cost when compared with leaving trees uncut in the first place. The question we should be asking is whether or not those products are from virgin primary forests which are rich with biodiversity food systems and other ecosystems Donofrio said. It's that natural infrastructure that we're trying to avoid being lost. When companies make these pledges to be sustainably sourced or use recycled content that's the problem that they're solving.	False	False	False	True	False
Following the pile up of months and months of scandals EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt is finally out which means a significantly less notorious successor is now in. Introduced to the world via a tweet from President Donald Trump EPA Deputy Administrator Andrew Wheeler is set to take over the position in an acting capacity. Wheeler who was confirmed for the EPA deputy role in April appears to be cut from much of the same cloth as his former boss when it comes to rolling back environmental regulations. Here are three key facts to know about the person who will soon be overseeing the Environmental Protection Agency. Wheeler age 55 is a former lobbyist who represented Murray Energy a massive mining company as one of his chief clients. Murray Energy was among the companies Wheeler listed on his financial disclosures while he was being considered for the deputy administrator position. Others included Xcel Energy and General Mills. Murray Energy CEO Robert Murray is also a well known Trump adviser and supporter who Wheeler worked with closely. As a New York Times story lays out Murray was the architect of a so called environmental regulations wish list which detailed a list of policies aimed at reinvigorating the coal industry like curbing restrictions on greenhouse gases and slashing staff at the EPA. Wheeler and Murray were photographed at a March 2017 meeting with Energy Secretary Rick Perry where many of these policies were purportedly discussed. All this suggests that Wheeler wont be particularly aggressive toward the coal industry while in office. Andrew Wheelers coal credentials are without equal Sen. Edward Markey has said according to CBS News. He is without question a member of the coal industrys Hall of Fame. Wheeler was also a longtime staffer for Sen. Jim Inhofe serving as chief counsel for the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee while the lawmaker was chair according to Inside Climate News. All told Wheeler spent 14 years working with Inhofe on the Hill. Inhofe was among Pruitts biggest fans although the barrage of scandals ultimately began to dim his enthusiasm. Inhofe is known for denying that climate change is affected by human activity once throwing a snowball onto the Senate floor to counter arguments about climate change and prove that it was very very cold outside. His former staffers have become nicknamed by some as the Inhofe mafia. During Wheelers testimony in a congressional hearing last fall he dodged a question about climate change I believe that man has an impact on the climate but its not completely understood what that impact is he said according to Inside Climate News. As the New York Times points out however there is one crucial way that Wheeler differs from his departing boss. Pruitt was Oklahomas attorney general before being named to Trumps Cabinet and an outsider who recklessly took advantage of the privileges he obtained. Wheeler is seen as a seasoned political operative who knows how to carefully traverse the system. He was also at the EPA as a special assistant in the agencys Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics for four years before he worked for Inhofe. Pruitts goals as EPA administrator have centered on crafting or destroying policy in order to establish a friendlier regime for the fossil fuel industry. His efforts have included revising emissions standards for cars and trucks increasing his control over the implementation of the Clean Water Act and weakening standards on hazardous chemicals. It appears that Wheeler is on track to do more of the same and his insider instincts and methodical nature could mean even more effective rollbacks. A number of Pruitt policies are thought to be shoddily constructed and have faced significant legal challenges. As Trump said himself I have no doubt that Andy will continue on with our great and lasting EPA agenda.	False	False	False	True	True
The Environmental Protection Agencys 90 day suspension of new emission standards on oil and gas wells has been struck down by a US appeals court. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has long sought a repeal of the Obama era rules. A three judge panel of the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled 2 1 that the EPA would be allowed to reconsider a 2016 ruling that limited methane and smog forming pollutants emitted by oil and gas wells but could not delay the date it begins. Two judges concluded the administration record thus makes clear that industry groups had ample opportunity to comment on all four issues on which EPA granted reconsideration and indeed that in several instances the agency incorporated those comments directly into the final rule. READ MOREMining in Alaska may return as EPA scraps Obama era regulations Pruitt the new head of the EPA had been looking to extend a suspension on these activities for two years. There will be a separate administration public hearing on the same extension next Monday according to the Washington Post. The courts ruling is yet another reminder now in the context of environmental protection that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the presidents desire to order immediate change Richard Lazarus environmental law professor at Harvard Law School said in an email as reported by the Post. Lazarus continued the DC Circuits ruling today makes clear that neither the president nor his EPA administrator Scott Pruitt can by fiat unilaterally and instantaneously repeal or otherwise stay the effectiveness of the environmental protection rules put into place during the Obama administration. Former President Barack Obama had put in place a rule in 2016 that was connected to a regulatory strategy which sought to reduce methane emissions. At the time Pruitt was the Attorney General of Oklahoma and he and others sued the EPA to overturn the legislation. Pruitt has also begun to move on suspending or revoking many other measures which were implemented during the Obama years. This includes a two year delay on a certain regulations aimed at minimizing chemical accidents.	True	True	False	True	True
WASHINGTON Reuters The U.S. Supreme Court on Friday rejected for now a bid by the President Donald Trumps administration to block a trial in a lawsuit filed by young activists who have accused the U.S. government of ignoring the perils of climate change. The loss for the administration means it now faces a high profile examination of U.S. climate change policy during the trial that was due to begin on Oct. 29 in Eugene Oregon but has since been postponed by the judge. Chief Justice John Roberts on Oct. 19 had temporarily put the case on hold while the court as a whole decided how to proceed. The Supreme Courts three page order noted that the administration may still have grounds to take its arguments to the San Francisco based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Conservative Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch indicated they would have granted the administrations request. There was no indication how Trumps new Supreme Court appointee conservative Brett Kavanaugh voted on the issue. In the lawsuit 21 activists ages 11 to 22 said federal officials violated their rights to due process under the U.S. Constitution by failing to adequately address carbon pollution such as emissions from the burning of fossil fuels. The lawsuit was filed in 2015 against former President Barack Obama and government agencies in a federal court in Eugene Oregon. Both the Obama and Trump administrations have failed in efforts to have the lawsuit thrown out. The administration has said a courtroom is not the appropriate venue for a debate on climate change policy. This suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions Trump administration Solicitor General Noel Francisco said in court papers. Francisco noted that the plaintiffs are seeking to hold the U.S. government liable for the cumulative effects of carbon dioxide emissions from every source in the world over decades. Lawyers for the young activists led by Julia Olson of a Eugene based group called Our Childrens Trust that brought the lawsuit have said their clients have suffered irreparable harm from the effects of a changing climate. This is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights Olson said in court papers. On July 30 the high court rejected an earlier application by the Trump administration calling it premature. Eugene Oregon based federal Judge Ann Aiken has repeatedly allowed the case to move forward to trial over the objections of the government. The trial will proceed if neither the high court nor the 9th Circuit intervene. Aiken said in an Oct. 15 ruling that although the case raised questions about the role of the judiciary delving into a matter of policy those concerns were not enough to warrant a dismissal of the entire case.	True	False	False	True	False
The Environmental Protection Agency is poised to dismantle the federal clean water rule which protects waterways that provide drinking water for about a third of the US population. The EPA with the US army has proposed scrapping the rule in order to conduct a substantive re evaluation of which rivers streams wetlands and other bodies of water should be protected by the federal government. We are taking significant action to return power to the states and provide regulatory certainty to our nations farmers and businesses said Scott Pruitt administrator of the EPA. Pruitt said the EPA would swiftly redefine clean water regulations in a thoughtful transparent and collaborative way with other agencies and the public. Green groups however said the move pandered to fossil fuel and farming interests and was part of an agenda to weaken clean water protections. Once again the Trump administration has agreed to do the bidding of the worst polluters in our country and once again its putting the health of American families and communities at risk said Michael Brune executive director of Sierra Club. We will fight this and every other attempt by polluters and the Trump administration to destroy our water resources. The planned rollback follows an executive order penned by Donald Trump in February which called for a review of the regulation also known as the waters of the United States rule that was introduced by the Obama administration in 2015. The rule was meant to end years of confusion over which waterways were federally protected from pollution with the clean water rule simply designating navigable waters for safeguards. The Obama administration widened this definition to include the drinking water of about 117 million Americans. But while the rule was applauded by environmentalists for improving drinking water protections and aiding wildlife that relies on wetlands it was attacked by some farmers and golf course operators who claimed it hindered their ability to manage their land. Trump has called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation and a massive power grab. Signing his order the president said thousands of jobs were at risk because the EPA decided that navigable waters can mean nearly every puddle or every ditch on a farmers land or anyplace else that they decide. While puddles arent mentioned in the rule the EPA does have greater latitude to regulate under it. However there is no evidence that the regulation could result in the loss of thousands of jobs. The National Mining Association another opponent of the rule and representative of an industry relentlessly backed by Trump welcomed its impending demise. This sets in motion a welcome correction to a deeply problematic regulation that ignored the careful balance that Congress struck between federal and state water regulation and constitutional limits on federal authority said Hal Quinn NMA president and chief executive. The clean water rule reversal which will now go through a period of public comment ahead of a final decision is the latest in a string of regulations to be paused or scrapped by the Trump administration. In recent months the EPA has wound back rules curbing vehicle emissions toxic waste from power plants and methane leaks from oil and gas drilling operations.	True	True	False	False	True
Included in the Bureau of Land Managements September oil and gas lease sale is about 47 square miles 122 square kilometers of land north of Hovenweep National Monument a group of prehistoric villages overlooking a canyon with connections to several indigenous tribes throughout the U.S. Southwest. The parcels for lease are about five to 20 miles eight to 32 kilometers north of the monument. The sale comes amid an ongoing debate over drilling in states like Colorado Arizona and New Mexico where a coalition of tribes are calling for a halt on energy development near land that Native Americans consider sacred. The Trump administration has pushed to open vast expanses of public lands to oil and gas drilling speed up the construction of petroleum pipelines and ease federal environmental regulations dismissing calls from scientists in and out of government that immediate cuts in oil gas and coal emissions are required to stave off the worst of climate change. When this oil and gas leasing happens on or near sacred lands it risks de stabilizing the bedrock of the structures said Ahjani Yepa a member of Utah Din Bikyah a Navajo grass roots organization. Hovenweep is in all of our stories and to threaten the integrity of these structures jeopardizes everything weve carried forward as resilient people. Hovenweep was designated as an International Dark Sky Park in 2014 by the International Dark Sky Association recognized for its striking night skies and star gazing opportunities. Southeast Utah is known for its sweeping desert landscapes and expansive night skies. The state has 11 internationally recognized Dark Sky Parks the most of any state. Business owners in Bluff said the dark skies drive tourism to Hovenweep and feared industrial light pollution as well as the sounds and smells of energy development could drive visitors away. As of Monday afternoon Finch said there were no results to share and the sale would continue until at least Tuesday. The agency says in planning documents that companies should take steps to protect the environmental and cultural landscape of the area including limiting the use of artificial light at drilling sites and protecting useable groundwater aquifers from drilling. Companies must obtain permits and go through environmental reviews before they begin construction or drilling. Some leases go years before drilling or expire before any activity occurs. Still environmentalists and Native Americans invested in the land said such documents fail to address a larger trend of leasing increasingly more land on or near sensitive tribal landscapes. Parcels near Hovenweep were offered then deferred in a March BLM lease sale and new documents for an upcoming December lease sale show more land will be up for grabs. At least we have our little foot in the door but thats as far as weve gotten she said. They argue these lands are abandoned but theyre not we use them in our prayers we visit them. You wouldnt like it if I went into your home your land and started digging. The Bureau of Land Management would benefit from more community outreach and long term planning to lease parcels on sensitive landscapes said Erika Pollard an associate director with the National Parks Conservation Association. But the new energy dominated era she said were in has made public input on these processes harder.	False	False	False	False	False
Hes written poems lamenting legal abortion. He wants to make gay sex illegal and overturn marriage equality. The former judge says he places Gods law above the Constitution describes Islam as a false religion and has repeatedly defied federal orders to remove religious ornaments from his courtroom. He doesnt believe in evolution compares preschool to Nazi style indoctrinationand once said the Sept. 11 2001 terrorist attacks were divine punishment for the United States godlessness. His campaign site calls for energy independence and stakes out the vague position Coal mining and oil drilling should be encouraged subject only to reasonable regulations. In July he was the only candidate to refuse to answer questions about climate change for a Montgomery Advertiser story. Katie Frost his spokeswoman did not respond to multiple requests for comment. Not only do scientists disagree on global warming but there is little hard evidence that carbon emissions cause changes to the global climate. But it appears that Obama and his liberal administration are not really interested in what the Constitution or the scientific community have to say when it interferes with their radical agenda. In fact 97 percent of peer reviewed scientists have found that climate change is a serious threat and is at least exacerbated by humans. And there are serious flaws in the studies published by the 3 percent of scientists whose research suggests otherwise. A research review published last November found errors in the methodologies assumptions or analyses used by in those studies that when fixed put the findings in line with mainstream climate scientists. That consensus is so strong that in 2005 one of the standard bearers of the evangelical Christian politics in which Moore enshrouds himself planned to take a stance affirming the science. That year the National Association of Evangelicals proposed adopting a new platform called For the Health of a Nation. The position paper called for protecting Gods creation and embracing the governments help in doing so. But after receiving unanimous support by the board the 30 million member organization voted down the proposal kickstarting a campaign by fossil fuel interests to transform the doubt over global warming into what Splinter in a lengthy report published in August succinctly described as the word of God. White evangelical Christians more than 80 percent of whom supported Trump in last Novembers election are the least likely of any U.S. religious group to believe climate change is occurring according to 2015 data from the Pew Research Center. Just 28 percent of white evangelicals believe the planet is warming primarily due to human activity compared with 56 percent of black Protestants and 41 percent of white mainline Protestants who say the opposite. Roughly 37 percent of white evangelicals dont believe the climate is changing at all. This is a demographic Moore who attends the Gallant First Baptist Church near his home seems likely to tap. Alabama has the highest percentage of Baptists after Tennessee with 31 percent of residents in the state according to Pews 2014 Religious Landscape study. In December The Baptist Press the official media arm of the Southern Baptist Convention published an open letter of support for Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitts nomination amid fierce backlash over the former Oklahoma attorney generals rejection of the scientific consensus on climate change. On one side of that debate is a theological argument thats gained prominence in some corners of evangelical Christianity over the past decade. According to that interpretation God provided fossil fuels for humans to exploit and Christian environmentalists who believed in shifting to renewable energy were deceived by the false doctrine of the so called Green Dragon a demonic force that fooled people into putting the needs of the planet ahead of those of the poor. As a Christian I have a responsibility to try my best to be as wealthy as possible James Wanliss an associate professor of physics at Presbyterian College in South Carolina and the author ofThe Green Dragon Is Global Warming a Religion? told HuffPost. If youre grindingly poor youre just going to care about your next meal and too bad if trees get in your way. I see that some of the anthropogenic global warming rhetoric has been picked up by people who are really excited about trying to experiment with those types of systems in the West as a solution to those problemsWanliss said. As a Christian thats a problem to me because well aside from the philosophy behind those systems its just again empirically been disastrous. Roy Moore hes part of that culture Michael Hansen executive director of the Birmingham based environmental group Gasp and a former candidate in the Democratic primary for Senate told HuffPost. Something that I hear quite a bit from the right wing in Alabama is that God gave us fossil fuels for a reason. I wouldnt be surprised if Roy Moore said that at some point during his campaign. Alabama emerged in June from more than a year of the worst drought in memory affecting 98 percent of the state. The state braced twice in the past month for damage from the devastating series of hurricanes that struck neighboring states but it was spared the destruction after the winds weakened. Yet nearly 37 percent of Alabamians dont believe global warming is happening 7 percentage points below the national average according to survey data from the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication.	True	True	False	True	False
Joyce Farinato a pastor and artist who lost her Glen Ellen Calif. home in recent wildfires stands in the ruins Monday Oct. 23 2017 and shows a mask she found in the debris one of her few surviving possessions. Farinato said she wants to follow the environmental rules on cleaning burned sites but needs to know what they are. AP PhotoEllen Knickmeyer SANTA ROSA Calif. AP Government officials outlined plans Monday for what they say will be the largest fire clean up in California history aimed at removing hazardous substances and ash from 8400 homes and other structures burned in Northern California wildfires. With hundreds of anxious homeowners listening state emergency services official Eric Lamoureux set a target of early 2018 for completing the clean up and allowing owners to start rebuilding. California has declared a public health emergency in the fire area in part because of concern for hazardous substances ranging from freon in air conditioners to asbestos in older homes. The fires that began Oct. 8 have killed at least 42 people making them the deadliest series of wildfires in state history. The size and scope of this debris removal process will be one for the record books Sen. Mike McGuire a Democrat from the wine country town of Healdsburg told fire survivors at a Santa Rosa community forum. The meeting gave residents some of the first briefings on the clean up to come. Authorities have warned residents returning to the ruins of their homes to beware of possible hazardous residues in the ashes and required them to sign forms acknowledging the danger. Many survivors at Monday's forum and in fire zones where people are returning say they are confused about what authorities will allow them to do at their blackened properties before the massive waste removal. How do you get to get your mourning started if I can't stop and put hands on the scattering of possessions left asked resident Joyce Farinato who wore gardening gloves and a mask Monday as she walked through the chunks of concrete and bent metal that were all that was left of her home in rural Sonoma County. I'd like to know what's hazardous. What are we looking for? Farinato said. In Santa Rosa authorities with the Federal Emergency Management Administration and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers joined local and state officials answering other questions from homeowners. In two of the hardest hit areas Sonoma and Napa the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will be the agency that moves first removing any hazardous materials from the thousands of sites officials said Monday. State agencies would handle the same task in five other burned counties. The EPA effort would start this week said Lamoureux of California's Office of Emergency Services. Hundreds of teams led by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers are to move in next removing ash and rubble. In Sonoma County the scene of the most destruction and deaths county officials will draft environmental standards to be followed by any homeowners who opt to handle the clean up themselves at their own expense officials said. For property owners who let the government handle the clean up taxpayers will cover any of the costs of debris removal that insurance doesn't Lamoureux said. Authorities have yet to put a price tag on the process. Homeowners shouted questions on matters ranging from their liability in the clean up to the extent that contractors would be scraping bare building sites. Laney Wall who lost her home in the Sonoma County community of Fountaingrove asked why homeowners had to go through the expense trouble and wait of the clean up at all. What legally is the justification for declaring my home site a hazardous waste site requiring this onerous process? Wall asked. Officials pointed to the public health concerns ranging from safety of residents in the burned neighborhoods to concerns for hazardous waste entering waterways and the air. Officials promised more town meetings. Homeowners said that was a good idea. I just have more questions now Danny Thom another Fountaingrove resident said after the meeting.	False	True	True	False	False
President Donald Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement has been portrayed in some press coverage as a decision driven by either his personal idiosyncrasies or the policy agenda of White House chief strategist Steve Bannon. And while theres an element of truth to that it misses the big picture. The reality is that this isnt just a story about Trump its a story about the Republican Party and the conservative movement which has adopted a rock solid widespread consensus in opposition to any serious action aimed at the US reducing carbon emissions. This has become a bedrock belief of the modern GOP. While we cant know if any other Republican president elected in 2016 would have for sure withdrawn from the Paris agreement many institutional actors within the GOP and the conservative movement from members of Congress including the Senate majority leader to think tanks to activist groups to media outlets to conservative donors including many with fossil fuel wealth strongly support this move and have in fact been urging Trump to make it. Furthermore even leading Republicans who might have supported sticking to the Paris deal it is after all non binding would have likely supported an agenda of weakening environmental regulations and taken little if any action aimed at reducing carbon emissions. The party simply does not believe climate change is a serious problem. The talking points differ Some deny humans are causing the planet to warm at all and say the very idea is a liberal hoax their number includes President Trump. More nuanced pundits and politicians acknowledge that the science is real but argue that even if it is accurate the consequences might not be so bad or that action would simply be too costly. But beyond a few notable exceptions the upshot is generally the same no matter where someone sits in the GOP that addressing climate change shouldnt be anywhere near the top of the presidents agenda. This is the consensus that the vast majority of the Republican Party from donors to politicians to intellectuals to voters has arrived at. Which makes it the crucial context for Trumps move Thursday. Though Trumps withdrawal from the Paris agreement has been received by some as a shocking move it was hardly a fringe position in the Republican Party he was being outright pressured to do it. But whether the US stayed in the Paris agreement or not it was crystal clear both before and after Thursdays announcement that the vast majority of the Republican Party supports an agenda of environmental deregulation and inaction on climate change. Take Trumps nominee to head the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt. All along it was clear that Pruitt would be a rock solid opponent of federal regulatory efforts aimed at reducing carbon emissions. As Brad Plumer wrote last year during Pruitts tenure as Oklahoma attorney general he joined or led state lawsuits to block virtually every major federal regulation around climate and air pollution that Obamas EPA has put forward and professed to believe that the science around climate change was unsettled. Anyone even remotely concerned about climate change should naturally have opposed Pruitts nomination to head the USs top environmental regulatory agency and yet the sole Republican senator who voted against Pruitts confirmation was Susan Collins of Maine. The vast majority of the partys politicians simply do not think its a problem to appoint an EPA administrator who doesnt take the climate science consensus seriously. The same is true of the GOPs grassroots In a 2016 Pew survey only 23 percent of Republican voters said they believed Earth was getting warmer because of human activity. The occasional notable Republican politician who does conclude that the scientific consensus is accurate and tries to work with Democrats on the issue gets slammed by these passionate and well organized groups and can face serious pressure from the right as happened to Lindsey Graham when he was working on a cap and trade bill in 2010 and got attacked by Fox News. So its no surprise that most in the party decide not to stick their necks out lest they run afoul of the base and risk a primary challenge. Even Mitt Romney one of the few major Republicans who openly called on Trump to stay in the Paris agreement in recent weeks dodged and obfuscated on climate change when he was actually running for president and facing electoral pressures. We dont know whats causing climate change he said in October 2011. I'm not in this race to slow the rise of the oceans or to heal the planet he joked in August 2012. He only started acknowledging the seriousness of the issue in 2015 years after his loss. The reality is that one of the USs two major political parties is institutionally committed at nearly every level to the same basic agenda of environmental deregulation and inaction on carbon emissions. Trumps withdrawal in Paris isnt an odd outlier but instead rests on that foundation.	False	False	False	True	False
At a town hall event in Ames Iowa Wednesday Democrat candidate for president Beto ORourke compared the Green New Deal to defeating the Nazis and surviving the Great Depression. Why is it that Democrats clearly lacking in any context of what World War II and living in the greatest generation were like enjoy comparing these things to mundane policy initiatives? Addressing the Green New Deal ORourke summoned his followers to harness the the most ingenious mechanism yet devised by humankind to free ourselves from a dependence on fossil fuels. The mechanism Robert Francis is referring to is a democracy. Meanwhile what comes out of Betos mouth next is not in fact ingenious. Its exactly what we did to face the Nazi threat the existential threat to Western democracies in 1941 he said. Exactly what we did to lift millions out of the Great Depression and build the largest middle class the world had yet seen. And is exactly what we need to do now to free ourselves from a dependence on fossil fuels greenhouse gas emissions invest in the jobs and technologies of renewable energy that will allow us to meet our obligation and allow this country once again to claim its status as the indispensable nation. Its hard not to look at this hyperactive Gen X er and think this is exactly what the far left has become a group that has rarely experienced hardship in their lifetime because of the greatest generation comparing everything they find upsetting to the greatest generation. Beto likes his World War II comparisons so much that he mentions it time and again when discussing the threat of global warming. Sure every time he mentions it ORourke is mocked relentlessly by those outside of his little campaign crowds. But he doesnt care because in his mind its real. How else to explain last months comments that environmental activists are just like those who were on the beaches in Normandy. When you think about leadership those who preceded us those who were on the beaches in Normandy those who faced an existential threat to Western democracy and our way of life they showed us the way he said referencing a plan to fight climate change. This is the final chance he added echoing Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez warning that the world will end due to climate change. The scientists are unanimous on this. We have no more than 12 years to take incredibly bold action on this crisis. Every time I watch this guy speak I think of the UPS Guy from Mad TV. How does a man who under normal circumstances would be working as a barista in the local coffee shop dole out knowledge of experience on World War II to a Democrat party who eagerly laps it up? How did the resistance get to this point? Its embarrassing.	False	True	False	False	False
In Europe World Leaders Try To Change Trump's Mind On Climate Change It was eight against one according to German Chancellor Angela Merkel. On one side leaders of Canada Japan France Germany Italy and the United Kingdom plus two EU representatives. On the other side President Trump. And up for debate the peril of climate change and the urgency of the U.S. commitment to the Paris accord to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Merkel said that everyone at the table at the G 7 summit in Taormina Italy was urging Trump to stick with the pact according to Reuters. After that conversation Trump economic adviser Gary Cohn said the president's views are evolving and that he feels much much more knowledgeable after the conversation with world leaders. He came here to learn. He came here to get smarter Cohn said. His views are evolving which is exactly as they should be. Any decision on climate change would ultimately be based on what's best for the United States Cohn said. The Paris accord created in 2015 after lengthy negotiations calls on 196 nations to ratchet back greenhouse gas emissions. The goal is to keep the rise in global temperatures no higher than 2 degrees Celsius as compared with pre industrial levels. As NPR reported at the time the global average temperature has already increased about 1 degree Celsius. The deal includes voluntary pledges to reduce emissions. It also calls for developed countries to provide billions of dollars to help the developing world switch from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources. The accord was historic in its scope and its ambition even though its reliance on voluntary pledges made it less robust than some advocates had hoped. On the campaign trail Trump said he would cancel the Paris deal. He has previously suggested that climate change is a hoax and appointed as the head of the EPA a man who said he does not believe human activity is a primary contributor to global warming. Climate change and its impacts have been observed by scientists working in multiple fields and the overwhelming scientific consensus is that human activity is the primary cause. But since taking office Trump has not moved to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris agreement. He has rolled back a number of Obama era climate change measures which will hamper U.S. efforts to fulfill its Paris pledges. But he hasn't retracted the pledges themselves. Just this week members of his administration indicated that the White House had not yet decided what to do on the issue. Before the conversation between Trump and the other G 7 leaders Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni noted that all the other countries had confirmed total agreement to the pact while the U.S. commitment was an open question. We are sure that after an internal reflection the United States will also want to commit to it Gentiloni said according to the Associated Press. But Gentolini and other world leaders weren't just waiting for internal reflection. They added some external pressure too. French President Emmanuel Macron reportedly discussed climate change with Trump at length on Thursday at a meeting in Brussels. Leaders of the Roman Catholic Church broached the topic when Trump visited the Vatican. And then there was the chat between the G 7 leaders. Merkel called the conversation controversial. Cohn said it was robust. Still to be determined whether it was persuasive or consequential.	True	False	False	True	True
Scientists say that 2016 has been confirmed as the warmest year on record. Photo GettyEyeEm The evidence behind global climate change continues to mount and scientists keep speaking out. Now they hope the world will listen. The latest international climate report from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA confirms that 2016 was the third consecutive year of record global heat. On Thursday afternoon the American Meteorological Society published the 27th annual State of the Climate report which verifies last year surpassed 2015 as the hottest since record keeping began in 1880. Based on preliminary data NASA and NOOA had made the same assessment back in January but this weeks report is considered definitive. Were scientists and were providing objective information Jessica Blunden a climate scientist at NOAAs National Climatic Data Center in Asheville N.C. told Yahoo News. We dont go into policy but we provide the information for people who want to go further with that. According to the report the effect of long term global warming and a powerful El Nio early on pushed 2016 into record setting warmth. The global average sea level reached a new record high last year as well to 3.25 inches above the average level in 1993 which marks the beginning of the satellite altimeter record. Scientists also said that the average Arctic land surface temperature continued to warm and global ice and snow cover continued to decline. Sea ice extents in the Antarctic hit record daily and monthly lows in August and November. The State of the Climate report is based on contributions from nearly 500 scientists from more than 60 countries using tens of thousands of measurements from several independent data sets. This summary of the global climate confirms data released on Jan. 18 based on analyses from scientists at NASAs Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York. Blunden said the use of additional independent data sets distinguishes this report from what came before. The big difference in this report is we dont just look at NOAA data. There are about four different independent data sets we looked at to come to this conclusion Blunden told Yahoo News. Its not just NOAA who is agreeing with it. NASA the U.K. Met Office and the Japan Meteorological Agency are agreeing. Since the previous data was released mere days before President Trumps inauguration this peer reviewed report is the most thorough assessment of climate change officially released during the Trump era. Deke Arndt chief of the climate monitoring branch at NOAAs National Centers for Environmental Information described the report as diagnostic when asked if anyone from the White House had weighed in on itor questioned its findings. This report is a diagnostic report. It basically diagnoses what is happening in the climate system Arndt said on a conference call. Its intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that youre talking about. Concentrations of major greenhouse gases in the atmosphere also reached to new highs in 2016. For instance the global average concentration of carbon dioxide CO2 the primary driver of anthropogenic climate change in the atmosphere reached 402.9 parts per million ppm. This was the first time on record that CO2 concentration exceeded 400 ppm. The consensus of climate scientists is that the maximum safe level is 350.	True	False	False	True	False
Sen. Kamala Harris was the first candidate to mention the Green New Deal in the first presidential debate when she corrected NBC moderator Chuck Todd. I dont even call it climate change she said. Its a climate crisisThat is why I support a Green New Deal. And yet of the top four presidential candidates Harris has the thinnest legislative record when it comes to climate change her 2019 bill to electrify school bus fleetshas taken only a slice at the problem. On Mondaythe day beforethe second round of debates among the 20 Democratic presidential hopefuls she released the first major climate proposal of her campaign partnering with the original author of the Green New Deal resolution Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez. The proposal called the Climate Equity Act is not a comprehensive plan for addressing the climate crisis or cutting pollution but it focuses on addressing equity and environmental racism echoing the broader themes of Harris campaign. It does begin to answer one of the key questions around the Green New Deal debate which is how to include low income and communities of colorthe frontline voices facing the most dire effects of climate changein the legislative process. From the toxic air embattling Cancer Alley in Louisiana and Asthma Alley in the Bronx to the unsafe drinking water in Californias San Joaquin Valley and Flint Michigan Harris said the nations bedrock environmental protections have not stopped frontline communities from continually falling through the cracks. The proposal requires that any environmental legislation receive an equity score to assess its impact on frontline communities much in the same way the Congressional Budget Office scores the economic costs and impacts of bills. The proposal also requires an extra level of scrutiny for White House executive actions on low income communities and people of color and feedback from those affected communities. A new Climate and Environmental Justice officewouldcoordinate all the impact assessment efforts. We cannot accept a status quo where children of color are drinking toxic water in Flint or breathing toxic air in Louisianas Cancer AlleyHarris said in a statement. This systemic environmental injustice will only get worse and become more ingrained if climate and environmental policies like the Green New Deal do not specifically focus on lifting up these communities. Mustafa Ali the former head of the EPA environmental justice office noted that the idea of scoring environmental justice impacts is something advocates have pushed for years. When you look at where most of the fossil fuel facilities are located they are in communities of color Ali said. That same pollution is warming up our planet and warming our oceans. People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices. Harris is not the only presidential candidate who has come out with a plan focused on environmental justice.Jay Inslee released the fifth plank of his climate change package on Monday that refocuses the White House Council of Environmental Quality as a new clearinghouse for environmental justice and has its own scoring mechanism for impacts. Ali points out an equity score is potentially significant because it helps put up a wall of protections around those communitiesaddingI think its just now starting to gather steam.	True	False	False	True	False
The White House has declined to say whether Donald Trump believes human activity contributes to climate change as the president pulled America out of the Paris agreement. Administration officials were also unable to offer revised US carbon emission targets or say what changes to the global landmark accord would persuade Trump to re enter it. But they did offer assurance that America will abide by the lengthy exit process outlined in the deal waiting three and a half years to formally withdraw. Trump announced on Thursday the US would join Nicaragua and Syria as the only countries to shun the Paris agreement characterising it as a reassertion of Americas sovereignty and saying he was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh not Paris. There was a chorus of condemnation from world leaders former president Barack Obama and Trumps defeated election opponent Hillary Clinton who branded it a historic mistake. Shortly after Trump spoke in the Rose Garden at the White House to applause from supporters two senior administration officials briefed reporters in the west wing. The officials who did not wish to be named did nothing to alter perceptions of the US president as a climate change denier when asked whether he believed human activity was a contributory factor. One official replied So I think the fact that the president in his speech today said he wants to come back and renegotiate a better deal for the United States and for the world I think speaks for itself. The journalist shot back So is that a yes? Its a yes or no question. The official said Again I think that speaks for itself. The journalist pressed It doesnt speak for itself so is that a yes? Does he believe human activity contributes to climate change? The official said I have not talked to the president about his personal views on whether I was not with the president on his trip. I did not talk to the president about his personal views on what is contributing to climate change. The official insisted his own views were irrelevant while a White House staff member interjected Can we stay on topic please? The official echoed Can we stay on topic please? implying that Trumps views on the causes of climate change were irrelevant to the Paris decision. On 27 March the same official proved evasive on Trumps views when questioned by the Guardian. This week Sean Spicer the White House press secretary also said he had not asked the presidents opinion on the matter. Scott Pruitt the head of the Environmental Protection Agency has said he would not agree that carbon from human activity is the primary cause of global warming while in 2014 Trump referred to it as a hoax. On Thursday in a speech that kept a campaign pledge and echoed the fiery America first nationalism of his inaugural address Trump said As of today the United States will cease all implementation of the non binding Paris accord. During Obamas tenure the US had agreed under the accord to reduce emissions by more than a quarter below 2005 levels by 2025. The administration officials declined to specify new targets or give even a rough estimate of Americas intended nationally determined contribution to limiting greenhouse gas emissions. But they pointed to Americas existing record. I think leading the world is pretty good right? one said. I think that speaks for itself. The Paris accord came into effect on 4 November 2016. It makes provision for parties to withdraw but notice can be given only three years after it kicks in. Withdrawal would take effect a year after that meaning November 2020 a date that coincides with the next US presidential election raising the prospect that the issue remains alive during the campaign. First of all the whole withdrawal process will be consistent with the Paris agreement an official said. So the Paris agreement has to be in force for three years before you can actually submit a notice formally for withdrawal which takes at least a year. During this period the United States will not acknowledge or do anything to implement the current pledge put down by President Obama. Now whats the negotiating process? I think thats going to be determined by the president as we move forward. The leaders of France Germany and Italy joined to express regret at Trumps decision and insisted the agreement cannot be renegotiated. One of the administration officials responded If you look at the Europeans if you look at other major economies or allies or partners they have a strong interest in finding common ground with the United States and again we dont want to get out ahead of ourselves here on what may be discussed or not. There are a lot of different issues related to the international climate agenda that may not necessarily fall into the Paris bucket per se. He added The president is very sincere when he says he wants a better deal he wants to negotiate potentially bringing us back in Paris depending on what that looks like ... I think its a little bit more nuanced than stay in or not. Officials at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology MIT challenged a set of talking points issued to support Trumps decision as misleading. A statement from MIT said The relevant MIT researchers believe that the Paris agreement is an unprecedented and vital effort by nearly 200 countries to respond to the urgent threat of global climate change.	True	True	False	True	False
A top Oregon Senate Democrat on Tuesday flinched in the face of a Republican walkout acknowledging that there are not enough votes to pass a major bill to address climate change. House Bill 2020 does not have the votes on the Senate floor said Senate President Peter Courtney Tuesday morning in an admission of defeat. That will not change. The central provision of House Bill 2020 is to institute a cap and trade mechanism for carbon dioxide across the state a mechanism to cut emissions 45 percent below 1990 levels by 2035 and 80 percent by 2050. Its a long thorough piece of legislation that mandates carbon emission reductions across the states economy while accounting for job quality standards and economic equity. And it would make Oregon the second state after New York with a legally binding economy wide greenhouse gas reduction target. Theres been incredible work going into that bill Courtney said. But according to Rick Osborn communications director for the Oregon Senate Majority office Democrats werent able to muster the votes for HB 2020 within their own caucus. Oregon Republicans argued that the bill would harm their rural constituents and energy intensive industries like cement production. They also said they were being bullied by Senate Democrats. And so 11 of them fled the state capitol on Thursday apparently to an undisclosed location in Idaho to deny quorum for a vote on the bill. Yet the walkout now appears to have been a highly politicized charade since Democrats may not have had the votes to begin with. My understanding is that it was known last week before the Republicans walked out Osborn told Vox. Courtneys admission is not rewarding Senate Republicans for bad behavior. Democratic Gov. Kate Brown nonetheless last week sent state police to find the lawmakers and instituted a 500 per day fine per person for each day they werent present at a legislative session. The Republicans are not standing against climate change theyre standing against democracy she said during a press conference Tuesday. Republicans had used the moment as an opportunity to appear defiant with one Republican state senator Brian Boquist even threatening police. Lawmakers closed down the capitol on Saturday after receiving credible threats from militia groups in favor of the Republican walkout. On Tuesday some of the Republicans in hiding were not sure what to make of Courtneys statement about the votes. And they werent committing to returning to work either according to Oregon Public Broadcastings Lauren Dake Even if Courtney wants to throw in the towel it may not be easy to kill the climate change bill to bring Republicans back to Salem as the Oregonian explained Although Courtney wields significant power in the Senate he cannot easily kill the climate bill in order to secure Republicans return. One possible first step could be for the Senate to vote to send the bill back to a committee but such a vote could not happen without a quorum meaning at least two Republicans would have to return to the Capitol. Another option that would also require a quorum could be a motion to postpone the bill indefinitely which under Senate rules would mean the bill could not be considered during this legislative session. If and when the bill dies it would be a painful defeat for Democrats who won legislative supermajorities in both chambers of the Oregon legislature in the last election. Oregon has also been working on carbon pricing policies since 1997. The concession from Democrats may have been motivated by a time constraint. The Oregon state legislative session ends on June 30 and more than 100 bills including funding for several state agencies are at risk of being scrapped. Democrats have conceded to Republican walkouts before yielding on major gun control and vaccine legislation. This latest surrender likely means that state Republicans despite being in the minority will continue to hold a veto over Democrats agenda.	True	True	False	True	False
According to data fromBrazils National Institute for Space Research NISR which monitors deforestation and wildfires around 74000 fires have occurred across the Amazon rainforest in 2019 an 84 percent increase from the same period in 2018. Macron took to Twitter on Thursday to express concern about the fires that have reached a record number this year devastating vast swathes of forest long described as the lungs of the earth. Our house is burning. Literally. The Amazon rain forest the lungs which produces 20 of our planets oxygen is on fire Macron wrote on Twitter. It is an international crisis. Members of the G7 Summit lets discuss this emergency first order in two days Meanwhile a spokesperson for the Elyse Palace said that in light of Brazils attitude these recent weeks Macron can only conclude that President Bolsonaro lied to him during the Osaka Summit in June where world leaders agreed on the urgent need to combat climate change pollution and environmental destruction. The decisions and statements from Brazil these recent weeks show clearly that President Bolsonaro has decided to not respect his commitments on the climate nor to involve himself on the issue of biodiversity the spokesperson said. As a consequence Macron now plans to veto any trade deal in its current state between the European Union and the Mercosur bloc of South American nations including Brazil Argentina Paraguay and Uruguay. Posting on Facebook Bolsonaro accused Macron of making personal political gains in an internal matter for Brazil and other Amazonian countries adding that the sensationalist tone he used does nothing to solve the problem. These countries that send money here they dont send it out of charity he said.They send it with the aim of interfering with our sovereignty. Yet amid rising international pressure the 63 year old former army captain reportedly signed an executive order deploying the military to help reduce the wildfires which he previously blamed on NGOs who were seeking to undermine his administration. On the question of burning in the Amazon which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money what is the intention? Bolsonaro told reporters in Brasilia. Maybe I am not affirming it these NGOs are carrying out some criminal actions to draw attention against me against the government of Brazil. This is the war we are facing.	True	True	False	True	False
The Trump administration pointed to key offshore drilling safety regulations adopted in the wake of the catastrophic 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill in its sweeping proposal to open up nearly all U.S.waters to oil and gas development only to turn around in the months since and work toroll back those very safeguards. The controversial drilling plan released in January as part of President Donald Trumps energy dominance agenda would make available for oil and gas leasing roughly 90 percent of the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf including large swaths of the Arctic Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. The Interior Department led by Secretary Ryan Zinke noted in the lengthy proposal that while offshore oil and gas production will never be totally risk free the agency has made and is continuing to make substantial reforms to improve the safety and reduce the possible adverse environmental impacts of those activities. Elizabeth Johnson Klein the Interior Departments associate deputy secretary under Obama said the language first appeared in a draft of the current program released in January 2015. She said it references the Well Control Rule and the Production Safety Systems Rule two regulations that were under development back in early 2015 and are now on Trumps chopping block. The language also points to broader reform efforts that occurred after the Gulf spill including thedivision of the Minerals Management Service the scandal plagued agency faced with the conflicting tasks of issuing leases and policing offshore drilling operations into three new agencies. Days before the Trump administration unveiled its plans for a massive expansion of offshore drilling it moved to weaken the Production Safety Systems Rule a set of regulations pertaining to maintenance of offshore platforms. At the time the Interior Departments Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement one of the agencies born out of the reorganization of the Minerals Management Service estimated that the move would save companies some 288 million over 10 years. The changes finalized last month and slated to take effect on Dec. 27 loosen notification and certification rules for fossil fuel companies and toss out a requirement that offshore equipment be designed to withstand the most extreme weather and pressure conditions. In May the Trump administration took aim at the Well Control Rule a safety monitoring regulation meant to prevent the kind of incident that killed 11 workers and resulted in some 200 million gallons of crude oil leaking into the Gulf of Mexico. Finalized in 2016 six years after the Deepwater Horizon disaster the rule requires additional inspection and maintenance of blowout preventers a device designed to automatically seal a well and stop an uncontrolled release of oil and gas. The Interior Departmentsproposed overhaulwould loosen the inspection and oversight requirements for this equipment. Like the rollback of the Production Safety Systems Rule this effort is all about helping industry. In fact many of the proposed changes to the Well Control Rule were requested by oil companies as Eric Lipton of The New York Times reported in March. In comments submitted to the agency in August 10 state attorneys general argued that weakening the rule at the same time as the Trump administration is looking to radically expand offshore drilling is analogous to taping over the mirrors and unbuckling ones seat belt just before getting on the highway. Donald Boesch a professor of marine science at the University of Maryland who served on the bipartisan commission that investigated the causes of the Deepwater Horizon blowout said easing the safety rules is both premature and ill considered. He also expressed concern about merging the two agencies but said the administration has in effect already done that by putting the safety bureau in the hands of Angelle a big proponent of offshore fossil fuel development. In April 2017 Trump signed an executive order aimed at opening up protected areas of the Arctic and Atlantic oceans to oil and gas leasing. It instructed the Interior Department to review the current five year program and write new rules for offshore oil and gas drilling under the guise of an America First Offshore Energy Strategy. If approved the leasing plan would go into effect from 2019 to 2024 and replace the current program which is set to run through 2022 and was approved following an extensive multiyear review. The offshore drilling announcement drew immediate outrage from both Democrats and Republicans who expressed concern about possible environmental damage and negative effects on tourism. Days after the proposals release Zinke traveled to Florida and announced that on the recommendation of Gov. Rick Scott a staunch Trump supporter he was removing the states coastal waters from consideration. Zinke walked backFloridas exemption after other states demanded that they receive the same pass. He has since hinted to officials from at least six states that the waters off their coasts will not be included in the final plan Reuters reported this week.	True	False	False	True	False
Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro has ruled out accepting a G7 offer of aid to fight fires in the Amazon rainforest unless he gets an apology from his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron. Mr Bolsonaro said the French leader should apologise for insulting him personally by calling him a liar. Mr Macron had accused him of lying about fighting climate change. Aid worth 22m 18m was announced by Mr Macron at a summit in France of the seven leading industrial powers. Satellite data show a record number of fires burning in Brazil most of them in the Amazon region. Earlier Brazilian ministers said the G7 money was not needed and they accused foreign powers of wanting control of the Amazon. Last week Mr Macron said Mr Bolsonaro had lied to him at a G20 summit in Osaka Japan in June by failing to respect his climate commitments and by failing to pursue biodiversity. Mr Macron said France would not ratify a huge trade deal with South American nations unless Brazil did more to fight fires in the Amazon. On Tuesday Mr Bolsonaro told reporters in the capital Brasilia Mr Macron must withdraw the insults that he made to my person. Firstly he called me a liar. He also accused Mr Macron of questioning Brazilian sovereignty over the Amazon region Brazilian news website G1 reports. To talk or to accept anything from France whether it be with the best possible intentions he Mr Macron will have to withdraw those words and then we can talk he said. The two presidents hold sharply different political views with Mr Bolsonaro hailing from the far right in Brazil and Mr Macron elected in a run off against the far right in France. In another development Mr Bolsonaro responded to a joke on Facebook mocking the age of Mr Macron's wife Brigitte who at 65 is 25 years his senior. He wrote Do not humiliate the guy ha ha. Asked about Mr Bolsonaro's remarks Mr Macron said they were extraordinarily rude and sad. Adding to the row over the aid offer Mr Bolsonaro's chief of staff Onyx Lorenzoni mocked the fire that ravaged Notre Dame cathedral in Paris in April. Macron cannot even avoid a predictable fire in a church that is part of the world's heritage and he wants to give us lessons for our country? he said quoted by the Globo news website. As the largest rainforest in the world the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming. It spans a number of countries but the majority of it falls within Brazil. Wildfires often occur in the dry season in Brazil but satellite data published by Brazil's space agency show an increase of 80 this year. BBC analysis has also found that the record number of fires being recorded coincides with a sharp drop in fines being handed out for environmental violations. Mr Bolsonaro has previously said his government lacks the resources to fight the record number of fires in the Amazon region but his government is also being accused of slashing funding for environmental protection. The funding for Brazil's environment agency has gone down by 95 this year Yadvinder Malhi professor of Ecosystem Science at the University of Oxford told the BBC's Today programme. On Friday President Bolsonaro authorised the military to help tackle the blazes. Brazil says 44000 soldiers have been deployed to combat the fires and environmental crimes in the Amazon and military operations are under way in seven states as the result of requests for assistance from local governments. Jorgimar Alberto from Roraima one of the states most affected by the fires has seen the burning of most of the land surrounding his wooden house. It's a risky situation we have lots of crops here and everything is burning such as the cashew trees he told the BBC. I even had to keep the animals inside so that they don't burn as well. Every year it is the same these fires are disturbing the region a lot. Environmental officials helped him extinguish the fires last week only for them to reignite he said. His wife could not stand staying in the house with the smell of burning and the threat getting ever closer so she left. Lumberyard owner Edson Oliveira from southern Amazonas said he did not believe the media coverage about the Amazon. In my opinion the parts that are burning are the same that burn every year he told the BBC. Asked what he would like politicians to do for the Amazon he said that he would like economic alternatives for people here to find a way we can make use of the natural wealth we have here. It's no use pointing the finger at what's wrong without bringing alternatives to people he said. The 22m was announced on Monday as the leaders of the G7 Canada France Germany Italy Japan the UK and the US met in Biarritz France. Mr Macron said the funds would be made available immediately primarily to pay for more firefighting planes and that France would also offer concrete support with military in the region. Greenpeace France described the G7's response to the crisis as inadequate given the urgency and magnitude of this environmental disaster. As international concern over the fires spread Hollywood actor Leonardo DiCaprio pledged 5m towards helping the rainforest. He has long maintained that European countries are trying to gain access to Brazil's natural resources. He alleges that European interest in the welfare of the Amazon is a thin guise for attempts to gain a foothold in the region. Asked by international journalists about environmental protection of the Amazon at a press briefing on 6 July he said Brazil is like a virgin that every pervert from the outside lusts for.	False	True	False	True	True
Brazil called up its military to combat fires that are raging in the Amazon after international protests over the governments seeming unwillingness to act in the face of an environmental disaster. Around 44000 troops and military aircraft will be made available for what has been described as an unprecedented effort to fight fires in at least six Brazilian states. It remains unclear how many of those troops will be put on the line to combat the forest fires. Although fires are common this time of year they are more widespread. So far nearly 77000 wildfires have been reported across the country this year which marked an 85 percent increase from the same period last year. And while the fires have been burning for weeks the international outcry grew this week as photographs spread on social media. Protests took place in Brazil and across the world Friday and Saturday demanding that the Brazilian government take action. Much of the attention has focused on Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro a long time critic of the countrys environmental regulations who had tried to minimize the effects of the fires. Yet his tune appeared to change after leaders in Europe said a major trade deal could be at risk and many on social media started calling for a boycott of Brazilian products. Bolsonaro approved the involvement of the military to help put out fires in a televised speech Friday in which he claimed his government would have zero tolerance for environmental crimes. Protecting the rain forest is our duty he said. That was quite a change in tune for a president who had previously described environmental protections as an impediment for economic growth and had blamed non governmental organizations of starting the fires. Yet despite the new found sense of urgency some are skeptical that the involvement of the military would really be able to do much. Once you have a huge forest fire like that especially when you dont have all the kind of forest fire fighting equipment that you have in places like the U.S. or Portugal its difficult to extinguish Alfredo Sirkis executive director of Brazil Climate Center a think tank said. Theyll only be extinguished by themselves depending on the weather conditions. It was clear though that deploying the military was also in part a public relations ploy. A military leader for example said that part of its mission involved creating a positive perception of the country. As attention focused on the fires burning in the Amazon it became clear that Europeans have taken the role as the global leaders in the fight against climate change notes the New York Times. As European leaders led by French President Emanuel Macron criticized Brazil for its inaction President Donald Trump waited until Friday evening to say that the United States was willing to help only to add that future trade prospects with Brazil are very exciting.	True	False	True	True	True
Since thenthat figure has risen to 400 scientific papers. Can you imagine the misery and consternation and horror this is going to cause in the corrupt rancid rent seeking world of the Climate Industrial Complex? I can. It will look something like this. Just to be clear so the greenies cant bleat about being misrepresented here is what these various papers say Modern temperatures sea levels and extreme weather events are neither unusual nor unprecedented. Many regions of the Earth are cooler now than they have been for most of the last 10000 years. Natural factors such as the Sun 106 papers multi decadal oceanic atmospheric oscillations such as the NAO AMOPDO ENSO 37 papers decadal scale cloud cover variations and internal variability in general have exerted a significant influence on weather and climate changes during both the past and present. Detecting a clear anthropogenic forcing signal amidst the noise of unforced natural variability may therefore be difficult. And current emissions mitigation policies especially related to the advocacy for renewables are often costly ineffective and perhaps even harmful to the environment. On the other hand elevated CO2 and a warmer climate provide unheralded benefits to the biosphere i.e. a greener planet and enhanced crop yields. In other words nobody is denying that climate changes nobody is denying that the planet has warmed by 0.8 degrees C in the last 150 yearswhile only a handfuldeny that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases has the power to influence temperatures. What they are saying in their different ways is that global warming as in the big scare story that the planet is heating up at a catastrophic unprecedented rate because of man made CO2 emissions is bunk or that the methods being used to combat the problem are bunk. Here courtesy of Kenneth Richard who has waded through them all are some examples of what they say. Greenhouse Effect Not the Main Driver of Climate Together with these 400 new papers that makes 900 science papers in the last two years casting doubt on global warming.	False	False	False	True	False
Reuters Rhode Island on Monday sued several major oil companies including Exxon Mobil Corp and BP plc accusing them of contributing to climate change that is damaging infrastructure and coastal communities in the state. The lawsuit announced by Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Kilmartin was the first by a state seeking to hold oil companies responsible for costs associated with climate change and followed similar cases by several local governments nationally. The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products. For a very long time there has been this perception that Big Oil was too big to take on but here we are the smallest state taking on some of the biggest corporate polluters in the world Kilmartin said in a statement. The lawsuit filed in Providence County Superior Court named as defendants Exxon BP Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Chevron Corp among other companies. Shell in a statement said lawsuits that masquerade as climate action and impede the collaboration needed for meaningful change were not the answer to climate change. The other companies did not respond to requests for comment. The lawsuit by the Democratic attorney general follows similar cases by U.S. cities and local governments arguing the production of fossil fuels had led to rising tides that damaged shorelines roads and other properties requiring remediation. The lawsuit contended that the companies sought to refute scientific findings regarding how greenhouse gas pollution was causing climate change and failed to prevent the harm that would result from consumers using fossil fuel products. The lawsuit said that companies also violated the states Environmental Rights Act by polluting and destroying natural resources in Rhode Island. Kilmartin is seeking to force the companies to pay for damages associated with climate change citing the costs taxpayers were incurring to repair roads and bridges and rebuild coastal structures. The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages as well as orders requiring the companies to pay abatement costs and to disgorge profits.	True	True	False	True	True
Alexandria Ocasio Cortez has found something else to blame on the supposed climate crisis. A few weeks ago she let us all know that heavy rain in a city built on a swamp was absolute proof of catastrophic global warming. She posted a picture of a few inches of water and called it unprecedented flooding even though Washington D.C. has had actual major floods several times throughout its relatively short history. Then there was the explosion at an oil refinery which despite not being a weather event at all nor being caused by one was somehow the fault of climate change. Weird how everything just so happens to reinforce her political narrative and now shes back with another hot take. You see it rained in New York City and that was obviously caused by global warming. Did it rain a lot? No not really. There was no record rainfall or a weeks worth of severe storms. It justrained something it has presumably been doing there for millions of years. In reality New York Citys subway system is a dumpster fire of mismanagement. The citys communist Mayor Bill de Blasio has run it into the ground with stupid financial decisions and misuse of funds. You see theyve got money to pay for illegal aliens healthcare but they cant keep the trains running or the sewage systems from backing up. The flooding in this case wasnt because of a massive downpour. It was because the infrastructure is falling apart. If a pipe bursts in your house thats not the fault of climate change. On a broader note Im confused. What happened to climate change leading to massive desertification and droughts? Now the alarmists want to complain about rain and flooding as if those are new phenomenons on the earth? Wouldnt those be good things in the face of supposed extreme heat? But making sense isnt a tenant of the climate religion. Ive got a new twitter! Please help by following 	True	False	False	True	False
Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd our email newsletter. WASHINGTON The Environmental Protection Agency plans to change the way it calculates the health risks of air pollution a shift that would make it easier to roll back a key climate change rule because it would result in far fewer predicted deaths from pollution according to five people with knowledge of the agencys plans. The E.P.A. had originally forecast that eliminating the Obama era rule the Clean Power Plan and replacing it with a new measure would have resulted in an additional 1400 premature deaths per year. The new analytical model would significantly reduce that number and would most likely be used by the Trump administration to defend further rollbacks of air pollution rules if it is formally adopted. The proposed shift is the latest example of the Trump administration downgrading the estimates of environmental harm from pollution in regulations. In this case the proposed methodology would assume there is little or no health benefit to making the air any cleaner than what the law requires. Many experts said that approach was not scientifically sound and that in the real world there are no safe levels of the fine particulate pollution associated with the burning of fossil fuels. Fine particulate matter the tiny deadly particles that can penetrate deep into the lungs and enter the bloodstream is linked to heart attacks strokes and respiratory disease.	False	False	False	True	False
You all know that oftentimes the first folks that get flooded out are the poorest communities. Theyre often communities of color. Theyre the ones who can least afford to deal with the climate crisis he said during the CNN town hall. We know that this climate crisis is going to affect all Americans and all folks around the world but we also know that its going to hit some people particularly hard people that are the first people to get affected he said. Castro said that after he announced his campaign he first went to San Juan Puerto Rico to make sure that they could recover from Hurricane Maria. I think about poor communities along the east coast he said. Frankly I connect the dot to places like Flint Michigan and I know that too oftentimes its people who are poor communities of color who take the brunt of storms that are getting more frequent and powerful. He said his climate plan calls for new civil rights legislation to address environmental injustice including making sure people could file lawsuits against polluters. We need to invest in these communities and their ability to withstand storms and other natural disasters and their ability to have something as simple as clean water or breathe clean air he said. He said as former Housing and Urban Development secretary in the Obama administration he found out that 70 percent of HUD funded public or subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site. Thats the environmentalinjustice and racism that were dealing with and my plan would equip Americans with the tools tofight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what isright now a tremendous injustice he said. He said to pay for his plan he would create a carbon pollution fee on corporations who are industrial scale polluters.	True	True	False	True	False
The EPAs announcement makes no mention of the risks coal ash poses to human health and the environment. Rather the agency justified its move by noting it is expected to save the utility sector between 31 and 100 million annually. Todays coal ash proposal embodies EPAs commitment to our state partners by providing them with the ability to incorporate flexibilities into their coal ash permit programs based on the needs of their states Pruitt said in a statement. Coal fired power plants in the United States produce roughly 140 million tons of coal ash per year containing toxic heavy metals such as arsenic lead selenium and other carcinogenic substances. The waste product is typically stored in wet ponds nearly 46 percent of which operated without liners to prevent hazardous chemicals from seeping into groundwater according to 2012 data released by the EPA. Living within a mile of a wet coal ash storage pond poses a greater health threat than smoking a pack of cigarettes a day raising the risk of cancer to one in 50 an EPA study from 2010 found. Children are particularly at risk of learning disabilities birth defects asthma and cancer with 1.54 million living near such storage sites according to EPA data cited by the Sierra Club. This is the second biggest toxic pollution threat in our country and we need to clean it up not make things easier for polluters Earthjustice attorney Lisa Evans said in a statement. People living near more than a thousand toxic coal ash sites are at risk. They face contaminated drinking water toxic dust in the air and serious health threats just because the EPA is choosing to side with polluters over the public. In 2014 the EPA catalogued 158 cases where coal ash compromised water quality including 22 that involved recycled waste product. And a government study in 2012 estimated that the damage to fish and wildlife at 21 disposal sites came at a cost of more than 2.3 billion enough money to construct 155 landfills with state of the art composite liners and leachate collection systems. The rule change marks the Trump administrations latest rollback of clean water regulations at a time when drinking water contamination crises are proliferating across the country. In February 2017 less than a month after taking office President Donald Trump signed a bill to allow coal companies to dump waste into streams. In June the EPA moved to repeal the 2015 Waters of the U.S. rule that extended 1972 Clean Water Act protections to roughly 20 million acres of wetlands and streams. The agency formally suspended the rule on Jan. 31. Scrapping the only federal rules on coal ash presents a major problem in the face of storms floods and other extreme weather made more frequent and intense by climate change. When Hurricane Maria made landfall over Puerto Rico last year flood waters swelled the river in the city of Guayama wreaking havoc on the citys 42000 residents and distributing its five story tall tower of coal ash. Coal ash in particular has long been a hot button issue in the utility industry. In 2014 Duke Energy one of the countrys biggest power companies spilled nearly 39000 tons of coal ash into the Dan River causing one of North Carolinas biggest environmental disasters in its history. In 2016 then Gov. Pat McCrory R signed a bill that dramatically watered down legislation forcing Duke to clean up its coal ash pits without requiring the company to excavate the waste or provide clean water to residents near the pond. Yet two years later the company is still battling environmentalists and regulators in the state as the utility seeks to pass the cleanup costs onto ratepayers in the form of a price hike. In a separate legal fight over coal ash the Tennessee Valley Authority the nations biggest public utility last month appealed a federal judges order to clean up decades of coal ash environmentalists say poisoned water in the Volunteer State. Eighteen states and an alliance of big corporate interests urged an appeals court to overturn the decision last month. Gutting the EPAs rules on coal ash pollution takes some pressure off the utilities but thrusts the industry back into the sort of regulatory uncertainty Pruitt vowed to alleviate. In 2014 before the EPA passed its coal ash rule the American Coal Ash Association a trade group complained about regulatory uncertainty that has impeded the beneficial use of coal ash for half a decade. Its unclear whether Pruitts new rule promotes recycling coal ash for other uses. Coal ash can be used to pave roads though the environmentalists say even that poses pollution risks. And last year Purdue University researchers announced new technology to sift rare earth elements highly valued components used in electronics and renewable energy hardware out of coal ash waste. Thomas Adams executive director of the American Coal Ash Association said he hopes the next part of the EPAs announcement will include changing a rule that mandates companies to go through a risk evaluation when stockpiling more than 12400 tons of coal ash for anything other than road projects. The EPA set the threshold in 2015 based on what Adams called an arithmetic error that he argued hurts the market for using coal ash in cement manufacturing or to fill structures such as building foundations. He said he hopes the EPA will raise the limit to 75000 tons. Thursdays announcement is part of a broader effort by the Trump administration to end a perceived war on coal waged by the Obama administration. Last year the Utility Solid Waste Activities Group petitioned the EPA to roll back the Obama era coal ash rule calling it burdensome inflexible and often impracticable. The organization of some 80 utilities warned that regulating coal ash disposal would result in significant economic and operational impacts to coal fired power generation and could even force power plants to shut down.	True	False	False	True	True
Shell is preparing to set strict carbon emissions targets in 2019 amid intense pressure from activist shareholders who believe energy companies should be held accountable for aspects of global warming. The company also plans on linking such targets to the pay of senior executives subject to a shareholder vote in 2020. Shell is still in talks with investors about the percentage to be targets but the companys top employees salaries could be affected The Financial Times reported Sunday. We will be systematically driving down our carbon footprint over time chief executive Ben van Beurden told reporters Sunday. We all know the benefits of energy but there are associated effects that we have to manage. The pledge is a significant change in position for van Beurden who had previously opposed such proposals citing concerns about potential lawsuits. His concerns about potential waves of lawsuits are not unfounded. Environmentalists have convinced several American cities to sue Exxon Chevron and other energy companies to force them to pay for supposedly making disasters worse. Judges have already dismissed several lawsuits but the fear of future litigation is not lost on Shell and others. Shell now aims to curb emissions by around 20 percent over the next 15 years and the company will hammer out specific targets starting in 2020. The latest move was backed by Climate Action 100 a group of nearly 300 international investors carrying roughly 32 trillion in assets. The company has also pledged to review its connections to industry lobbying groups that oppose the Paris agreement a non binding deal crafted in 2015 with the goal of dramatically reducing global carbon emissions over the next 15 years. Activist shareholders have continually pushed energy companies to make bold moves showing their adherence to cutting emissions. Some analyst groups worry activist shareholders use a largely unregulated industry to hoodwink U.S. companies into accepting proposals designed to tackle climate change that carry little long term benefits.RELATEDA Federal Judge Torches Two Lawsuits Trying To Blame Oil Companies For Climate Change So called proxy advisory firms craft disclosure requirements that force companies to show they are taking efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions. The process especially disadvantages small companies in favor of larger companies that have the resources to comply with investor dictates the American Council for Capital Formation noted in May. Proxy advisory firms provide analysis and consulting services to issuers and companies about how annual and special proxies should be voted. The lack of transparency and competition in the proxy advisory firm industry gives a small number of businesses significant influence over how corporations deal with environmental issues. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	False	False	True	True
The Environmental Protection Agency is expected to roll back more regulations on coal fired power plants Thursday. Its a striking move for two big reasons No new coal plants are being built in the US and the EPA itself along with 12 other federal agencies recently put out a sweeping report detailing the need to reduce emissions from fossil fuels because of the grave threat of climate change. Axios reported this week that on Thursday afternoon the agency will announce its intent to loosen Obama era restrictions on how much carbon dioxide new coal power plants can emit. Known as the New Source Performance Standards a provision under the Clean Air Act the rule established in 2015 said coal plants couldnt emit more than 1400 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt hour. This would have likely required new coal plants to install carbon capture technologies to limit some of their emissions. But the coal industry argued in court that these technologies are too expensive and immature to deploy at scale so the new standard is too difficult to meet. The lawsuit against the New Source Performance Standard was suspended once the EPA announced last year that it was looking to revise the rule. According to the New York Times the EPA wants to relax the limit to 1900 pounds of CO2 per MWh. These weaker standards come after an EPA proposal in August to replace another Obama regulation the Clean Power Plan which targets existing power plants. The replacement the Affordable Clean Energy rule would lead to 1400 additional premature deaths each year by 2030 according to EPAs own calculations. Weakening pollution rules for existing and new coal fired power plants is part of the Trump Administrations strategy to resurrect the decrepit US coal industry which has been shrinking and hemorrhaging jobs for decades. But its not regulations that are hurting the US coal industry its competition. Natural gas and renewables are increasingly cheaper than coal. With energy demand projected to stay level that means its coal thats going to yield. However the Trumps policies stand to slow the transition toward cleaner sources of energy at a time when scientists are warning that the world may have as little as 12 years to act to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius since the industrial revolution. Even as nations are gathering in Poland this week to discuss how to implement the Paris climate agreement the US delegation plans to host a panel touting the virtues of fossil fuels the biggest sources of greenhouse gas emissions that drive climate change. The rollbacks an international signal that were not taking carbon capture and sequestration and reducing impacts from coal seriously said Jay Duffy an associate attorney at the Clean Air Task Force. As weve pointed out over and over again the coal industry in the United States has been floundering for years and theres little Trump can do to stop it. In 2018 alone 20 coal fired power plants have closed or are scheduled to shut down. Overall coal power generation capacity has fallen by one third since 2010. And coal consumption is at its lowest level since 1979. Meanwhile coal mining jobs have cratered from a high of more than 800000 in the 1920s to roughly 76000 today. The EPAs latest proposal only affects new coal power plants. The last new coal plant to come online in the US was the 600 megawatt John W. Turk Jr. Power Plant in Arkansas back in 2012. Its actually one of the most high tech most efficient coal power plants in the country. But with a 1.8 billion price tag it was the most expensive project in Arkansas history. Duffy pointed out that the Turk plant emits about 1725 pounds of CO2 per megawatt hour so its already beating the EPAs proposed benchmarks. Its likely that with current technology any hypothetical new coal power plant would have to do almost nothing to cut its greenhouse gas emissions rendering the new regulation meaningless. Its nothing burger he said. Its a no standard standard. Yet coal plants are closing everywhere and no new ones are even on the drawing board. In fact environmental groups cant even sue to block the proposal at this point since there is no plant in the works that could potentially violate the Obama era greenhouse gas limits. No harm no foul. However environmental groups are ready to litigate if the proposal becomes finalized. Where this proposal could make a difference is in extending the lives of existing plants Duffy explained. Theres a quirk in EPA regulations that says that if you modify an existing coal plant enough it can be considered as a new plant. So in theory an aging power plant could get some upgrades that would extend its operating life but would also allow it to be held to the weaker greenhouse gas limit. Taken in tandem with all of the other Trump proposals to boost coal relaxed rules on stream protection coal ash and mercury as well as curbing incentives for clean energy it adds up to a prolonging of the steady demise of coal power in the United States. Correction An earlier version of this story said that environmental groups could not sue to block the EPAs latest New Source Performance Standard rule. Groups can sue once the proposal is finalized as a rule. However they cant sue while the rule is in the proposal stage and there are no power plants seeking to implement the proposal.	False	False	False	True	True
Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs claim the world is gonna end in 12 years shouldnt come as a shock to anyone because shes only repeating the same doomsday narrative pushed by some scientists and news outlets for months. In fact Ocasio Cortez followed up her remarks from Monday night with acoupletweetsdoubling down on her 12 year warning but also showing she didnt make it up. The freshman Democrat pointed to a Voxarticlewarning we have just 12 years to limit devastating global warming and a Guardianarticleclaiming we have 12 years to limit climate change catastrophe both articles were based on a United Nations report from October 2018. That U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC report examined what would need to be done in order to limit future global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius by 2100. The report was mandated by the Paris climate accord. The IPCC reported greenhouse gas emissions would need to fall 45 percent below 2010 levels by 2030 and then reach zero by 2050 for a 66 percent chance of keeping projected warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.RELATED Another Headline Grabbing Ocean Warming Study Is Full Of Factual Errors And Misleading Statements Scientist Says And in the months since that report news has been inundated with headlines warning its worse than we thought or the worlds ice sheets are reaching a tipping point. Themost widely reported climate studyin 2018warned we were on track for a hothouse Earth. Nearly ever natural disaster in 2018 were tied to global warming in some way from Californiasdevastating wildfirestohurricanesFlorence and Michael. All the news stories stressing climate alarm spurred calls for action on global warming. However many experts looking at the IPCCs report saw it asinfeasible to completely overhaul the global ecologyin 12 years and there are serious questions about the accuracy of U.N. climate models. Yet IPCC report authorsframedthis as a problem of political will not economics and technology. The report itself says there is no documented historic precedent for the sweeping changes needed to fight global warming. Thats the line activists and many politicians have taken up in the months since the IPCCs report. Indeed Ocasio Cortez saidglobal warming is her generations World War II. And what preceded World War II? The New Deal. Ocasio Cortez nowwants a Green New Dealto move the U.S. away from fossil fuels and address a variety of injustices she sees in our current economic system. And I think for younger people looking at this are more like how are we saying lets take it easy when 3000 Americans died last year how are we saying lets take it easy when the end person died from our cruel and unjust criminal justice system? Ocasio Cortez said at an event in New York City Monday night. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	True	True
They are essentially living corpses says Colombian scientist Rodrigo Bernal of Colombia's national tree. The ceroxylon quindiuense a distinct species of palm tree which was declared the country's national tree in 1985 is on the verge of extinction and most Colombians are not even aware of the problem. That is because it takes decades for the palms to show signs of decay even when they have already reached the end of their lifespan and scientifically they are dead explains Mr Bernal. He is one of the scientists who has been studying the trees over the past two decades and he is more than a little worried. Thousands of tourists travel to the Cocora Valley in Colombia's coffee region every year to marvel at the towering palms. But even in this area famous for its wax palms the trees are few and far between. The trees live for up to 200 years and because of their long lifespan their decay will only be seen by younger generations Mr Bernal told the BBC. This is why so many Colombians do not realise our national tree is dying out. Since 1989 the number of trees in the region has declined by 78 and there are now only about 2000 palms left in the Cocora Valley a group of scientists which has been monitoring the population says. The wax palms are not only a tourist attraction but a key component in the region's ecosystem. The fruits produced by the trees feed a large number of insects birds and mammals. But according to Mr Bernal the palms in the Cocora Valley are at risk. Much of the valley's once lush dense forest has been cut down to make way for cattle grazing. This poses problems for the seeds of the wax palm. They either get burned in the sun or they get eaten by the cows. Although the living trees are relatively healthy when they start to decay naturally there are no young saplings to take their place. The Quindo Wax Palm grows in very few areas in Colombia. Apart from the Cocora Valley they can be found in Tochecito an area in Valle del Cauca province. The little known Tochecito is thought to hold the largest number of trees an estimated 70 of the national total. But the fact that parts of the area were occupied by the now largely disbanded Farc guerrilla group means that research there was almost impossible. Scientists hope the number of trees may actually be bigger. Mr Bernal and his fellow scientists have turned their attention to Tochecito in the hope that they can preserve its wax palms before it is too late. With the area now safer and more accessible following the 2016 peace deal with the Farc rebels farmers are moving back and the scientists fear for the future of the national tree. We predict we could see half the wax palm population disappear in as little as 50 years' time says Luis Santiago Castillo Martnez of the Humboldt Institute an environmental research organisation. Tochecito is our best opportunity to protect the palms he says of the 42 sq km 16 sq mile area. The palm trees are legally protected under a law passed in 1985 which prevents their branches being cut off for use during religious celebrations such as Palm Sunday but there are few repercussions for those who completely fell the trees. Tochecito currently belongs to 40 private landowners and Mr Bernal along with the Humboldt Institute has been asking the Colombian government to declare the area a national park but so far with little success. The most we could achieve was to encourage the owners to declare their farms private reserves says Mr Bernal. Unfortunately there is a loophole to that status he adds. This just means your land is a protected area but it's an empty status as you can use your land however you see fit. If these landowners decide they want to clear their land they can. Mr Bernal and his fellow scientists have for years been urging the government to buy up the land a move they estimate would cost 10m 7.7m but so far no action has been taken. It's not a huge amount. It's cents for a nation like Colombia. The government has the authority to buy this land and protect the trees but refuses to do so. It is incredibly frustrating he says. The BBC approached Colombia's environment ministry ministry and the government body which oversees the management of Colombia's national parks for comment but did not receive an answer. Colombia's 58 national parks are managed by the National Parks Systems and while the number of those designated as protected in Colombia has been growing the budget has been cut leaving it struggling for resources. Mr Castillo says money is key The first step to protecting the palms will be to allocate the proper amount to the environmental sector. Mr Bernal and his fellow scientists have developed a management plan to save the species but the budget cuts mean their strategy is unlikely to be enacted. I'm so disappointed Mr Bernal says. This tree is beloved by Colombian people everyone knows it is our national tree But nobody knows we are about to lose it.	False	True	False	True	False
This story was originally published byGristand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration. More than 1000 people crowded into the Showbox a music venue in downtown Seattle on Tuesday afternoon to witness Pete Buttigieg make an appearance in the Emerald City. The presidential candidate was running more than 45 minutes late and was just beginning to lose his audienceIm starting not to love Pete so much someone remarkedwhen he took the stage. The mayor of South Bend Indiana hasrisen swiftly in the pollsand managed tooutraise the rest of the Democratic fieldthis quarter. Buttigieghas credited climate changefor inspiring him to jump into the presidential race. One of the reasons Im running for president is because America is running out of time he said on Tuesday framing the issue as a national security threat If were gonna get real about national security the time has come to treat climate disruption as the threat that it is. But Buttigieg hasnt yet released a climate plan on par with those proposed by some of his rivals including Washington Governor Jay Inslee who aims to mobilize9 trillion to combat the crisisand has based his entire presidential bid on the issue. SenatorElizabeth Warren former Texas RepresentativeBeto ORourke and evenJoe Biden the candidate to beataccording to most polls have proposed sweeping climate plans with trillions of dollars at play. Mayor Pete has released one climate related policy proposal so far aclimate corps similar to AmeriCorpsthat would put thousands of Americans to work on climate resilience and conservation endeavors. We do better when we have a project he said of his proposal at the Seattle event. But where does Buttigieg stand when it comes to implementing an economy wide plan? Buttigiegs answer to a question from the crowd shed light on what his climate plan could look like when or if he releases one. First A carbon tax and dividend. This is not about taking money out of the economy he said. I propose that we rebate that money right back out to the American people and we do it progressively. His pitch sounds like a revenue neutral carbon tax a fee on pollution that gets returned to taxpayers every year instead of going toward a climate resiliency fund or a green project. Well have to wait for his actual plan to figure out what he means when he says he wants to do it progressively. Its an idea that hasfailed at the ballot boxtwice in Washington state but a couple of other candidates including Inslee and Cory Booker have also championed some kind of carbon tax. Next massively increase the amount of federal RD that goes into not just renewable energy but also energy storage and carbon storage he said adding that this investment should be on par with the moon landing or the Manhattan Project. Every candidate with a climate plan so far has vowed to dedicate major resources to green research and development. Buttigieg said he wants toquadruple federal funding for RD. Then rejoin the Paris Agreementsomething thatall the Democrats running for president have said theyll doand host a stateside Pittsburgh Summit for mayors who are championing green policies and targets in their cities. A lot of the answers are coming from the communities he said. Finally Buttigieg emphasized the role rural America can play in mitigating the crisis. Every part of the American spectrum needs to be a part of the solution its not just cities he said. Buttigieg said earlier in the night that science sets the timeline for climate action not politics. But even if he took the White House in 2020 a carbon tax some more federal investment in RD a national service corps and yet another climate summit probably wont put the United States on the path to decarbonizationat the pace that science demands. At any rate it still doesnt have the same meat as the trillions promised and plans proposed by other candidates. Nevertheless some audience members were impressed by Buttigiegs vision of a green America. Nancy Lauterbach a 57 year old real estate agent said Buttigieg is savvy enough to put the RD that is needed into climate change. Ken Miller a 71 year old who owns a construction business liked the mayors authenticity. I thought his point that the timeline is set by science not by politics was compelling Miller said. As well as the fact that we as a country need a project and climate change is as good a one as well ever have.	True	True	True	True	True
He refused to call the rapid warming of the planet a crisis. He repeatedly misrepresented his own agencys findings about a rule to gut an Obama era power plant regulation inflating the emissions cuts the new proposal would mandate. He even mixed up two of the most important climate science reports to come out in the last three months admitting he hadnt fully read the report co authored by researchers at his own agency. It was a brazen if not unexpected stance from the nominee to become the EPAs 15th administrator. Wheeler isnt new to the job Last month he became the longest serving acting chief in the agencys history having taken over in July when former Administrator Scott Pruitt resigned in disgrace amid mounting scandals. In November 2017 when he appeared before the Senate environment and public works committee to interview for the EPAs No. 2 job Wheeler said he believed that man has an impact on the climate but whats not completely understood is what the impact is. In October the United Nations released a landmark determination that the world has until 2030 to halve global emissions or face catastrophic climate change. A month later the federal governments National Climate Assessment a congressionally mandated report issued by 13 agencies including the EPA confirmed the findings and warned of cataclysmic damage to the United States economy and human health and by 9F 5C or more by the end of this century. During Wednesdays hearing Wheeler initially mistook the United Nations report for the National Climate Assessment. Asked about the latter he said he did not review the report before it came out and that he held just one briefing meeting with his career staffers. He said the partial federal government shutdown now its fourth week forced him to delay future briefings. Wheeler dismissed thereportthis month that found U.S. emissions rose 3.4 percent last year blaming the jump on a manufacturing and industrial surge triggered by the Trump administrations deregulatory effort. But he claimed his proposals to dramatically weaken emissions rules for vehicles and power plants the largest and second largest sources of climate pollution respectively would provide reductions in line with the Obama era regulations they aim to replace. When pressed about the need to cut emissions Wheeler returned to a certain statistic over and over again stating that the Affordable Clean Energy rule he proposed in August would deliver carbon dioxide reductions 34 percent below 2005 levels compared to the 33 to 35 percent the Obama administrations Clean Power Plan would have provided. This is a fudged statistic however. The EPAsown analysisshows the so called ACE rule would actually increase CO2 emissions by 20 to 61 million tons nitrous oxide by 14000 to 43000 tons and sulfur dioxide by 29000 to 53000 tons. Those increases are expected to cause up to1400 premature deathsper year by 2030. Wheelers climate denial received some backup at Wednesdays hearing. Sen. James Inhofe R Okla. who once infamously brought a snowball to the Senate floor to debunk climate change submitted rebuttals to climate science reports from right wing think tanks such as the Competitive Enterprise Institute and the Cato Institute both of which are funded by the fossil fuel billionaire Koch brothers. Wheeler blamed the shutdown for the delay in releasing a plan to deal with toxic perfluorinated substances in drinking water. Over the past few years the chemicals known as PFAS and linked to cancer and thyroid disease have been found in water sources across the country. Wheeler however declined to commit to a two year deadline for setting a drinking water standard for PFAS. Republican senators praised Wheelers proposal to replace another Obama era rule that sought to safeguard drinking water for millions of Americans by extending federal protections to 2 million miles of streams and 20 million acres of wetlands. Sen. Dan Sullivan R Alaska even prompted Wheeler with a question about his nearly two decades working for Bob Murray the influential and bombastic baron who runs the nations largest privately owned coal company. Wheeler used his response to note that the last four years of his time working for Murray were spent advocating for miners pensions. Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse D R.I. brought out some visual aids to question Wheeler further about his relationship with Murray including a poster sized printout of a photo leaked from a March 2017 meeting between Murray and Energy Secretary Rick Perry where the coal executive provided a detailed wish list of policies to the administration. That meeting ended as another photo showed with a hug between Perry and Murray. Wheeler is seen sitting beside Murray in the picture.	True	False	False	True	False
Bottled water firm Crystal Geysers heavily protested plans for a plant in Washington state are all but dashed after company execs accidentally sent an internal email calling the operation dead to the local press. Crystal Geyser bottles natural spring water and sells it to thirsty Americans with nearly one in five consumers drinking its beverages every month. However few are happy to live near the firms bottling plants where they say heavy traffic disturbs their sleep and the companys water collection activities threaten endangered species and destroy the rural character of their areas. Earlier this year Crystal Geyser bought land in Lewis County Washington. The company planned on building a 100000 square foot plant that would extract 400 gallons of water per minute from nearby springs. At present Crystal Geyser needs a county permit to begin operations. However in an email accidentally sent to The Chronicle but intended for a higher up Chief Operating Officer Page Beykpour said that the plan is likely dead because the opposition has successfully convinced officials and the media against us. Locals did come out in force against the plant with concerned citizens flooding council meetings since the plans were announced last month. Facebook groups have sprung up to oppose the plant and the local tribal council voted unanimously against it. Beykpour offered his boss two long shot options to push back against the public outcry. Option one involved hiring a PR firm to manufacture fake grassroots support for the facility and change the conversation. With pro corporate protesters likely to raise some eyebrows he outlined a more radical approach sue locals in the area for past damages to the local water system to bring them to the table. If both options were to fail Beykpour suggested we dump this site and move on. Once the paper got a hold of the email Crystal Geyser went into panic mode. The newspaper claims Beykpour called the Chronicle and pleaded for the email not to be published and admitted that the company is still mulling suing its neighbors. In his email Beykpour had claimed the Chronicle was in bed with the opposition. A lawyer representing Crystal Geyser called the newspaper and threatened legal action for running the story. The Chronicle rubbished the threat quoting a media law expert who stated that the companys email screw up was its own fault and not the newspapers. RT has reached out to Crystal Geyser for comment and is awaiting a response. Crystal Geyser is no stranger to local anger. Residents in Mount Shasta California were furious when the company announced plans to bottle water from a local aquefier in 2014 at a time when the state was threatened by drought and Californians faced mandatory water use restrictions. In 2018 the company was accused of illegally disposing of arsenic tainted wastewater from another of its California plants. According to a 16 count indictment Crystal Geyser discharged the toxic waste into a pond that staff dubbed the arsenic pond and then worked with two waste disposal firms to illegally transport the arsenic to a plant without a license to treat it. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	True	True	False	True	False
WASHINGTON A Trump administration plan to provide older and disabled citizens greater access to national parks by expandingthe use of electric bikes is revving upcriticism from nature advocates who say the policy threatens to disturb pristine trails and poses a safety hazard. The National Park Service NPS announced the change Friday which would allow battery powered e bikes that can reach speeds of 28 miles per hour on the same park roads and trails that permit traditionalbicycles. The motor may not be used to propel an e bike without the rider also pedaling except in locations open to public motor vehicle traffic under the policy. They make bicycle travel easier and more efficient and they provide an option for people who want to ride a bicycle but might not otherwise do so because of physical fitness age disability or convenience especially at high altitudes or in hilly or strenuous terrain saidNational Park ServiceDeputy Director P. Daniel Smith. The change has drawn criticism by park advocates and some trail enthusiasts who say the administration did not do enough to seek public input on a policy that could damagethe park experience for many. E bikes have a place on national parks roads and motorized trails. But this announcement disregards well established policies for how visitors can enjoyably and safely experience the backcountry in national parks said Kristen Brengel senior vice president at the National Parks Conservation Association. For generations weve agreed that there are some places so special that they should be protected for visitors to enjoy away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life. Said Tyler Ray director of policy and advocacy for theAmerican Hiking Society Permitting e bike use on trails that have been thoughtfully and specifically designated as non motorized raises questions of safety and trail sustainability that must be considered. An e bike is classified asa two or three wheeled cycle with fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts 1 h.p. that provides propulsion assistance. Park Service officials notethe policy is modeled after a number of states that already allow expanded use of electric bikes. Mounting backlog Crumbling national parks Congress looks to hike funds for repairs after years of neglect In making the announcement the NPS touted the environmental effects of the new policy saying the e bikes can reduce greenhouse gas emissionswhen used as an alternative to cars and motorcycles and improve poor air quality at national parks by reducing traffic congestion. Park visitors posting in June before the policy was announced on the independent National Parks Traveler web siteexpressed mixed opinions on the expanded use of the electronic bikes. Someworriedthe low humming devices will add congestion noise and safety risks to normally quiet trails while others saidnational park trails should be more accessible to those who have physical handicaps. National monument Medgar Evers home would become national monument under lands bill sent to Trump Having an electric bike I would love the opportunity to enjoy nature trails specific to e bikes wrote Elizabeth Binnings who describes herselfas a disabled person with limited leg strength. Obviously not all trails are smooth enough but it would enhance my enjoyment of life to get out in nature and isn't that the point of National parks. There are plenty of places in most parks for those who are not 'physically able' to enjoy without getting on an e bike Alice Tharp posted on the blog.What's next? Elevators to Angels Landing at Zion National Park in Utah for those who can't hike it a tram ride at Yosemite National Park in California to get to the top of El Capitan?	False	True	False	False	False
Last week week a routine entry in the searchable database at the website of the South Dakota Department of Environment and Natural Resources indicated that the Dakota Access Pipeline saw an 84 gallon crude oil spill in April. The environmental Left rushed to publicize the incident as an I told you so moment but activists gloating reveals either their cynical dishonesty or their ignorance about how modern pipelines work. The spill occurred in an Energy Transfer Partners facility specifically equipped to catch spills. Moreover the precautions in place to prevent environmental damage worked exactly as they should according to the South Dakota Department of Environment and National Resources. As spills go this spill was contained all product was cleaned up quickly and there were no impacts to the environment Kim Smith a spokesperson for the South Dakota department told me. The containment system and notification system worked as they should. Compare that to the hysterical reaction from leftist activists and their media allies. Writing in the Guardian opinionist Julian Brave NoiseCat said that the leak demonstrates the risk of technological and human failure inherent in crude oil pipelines adding that indigenous communities ranchers and workers are forced to live under the constant threat of petroleum poisoning. Jan Hasselman a lawyer for the Standing Rock Sioux told the Huffington Post They keep telling everybody that it is state of the art that leaks wont happen that nothing can go wrong. Its always been false. They havent even turned the thing on and its shown to be false. And a Clean Technica reporter claimed the incident drives home an essential truth about all the systems mankind has devised to transport oil from place to placeaddingThey all leak. Somewhere somehow the vile stuff gets out and when it does it causes untold damage to the environment. Such biased narratives have bedeviled the Dakota Access Pipeline from the beginning. National media readily adopted opponents preferred rhetoric in articles calling demonstrators the water protectors and repeating their claims that the protests were peaceful and prayerful. In actuality the protests were anything but peaceful as we reported at the time. Local authorities struggled to respond as demonstrators resorted to violence and vandalism. Protestors reportedly threw Molotov cocktails and stones at law enforcement also threatening police and their families and posting their home addresses online. Local ranchers said protestors trespassed on their land and damaged their property. By the time the protests ended hundreds had been arrested. These facts received little coverage the media instead portraying a David and Goliath fight in which virtuous protesters took on a corrupt wealthy industry. And while the Left likes to accuse conservatives of being anti science it hasignored any evidence that doesnt support itsanti pipeline agenda. Comprehensive environmental reviews conducted under the Obama administration showed the risk posed by Keystone XL and the Dakota Access Pipeline to be minimal. But some of the same environmentalists who denounced Trump for moving ahead with the pipelines also rushed to participate in the March for Science. Green activists have also spent the last year publicizing scary statistics about oil pipelines. But just as with the recent Dakota Access Pipeline spill the reality is less convenient for their political preferences. Cutting edge technology such as the containment system installed at the pump station in Tulare S.D. means that its safer than ever to transport oil by pipeline. The Fraser Institute a Canadian free market think tank analyzed U.S. State Department data finding that 70 percent of spills that have occurred in North America were a cubic meter or less hardly the massive leakage environmentalists have implied. Moreover the Fraser Institute found that only 17 percent of spills take place along the pipelines route the rest occurring in facilities such as the Tulare pump station which are specially equipped to safely handle spills and avoid environmental contamination. Overall the number of pipeline incidents in which people or the environment were harmed has dropped by more than 50 percent since 1999 even as the United States saw its energy production skyrocket. The outcome of the Dakota Access Pipeline spill was a technological triumph that should reassure its skeptics. The pipelines opponents are trying to spin it into a cautionary tale. In doing so they reveal their own selective adherence to scientific reason. Jillian Kay Melchior is a fellow at the Independent Womens Forum.	False	False	False	True	True
Jessica Fujan chants on the Wacker Drive during a 100 Days of Failure protest and march Saturday April 29 2016 in Chicago. Thousands of people across the U.S. are marking President Donald Trump's hundredth day in office by marching in protest of his environmental policies. AP PhotoNam Y. HuhAP It seems like every week theres a new story about some completely unprecedented unpredictable environmental event. Antarctica is turning green. California is paralyzed by drought. Forests are shifting and the first climate refugees have lost their homes. The climate is changing and quickly. And we arent keeping up with it. This isnt because there is not enough scientific evidence to prove the threatthere is. It isnt because the majority of Americans dont believe climate change is caused by human activitythey do. And it isnt as has been suggested because weve become so immune to data that numbers arent persuasive anymore. We arent keeping up with climate change because the environmental movement is allowing a legacy of implicit bias to constrict its leadership and strategy. By refusing to challenge the long held belief that white environmentalists are the most informed prepared passionate dedicated defenders of our planet and its natural resources the movement silences communities of color. It silences the very people who often feel the greatest impact of a warming planet even though activists of color could make or break success for this work. In our new report Green 2.0 found that the environmental movementfrom boards to executive leadership to staffis still overwhelmingly white. Green 2.0 is an advocacy campaign that monitors and supports diversifying the racial and ethnic demography of mainstream environmental NGOs foundations and federal government agencies. We help hiring managers and executive search firms access the deep pipeline of qualified candidates of color help organizations build an equitable and inclusive culture internally and advocate for data transparency across the sector. For the past three years we have been working to build our database of the diversity of the top 40 NGOs across the movement. In 2014 we reported their staff and leadership demographics to create the first ever snapshot of the sector. It was that baseline that we used in the report we release today the Transparency Card which evaluates what kind of change has been made. We saw some encouraging progress. Overall environmental organizations have committed to improving diversity among their staff and board since we started this work. It is evidenced by the number of diversity committees managers and plans that have sprung up since 2014. Across the movement people of color represent 27 15 24 of staff leadership and board positions respectively in 2017. But theres still much more work to be done. More than 70 of those working in the space are white. Diversity is still seriously lacking at the senior leadership level. Two organizationsOceana and the Pew Charitable Trustsrefused to even participate in the survey. This is problem and not just a theoretical one. From Flint to Standing Rock weve seen that communities of color are disproportionately affected by pollution and climate change. When they dont have a seat at the table how can the movement be ready to systematically tackle issues that affect them uniquely? Without people of color in leadership and policymaking positions their perspectives are less likely to be included in outcomes. And furthermore with the environmental challenges facing us right nowfrom the new energy economy to ocean acidificationwe need all the creativity available to help us find pathways to clean food water and air. Its simple the more diverse the group discussing the problem is the more comprehensive sustainable and creative the solutions are. The time has come for radical thinking for inclusive problem solving for crowd sourced innovation. We have spent decades leaving people of color out of the environmental movement. Its time that we own our mistakes and get real about our shortcomings. Its long overdue that we intentionally count how many people of color are staffing and leading the professional environmental sector. Its urgent that we bring more voices into the conversation. Or we could let implicit bias and systemic racism undercut any chance we have at a sustainable future. The planet isnt going to wait for us to get this right. Its already far outpacing our efforts to respond to the crisis of climate change. Its time we stop letting it. Whitney Tome is the Executive Director of Green 2.0	True	False	False	False	True
Former Vice President Al Gore blasted the decision of President Donald Trump to remove the U.S. from the Paris Climate Agreement on Thursday calling it reckless and indefensible. Gore who has made two documentaries advocating climate change action said in a statement Removing the United States from the Paris Agreement is a reckless and indefensible action. It undermines Americas standing in the world and threatens to damage humanitys ability to solve the climate crisis in time. But make no mistake if President Trump wont lead the American people will. Civic leaders mayors governors CEOs investors and the majority of the business community will take up this challenge Gore said. We are in the middle of a clean energy revolution that no single person or group can stop. President Trumps decision is profoundly in conflict with what the majority of Americans want from our president but no matter what he does we will ensure that our inevitable transition to a clean energy economy continues. PARIS AGREEMENT ON CLIMATE CHANGE WASHINGTON REACTS TO US PULLOUT The Paris accord will undermine our economy Trump said during the announcement in the White House Rose Garden. Participating in the deal the president argued puts us at a permanent disadvantage. Its time to exit he said. The Paris Climate Agreement is a pact among nearly 200 nations made to voluntarily cut greenhouse gas emissions in an effort to combat climate change. Under the terms of the deal the U.S. the worlds second largest emitter of carbon would be required to reduce fossil fuel emissions around 30 percent by 2025. Gore and Trump previously met at Trump Tower in New York City in December. Gore called the conversation he had with Trump at the time extremely interesting.	False	False	False	True	True
North Carolina Democratic Gov. Roy Cooper signed an executive order Monday he says is meant to combat climate change and lessen the impact of future natural disasters like hurricanes. Coopers order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles use more wind and solar energy and cut energy use at state owned buildings. Cooper also asked agencies to promote climate adaptation and green energy use including wind and solar. A strong clean energy economy combats climate change while creating good jobs and a healthy environment said Cooper. With historic storms lashing our state we must combat climate change make our state more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters. The order comes more than one month after Hurricane Florencedumped record amounts of rainfallover the Carolinas after making landfall as a Category 1 storm. Florence dumped 11 trillion gallons of rain over the Carolinas causing devastating floods and taking more than 50 lives. Democrats and environmentalists claimed the storm was made worse by man made global warming. Some scientists said warm waters supercharged Florence and sea level rise made storm surge significantly worse.RELATED Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado However not all scientists agreed. Cato Institute atmospheric scientist Ryan Maue pointed out thatFlorence formed over abnormally cool ocean waters then weakened over cooler waters the opposite of what forecasters expected. There is no reason to suggest that global warming or an ocean heat wave supercharged Hurricane Florence University of Washington climate scientist Cliff Masssaid in September. So the ocean heat wave theory is obviously bogus. The order comes more than one month after Hurricane Florence dumped record amounts of rainfall over the Carolinas after making landfall as a Category 1 storm. Florence dumped 11 trillion gallons of rain over the Carolinas causing devastating floods and taking more than 50 lives. Democrats and environmentalists claimed the storm was made worse by man made global warming. Some scientists said warm waters supercharged Florence and sea level rise made storm surge significantly worse. RELATED Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado However not all scientists agreed. Cato Institute atmospheric scientist Ryan Maue pointed out that Florence formed over abnormally cool ocean waters then weakened over cooler waters the opposite of what forecasters expected. There is no reason to suggest that global warming or an ocean heat wave supercharged Hurricane Florence University of Washington climate scientist Cliff Mass said in September. So the ocean heat wave theory is obviously bogus. Mass also said that most of the major impacts of the storm was because it slowed down near the coast causing an extended period of rain. He added theres no credible theory of observational evidence that such slowing down has anything to do with global warming. While scientists predict continued global warming could make future hurricanes more intensethe latest United Nations climate reportfound that many studies showed adecreasing trend in the global number of tropical cyclones andor the globally accumulated cyclonic energy. Cooper however says his executive order will make North Carolina more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters by putting more electric vehicles on the road and cutting emissions. But even if Coopers plan achieves its goal of cutting state greenhouse gas emissions it would have virtually no impact on projected global warming based on climate model simulations. For example the Obama administrations pledge to cut U.S. emissions 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 was only projected toavert 0.001 degrees Celsius of projected global warminga year. If thats the impact on future temperatures cutting emissions for the entire country would have North Carolinas emissions cuts would have an even less significant impact.	True	True	False	True	True
The global strike set just days before September 23s U.N. Climate Action Summit in New York is expected to draw millions of activists who believe human activity is contributing to climate change and that drastic measures such as limiting meat consumption reforming the transportation sector and banning plastic straws need to be taken in order to combat the looming threat. Videos are surfacing from protests across the globe showing sizable crowds in places like Ireland Germany Australia Uganda and more Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn participated in the climate strikes in London and condemned President Trump for pulling out of the Paris Climate Agreement. No more of this handholding with Donald Trump he told the crowd. We want every country on board on this There are also climate strikes taking place in major cities across the U.S. including Boston San Francisco Seattle D.C. and New York City. Famed teen activist Greta Thunberg who sailed to the U.S. in order to avoid making a massive carbon footprint will participate in the climate strike in New York City where over one million students have been given permission to skip class in order to protest climate change Many Democrat presidential candidates are praising the effort as protests continue to kick off across the nation. There is nothing more powerful than our nations youth marching together demanding action be taken to protect our planet and their future Sen. Kamala Harris D CA wrote. Its time our leaders listened. Climate change is an existential threatand we are already facing the effects. The youth led and the solidarity strikes from groups like show that our country is ready to fight for the big structural change well need to tackle the climate crisis Sen. Elizabeth Warren D MA tweeted Young people have already demonstrated they can take on powerful fossil fuel companies and force politicians to answer their call to action Sen. Bernie Sanders I VT wrote. To the millions of young people and allies worldwide who are striking today to demand climate justice I stand with you. he added Our planet is in crisisbut we arent powerless to combat it Sen. Cory Booker D NJ declared. Inspired by the young people leading on todays and committed to standing alongside them in the battle against climate change The global strike follows Thunbergs appearance before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and Select Committee on the Climate Crisis. She submitted the United Nations IPCC Special Report on Global Warming as her written testimony writing I am submitting this report as my testimony because I dont want you to listen to me I want you to listen to the scientists. And I want you to unite behind the science.	True	False	False	True	True
A coal fired power plant in central Poland. Global greenhouse gas emissions rose in 2018 and the world is on track for potentially catastrophic climate change in the coming decades. Czarek SokolowskiAP hide caption toggle caption Czarek SokolowskiAP A coal fired power plant in central Poland. Global greenhouse gas emissions rose in 2018 and the world is on track for potentially catastrophic climate change in the coming decades. Czarek SokolowskiAP Leaders from nearly 200 countries are attending a special United Nations Summit on climate change today as they face increasing pressure from citizens around the world to cut global greenhouse gas emissions and slow global warming. Currently global emissions are on track to cause potentially catastrophic climate change in the coming decades. The summit acts as a kickoff to international climate negotiations in 2020 which is the next deadline for countries to make dramatic emissions reduction promises under the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change. I am appealing for leadership from politicians from businesses and scientists and from the public everywhere U.N. Secretary General Antnio Guterres said when he announced the summit. We face a direct existential threat. Climate change is moving faster than we are. Indeed average temperatures on Earth continue to rise driving sea level rise more frequent and severe storms longer heat waves and cold snaps and more extreme rainstorms and droughts. Economic costs associated with such disasters are mounting. Although nearly every nation on the planet including the United States promised to reduce their net greenhouse gas emissions when they signed the Paris Agreement way20170601531048986 so what exactly is in the paris climate accord climate scientists warn that the cumulative pledges are nowhere near sufficient. Humans must limit global warming to about 1.5 degrees Celsius forecast from u n on global climate change above preindustrial temperatures in order to avoid the most catastrophic impacts of climate change. But right now if you take up all the pledges that governments have put forward for the Paris Agreement we're looking at about 3.5 degrees Celsius of warming by 2100 explains Angel Hsu nus.edu.sgaboutfacultyangel hsu an assistant professor of environmental studies at Yale NUS College in Singapore. We're way off Hsu says. What's really worrisome is that we need global emissions to peak by next year by 2020. That's really soon. China and the U.S. are the top greenhouse gas emitters in the world and their cooperation was the crucial foundation for the Paris Agreement. Delegations from both countries will attend today's U.N. summit but their positions have diverged. In the U.S. President Trump has threatened to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and his administration has moved to allow greater emissions from power plants vehicles and oil and gas operations. Despite local climate pledges by dozens of states and hundreds of cities the United States right now is not on track to meet its climate change commitments under the Paris Agreement says Kelly Levin levin a climate analyst at the World Resources Institute think tank. China on the other hand is on track to meet its commitments which hinged on reaching peak emissions no later than 2030. There have been some indications that they could peak their emissions by 2022 Hsu says. That's not so far away. That's about eight years ahead of schedule. And China is now a world leader chinas vision for climate action a new york times and conduit club london event in renewable energy including solar wind and hydropower. It's a glimmer of hope in a sea of otherwise dire news. Even as the government invests in clean technology China is building new coal fired power plants is china placing a global bet on coal outside its borders as part of its Belt and Road Initiative massive belt and road initiative. And even if the country's emissions start declining in the coming years it will likely be too slow to keep global temperatures in check. Nonetheless China is expected to be one of the countries to announce their intention to set more drastic emissions targets at today's summit. India is also expected to announce a plan to update its emissions promises. And some world leaders including the delegation from France are expected to announce that they intend to make drastic emissions cuts in the coming decade. 	True	False	False	True	True
Climate change can't be halted if we carry on degrading the soil a report will say. There's three times more carbon in the soil than in the atmosphere but that carbon's being released by deforestation and poor farming. This is fuelling climate change and compromising our attempts to feed a growing world population the authors will say. Problems include soils being eroded compacted by machinery built over or harmed by over watering. Hurting the soil affects the climate in two ways it compromises the growth of plants taking in carbon from the atmosphere and it releases soil carbon previously stored by worms taking leaf matter underground. The warning will come from the awkwardly named IPBES the Intergovernmental Science Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services a panel studying the benefits of nature to humans. The body which is meeting this week aims to get all the worlds governments singing from the same sheet about the need to protect natural systems. IPBES will formally release its report on Monday 6 May. About 3.2 billion people worldwide are suffering from degraded soils said IPBES chairman Prof Sir Bob Watson. That's almost half of the world population. Theres no question we are degrading soils all over the world. We are losing from the soil the organic carbon and this undermines agricultural productivity and contributes to climate change. We absolutely have to restore the degraded soil weve got. Governments have focused on climate change far more than they have focused on loss of biodiversity or land degradation. All three are equally important to human wellbeing. Soil expert Prof Jane Rickson from Cranfield University UK added The thin layer of soil covering the Earth's surface represents the difference between survival and extinction for most terrestrial life. Only 3 of the planet's surface is suitable for arable production and 75 billion tonnes of fertile soil is lost to land degradation every year. She said soils form at a rate of 1cm in 300 years. There's uncertainty about the exact level of global soil degradation. But the major hotspots are reported to be in South America where forests are being felled sub Saharan Africa India and China. Soil scientists in both the biggest Asian nations are worried that their ability to grow their own food may be compromised. In the US some soils are being restored as forests take over poor quality land previously worked by small farmers but others are still being degraded. The UK is not immune either. Some maize fields in south west England suffer major soil loss with heavy rainfall because growing maize leaves bare soil exposed. Heavy rain is more likely under climate change. Erosion is also a long standing issue in the fertile Fens where on dry windy days peaty soil particles sometimes form a kind of smog called the Fen Blow. Peat has a high carbon content and a recent paper suggests theres far more carbon being lost from peatlands than previously thought. And on the chalky hills of southern England chemical intensive crop farming is said to have caused the loss of over a foot of soil in some places. Soils are incredibly important for our well being said Dr Joanna Clark from Reading University. We all know that crops are grown in soil but soils are important for climate change as well. There's three times more carbon stored in soil than there is in the atmosphere. So imagine if all that carbon was released wed get runaway climate change. So we need to keep the carbon in the soil. The simplest way to protect soils while combating climate change is to let forests grow back. This option is favoured by fans of re wilding. But some farmers believe they can continue to produce food by changing the way they farm to enhance the soil. Brexit could give the UK greater flexibility on how to spend public money on farming enabling much more leeway to reward farmers for capturing carbon in the earth. But there are more than 700 soil types in the UK alone so it wont be simple.	True	False	False	True	True
Your lovely island of Madagascar is rich in plant and animal biodiversity yet this treasure is especially threatened by excessive deforestation from which some profit Pope Francistold authorities and diplomats on Saturday. The deterioration of that biodiversity compromises the future of the country and of the earth our common home he warned. The pope went on to enumerate his vision of the problem while also recognizing that many poor people derive their livelihood from activities that threaten the environment. As you know the last forests are menaced by forest fires poaching the unrestricted cutting down of valuable woodlands he said. Plant and animal biodiversity is endangered by contraband and illegal exportation. It is also true however that for the peoples concerned a number of activities harmful to the environment at present ensure their survival. So it is important to create jobs and activities that generate income while protecting the environment and helping people to emerge from poverty he declared. The pontiff tied together social and ecological problems insisting that the two are intimately intertwined. We are faced not with two separate crises one environmental and the other social but rather with one complex crisis which is both social and environmental he said. In a word there can be no true ecological approach or effective efforts to safeguard the environment without the attainment of a social justice capable of respecting the right to the common destination of earths goods not only of present generations but also of those yet to come he said. Pope Francis has made the care of the environment a central theme of his six year pontificate returning again and again to issues of ecological responsibility the dangers of carbon emissions and the scourge of climate change. In 2015 he became the first pope in history to devote an entire encyclicalletterto the topic of the environment with the publication ofLaudato SiPraised Be urging Christians to become more ecologically aware. In that text the pontiff said that the earth is beginning to look more and more like an immense pile of filth as once beautiful landscapes are now covered with rubbish. He also denounced a failure to recycle paper and other resources while calling climate change a global problem with grave implications and one of the principal challenges facing humanity in our day. Citing scientific studies the pontiff said that most global warming in recent decades is due to the great concentration of greenhouse gases carbon dioxide methane nitrogen oxides and others released mainly as a result of human activity.	True	False	False	True	False
Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezrecently suggested Miami would disappear ina few years due to climate change. The United Nations is convening a Climate Action Summit next week. And climate activist Greta Thunberg is on Capitol Hill this week telling lawmakers they must actsoon. But while data from NASA and other top research agencies confirms global temperatures are indeed rising a newly compiled retrospective indicates the doomsday rhetoric is perhaps more overheated. NYC SAYS 1.1M STUDENTS CAN ATTEND CLIMATE STRIKE PROTEST WITHOUT PUNISHMENT The conservative leaning Competitive Enterprise Institute has put together a lengthy compilation of apocalyptic predictions dating back decades that did not come to passtimed as Democratic presidential candidates and climate activistsrefocus attention on the issue. The dire predictions often repeated inthe media warned of a variety of impending disasters famine drought an ice age and even disappearing nations if the world failed to act on climate change. An Associated Press headline from 1989 read Rising seas could obliterate nations U.N. officials. The article detailed aU.N. environmental official warning that entire nations would be eliminated if the world failed to reverse warming by 2000. Then there were the fears that the world would experience a never ending cooling trend in the Northern Hemisphere. That claim came from an international team of specialists cited by The New York Times in 1978. Just years prior Time magazine echoed other media outlets in suggesting that another ice age was imminent. Telltale signs are everywhere from the unexpected persistence and thickness of pack ice in the waters around Iceland to the southward migration of a warmth loving creature like the armadillo from the Midwest the magazine warned in 1974. The Guardian similarly warned in 1974 that Space satellites show new Ice Age coming fast. In 1970 The Boston Globe ran the headline Scientist predicts a new ice age by 21st century. The Washington Post for its part published a Columbia University scientist's claim that the world could be as little as 50 or 60 years away from a disastrous new ice age. Some of the more dire predictions came from Paul Ehrlich a biologist who famously urged population control to mitigate the impacts of humans on the environment. Ehrlich in 1969warned that everybody would disappear in a cloud of blue steam in 20 years The New York Times reported. According to The Salt Lake Tribune Ehrlich warning of a disastrous famine urged placing sterilizing agents into staple foods and drinking water. ANDY PUZDER HERE'S WHY DEMS WANT TO GENERATE CLIMATE PANIC AS THEY IGNORE WAYS TO REDUCE CARBON EMISSIONS Those predictions were made around the time former President Richard Nixon created the Environmental Protection Agency. Since then the U.S. has adopted a series of environmental reforms aimedat limiting emissions. Years after those initial predictions media outlets and politicians continue to teem with claims of apocalyptic scenarios resulting from climate change. Earlier this month leading Democratic presidential candidates held a town hall on the issue and warned about the existential threat posed by a changing climate. Before the end of the month 2020 candidates are expected to have another climate forum at Georgetown University. CEI's report came just before the U.N. Climate Action Summit on Sept. 23an event that promises to spark the transformation that is urgently needed and propel action that will benefit everyone. It also came a week after Rep.Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. warned that Miami would be gone in a few years because of climate change. She was responding to critics of her ambitious Green New Deal which seeks to reach net zero emissions within just decades. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Ocasio Cortez whose plan has been endorsed by leading presidential candidates previously joked that the world would end in 12 years if it didn't address climate change. But short term predictions weren't a laughing matter in the years following An Inconvenient Truth a documentary produced by former Vice President Al Gore. In 2008 ABC released an ominous video about what the world would look like in 2015. As the video warned about rising sea levels a graphic showed significant portions of New York City engulfed by water.Gore himself famously predicted in the early 2000s that Arctic ice could be gone within seven years. At the end of seven years Arctic ice had undergone a period ofexpansion though recently it has been melting at a quicker pace.	True	False	False	True	True
The Duke of Sussex has defended his use of private jets saying he occasionally needs to ensure his family is safe. Speaking at the launch of an eco tourism project in Amsterdam Prince Harry added that he balances out the impact this has on the environment. The duke and his wife Meghan have faced criticism after newspapers claimed they flew privately four times in 11 days this summer. Prince Harry said he flew to the event on Tuesday commercially. At the launch of Travalyst aimed at encouraging the tourism industry to become more sustainable the duke was asked about his travel behaviour. I came here by commercial. I spend 99 of my life travelling the world by commercial he said. Occasionally there needs to be an opportunity based on a unique circumstance to ensure that my family are safe it's generally as simple as that. During his opening speech the duke said no one is perfect in terms of his impact on the environment. Questions have been asked about the royal couple's use of private jets and their impact following their support of environmental causes. Prince Harry has previously spoken about the importance of tackling climate change. In September's edition of Vogue edited by Meghan the prince spoke about environmental issues and his love for nature saying We are the one species on this planet that seems to think that this place belongs to us and only us. The Sussexes came under fire over the summer after taking a private flight to the home of singer Sir Elton John in Nice. Sir Elton defended the royal couple saying he provided them with his private plane to maintain a high level of much needed protection. He also said he paid to carbon offset their trip to his French home. Carbon offsetting allows passengers to pay extra to help compensate for the carbon emissions produced from their flights. The money is then invested in environmental projects such as planting trees or installing solar panels which reduce carbon dioxide in the air by the same amount. The duke said that what is important is what we do to balance out negative effects. He went on to say that he has always offset his carbon emissions and will continue to do so. In my mind it's the right thing to do and we need to make it cool he said. We have to connect people to where that little bit of extra money is actually going. Prince Harry has spent three years working on the project alongside five co founders Booking.com Ctrip Skyscanner TripAdvisor and Visa. He hopes it will improve conservation environmental protection and help increase the economic benefits of tourism for local communities. Figures from accounts published in June show the royal household's carbon emissions due to business travel almost doubled last year. The increase was put down to the use of chartered flights for more overseas visits which are planned by the Foreign Office. However emissions savings from greener heating and lighting meant the household's overall carbon footprint stayed around the same as the previous year.	True	False	False	True	False
The US arm of a European multinational oil and gas company has been approved to begin exploratory drilling in Alaskas Beaufort Sea. Environmentalists argue the Trump administration doesn't have the authority for such a move and it would endanger land and marine life. The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management BOEM gave conditional approval late Wednesday to Eni US the US subsidiary of the Italian company Eni S.p.A. to drill four exploration wells from Spy Island an artificial island created in the Beaufort Sea in Alaska. Drilling can only be conducted in the winter months and is scheduled to begin in December 2017 and end in May 2019 BOEM said. The permit is for preparatory work and does not authorize Eni to produce oil. Over the past 30 days BOEM has been carefully evaluating the EP exploration plan in accordance with federal law and regulationsincluding site specific Environmental Assessmentand conclude with a Finding of No Significant Impact BEOM said in a statement. The Obama administration banned oil and gas exploration in most of the USs Arctic Ocean and Atlantic Ocean waters last year but President Donald Trump ordered Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke in April to review the ban with the goal of opening up offshore areas for oil and gas drilling. Enis lease was due to expire at the end of 2017 according to Kristen Monsell an attorney for the Center for Biological Diversity. The Trump administration provided the public only 21 days to review and comment on the exploration plan and only 10 days to comment on scoping for environmental assessment according to Monsell. Approving this Arctic drilling plan at the 11th hour makes a dangerous project even riskier Monsell told the Guardian. An oil spill here would do incredible damage and itd be impossible to clean up. The Center for Biological Diversity Greenpeace and REDOIL a coalition of Alaska native groups sued the Trump administration on May 3 citing the risk of offshore oil and gas exploration development to local communities and wildlife. The lawsuit also argued that Trumps reversal of the ban exceeded his constitutional authority and was thus unlawful. In the lawsuit the groups argued the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas are still undeveloped and are home to a rich array of unique wildlife species including polar bears walruses whales seals other mammals birds and fish some of which are classified as threatened or endangered. Some of these animals also support thriving indigenous Alaska Native cultural and subsistence activities stated the complaint. Several Arctic mammals including polar bears and bearded seals have been listed under the ESA Endangered Species Act. The region serves as important nurseries feeding grounds and transit routes for marine animals. Seismic surveys and drilling activities could cause disruption and threaten wildlife directly. The area is remote and foreboding the complaint said. In winter the seas are covered in ice and shrouded in darkness it is prone to storms and fog and there is little infrastructure to support industrial activity with just small communities and few jet runways. The region is hundreds of miles from the nearest Coast Guard station. Mentioned in the complaint is Shell Oils exploratory adventures in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in 2012 which led to a series of problems mistakes and violations of environmental laws. During testing in the placid waters of Puget Sound Shell destroyed its oil spill containment drone. On the way north its drillship the Noble Discoverer dragged its anchor and nearly ran aground while moored near an Alaskan island. Once at the drill site in the Chukchi Sea Shell had to undertake an emergency maneuver to relocate the drillship to avoid a large ice floe. On its way back from the Beaufort Sea it lost control of its drilling vessel the Kulluk which ran aground in the Gulf of Alaska in severe weather and had to be towed to Seattle Washington and then scrapped. The US Coast Guard cited the Noble Discoverer for numerous deficiencies after the drilling season and the EPA determined Shell had violated the Clean Air Act during its drilling efforts and fined the company 1.1 million. Its drilling contractor pleaded guilty to eight felony offenses relating to environmental pollution and safety and agreed to pay 12.2 million in fines.	True	False	False	True	False
Nearly four years later the White House is promoting the same brand of denialism and fealty to the fossil fuel industry at the United Nations climate conference in Poland. But in Washington the snowball metaphor might more accurately describe how a markedly different brand of climate politics is gaining support. By Wednesday the burgeoning effort to establish a select committee in the House of Representatives on a Green New Deal essentially a plan to make a plan picked up its strongest endorsements yet netting support from the co chairs of the 78 member Congressional Progressive Caucus and from the first labor union to back the proposal. At least 35 incoming or sitting House members support the resolution as do four senators. The proposal championed by Rep. elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. came as grassroots groups like the Sunrise Movement and Justice Democrats organized protests at the Capitol with young activists occupying Democratic leaders offices and urging lawmakers to pledge their support. Nearly 150 people were arrested Monday in the groups largest demonstration yet. The resolution faced skepticism from the top Democrats on natural resources and energy committees that wield legislative power over the issues a Green New Deal would cover. But proponents tweaked language in the proposal this week to mandate the select committee to lay out a vision for a Green New Deal while maintaining existing committees authority over the lawmaking process. I wouldnt even call it compromises. It was more specificities Pocan said. It was really getting at making it specific and workable. We wanted to make it so it could be an executable idea. The resolution calls for barring lawmakers who have accepted donations from the fossil fuel industry from serving on the select committee. Maintaining legislative power for existing committees with members who might have taken contributions from oil gas and coal donors could pose some risk but would be worth it said Rep.Pramila Jayapal D Wash. the other Progressive Caucus co chair. The harm thats done in taking legislative authority away from the committees is far too great she said. Everyone is ready. There are a lot of champions in the rooms that we need them to be in who will be controlling the agenda. The unusually speedy sausagemaking process inverts decades of Democrats dithering on the rapidly worsening crisis caused by greenhouse gas pollution. That mirrors the Trump administrations aggressive efforts to unwind the few relatively weak climate regulations that exist and to upend fragile negotiations at the 24th Conference of the Parties in Katowice Poland where diplomats this week are struggling to garner support for basic resolutions recognizing the scientific consensus on global warming. The summit follows an October report from the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that found that world governments must halve emissions over the next 12 years to avert warming of 2.3 degrees Fahrenheit above preindustrial levels beyond which climate change is forecast to be cataclysmic. The Trump administration announced plans to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris Climate Accord but that wont legally go into effect until 2020. In the meantime the administration has worked hard to further undercut the talks. The United States teamed up with Russia Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to weaken a resolution to endorse the report something the State Department outright refused to do. The Democratic Party needs an answer for what their plan is to match the U.N.s recommendations in the IPCC report on climate said Waleed Shahid the communications director for Justice Democrats a left wing group that played a leading role in Ocasio Cortezs winning primary campaign. Young people and Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma. Thats not the only issue for which the Green New Deal would provide a fix. The Democratic Party has long been dogged by tensions between environmentalists clamoring for action on climate change and labor leaders warning against policies that ostracize the fossil fuel industry which provides high paid construction jobs. In August the Democratic National Committee under pressure from unions backtracked on a two month old resolution to ban donations from oil gas and coal companies.	True	False	False	True	False
Alexandria Ocasio Cortez isn't old enough to run for president. But the freshman congresswoman from New York introduced a Green New Deal resolution on Thursday that is already emerging as a key policy test for 2020 Democratic candidates. Our first step is to define the problem and define the scope of the solution Ocasio Cortez told reporters during a Thursday afternoon press conference for her newly introduced proposal which was quickly backed by Democratic presidential hopefuls Senators Kirsten Gillibrand Kamala Harris Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker. Small incremental policy solutions are not enough. Several contenders vying for the Democatic nomination have expressed support for the underlying principles of the sweeping resolution to combat climate change and activist groups energized by the November midterm election wins have been pressuring candidates to sign on as co sponsors. We are going to be pressuring all the 2020 contenders especially the senators to co sponsor the bill Stephen O'Hanlon a spokesperson for the Sunrise Movement a climate change group that staged a high profile sit in in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office in November which Ocasio Cortez attended told CBS News. It will make clear who is just using it as a buzzword and who is taking it seriously. Progressive activists are extremely supportive of the Green New Deal and think of it as the gold standard plan on climate and expect their presidential candidates to be treating it as such said Chad Bolt associate policy director of Indivisible a grassroots resistance group. Bolt says the environment ranks among the top three issues for its members. The resolution introduced by Ocasio Cortez and Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey a Democrat is broad and light on specifics and seen more as a roadmap for overhauling the economy than a concrete piece of legislation. The resolution includes plans to decarbonize the economy reduce greenhouse gases make sure low income and minority communities benefit create a federal jobs guarantee provide universal health care and make investments in infrastructure. The Green New Deal proposal is named after President Franklin Roosevelt's sweeping New Deal economic and labor reforms during the Great Depression. It's aimed a transforming the American economy by ending its dependence on fossil fuels investing heavily in renewable energy like solar and wind and sparking large scale job creation. Some proposals have set the goal to converting the entire U.S. economy to renewable energy within 12 years and eliminating the carbon footprint by 2030. The lack of specifics could present opportunities and liabilities for presidential candidates. On one hand it becomes a kind of catch all way to talk about the environment jobs and economic fairness issues at the forefront of the party's primary. But on the other it could put candidates in a difficult position when pressed on the costs and impact on certain jobs and industries. The debate over Medicare for All has already shown the kinds of risks and rewards candidates face. Republicans have branded the proposal as a costly fringe policy goal and many centrist Democrats have not backed the initiative. Pelosi referred to it Thursday morning as a suggestion and the green dream. It will be one of several or maybe many suggestions that we receive Pelosi told Politico in an interview. The green dream or whatever they call it nobody knows what it is but they're for it right? Later in the morning Pelosi said she had not seen the proposal. I do know its enthusiastic and I welcome all the enthusiasm that is out there she told reporters during her weekly press conference. Pelosi also named the nine Democratic members of the new Select Committee on the Climate Crisis and notably left Ocasio Cortez off the list. The New York Democrat said Pelosi offered her a spot but she declined it because she wanted to focus on the legislative side of climate policy. Despite some hesitation within the party the Democratic base sees the proposal as a way for its leaders to capitalize on their new power in Washington. In a statement to CBS News on Tuesday Congressman Ral Grijalva Democrat of Arizona confirmed that he will be supporting the resolution after initially being reluctant to back it. The Green New Deal will put the health and well being of our communities first Grijalva said. Its aspirational goals will help our country combat climate change through clean and renewable energy create millions of new jobs in the process and safeguard our environment for generations to come. Most of the Democratic presidential candidates have also broadly endorsed the idea behind the Green New Deal. Oregon Democratic Sen. Jeff Merkley who's mulling a presidential bid said the issue should be an integral part of his party's agenda going forward. On CBSN's Red and Blue Merkley outlined what he believes should be the key components of a comprehensive Green New Deal. The core objectives are some things such as let's drive a fast transition from fossil fuel carbon transmission creating energy sources to renewable energy so that we save our planet. Second principle is let's create tens of millions of jobs as we renovate our energy economy he said Tuesday. A third principle a just transition for fossil fuel workers so that no one is left behind and so we show respect and gratitude for all the work they've done to power economy is the decades past.	True	False	False	True	True
Chennai is out of water all 4 reservoirs are dry. More than 8.5 million live in greater Chennai so its about the population of greater San Francisco. An India government think tank predicts that by 2030 600 million Indians wont have sufficient drinking water. Its kind of amazing that they didnt see this coming long ago and plan better. And even 2030 wouldnt help right now which is what is needed. Rain is the solution but thats not exactly a sure thing when you are in the middle of a historic drought. Little that can be done right now except to keep on hauling water in from wherever they can. Many more will follow in part because people consider water to be a gift from God. People of India consume lots of water. If the price of water was higher they would consume less and there would be money available to search for new sources of water. The problem is when people think a resource is free and so plentiful that it can never run out that you get situations where it does run out. Clean water has a value. People should be paying what it costs to create and conserve or store fresh water. Regarding the price of water. Pricing will now have to include the risk of drought. The risk of drought is going up rapidly all over the world. I expect that India will need to invest in sea water desalination. That isnt cheap but whatever it costs those costs have to be passed on to the consumers. The rain and drought situation in India is grim. Most of the Indian cities towns and villages are reeling under severe water crisis. A tragedy is unfolding in Maharashtra and a money spinning racket for Tanker owners. Drought in more than forth of Maharashtra. Crores of rupees of the tax payers money will be used for tankers that will cause incredible pollution in the rural areas.Creation of many lakes all over the country to catch and store rain water is a primary objective. Water balancing between various rivers the so called River Linking Project is the second alternative. Once water is available in every village the distribution to houses can be taken up as the third step. Traditional systems perhaps might have to be tweeked a little according to the needs and changing times but there is so much to learn from those who came before us. Village Talab system is one example. When pond of one village was overflowed water was released for next village on slopes. Rainwater was harvested at home. In Junagadh Ahmedabad Cambay cities. I am not sure whether anyone in Tamil Nadu even knows it had a traditional water harvesting system. Similarly Odishas traditional Kutta and Munda water harvesting system by an NGO some decades back but I doubt if any university in Odisha is working on it or the State government is trying to revive the dying wisdom. This is true for all other states barring Karnataka which is trying to bring back the Kalyani water harvesting structures. Reviving traditional water bodies and harvesting systems has been talked for quite sometime but no one seems interested. The largest desalination plant in South Asia is at Chennai one of two there. It produces 36.5 million cubic metersyear. Thats 9.6 billion US gallons. Israel gets the majority of its drinking water from desalination. It has the worlds largest plant at Hadera producing 127 cubic meters from salt water plus it looks like it has larger plants as well. That 33.5 billion gallons. Chennai has a large desalination plant and a smaller one. Their policies are insufficient in many ways. Like what is water used for etc. Regulations on ground water pumping etc. I dont know specifics but do know that if a city this size runs out of water several people didnt do their jobs. Areas that are dry are becoming drier and those that are wet are getting more rain. But some of them have drier soil due to increased temperatures. The entire region from Syria to Iran has been suffering a drought that has been going on for about 15 years. At some point somebody has to call a spade a spade and accept the fact that the drought is the new normal. Seeding clouds can only bring as much rain as there is water in the atmosphere. Global climate change is in turn changing the distribution of where water is accumulating. At the least we must improve our water distribution systems to mitigate the problem. Seeding is only a short term solution. Build nuclear and desalinate Although there is no way nuclear can be added fast enough to by itself desalinate drinking water for 600 million by 2030. And India hasnt signed the nuclear non proliferation treaty. What are the chances India uses geoengineering? The public no tests no international treaties that will stop it. Geoengineering is cheap and not rocket science. A recent study indicates that almost nowhere will suffer under geoengineering. More studies are needed. The most likely is distributing air pollution in the stratosphere.I doubt that India will concern itself with niceties of international cooperation. Or whichever country leads the way. Thats why there has been a campaign for more than a decade test and make treaties. But we were busy.	False	True	False	True	False
This weekend close to 200 million Americans will face temperatures of 90F 32C and higher. Add in humidity and many cities across the East Coast and Midwest will be feeling more like 110F 43C. Heat waves have killed more people on average than any other extreme weather event in the US according to the Centers for Disease Control CDC. Officials define extreme heat as a period of two to three days of high heat and humidity with temperatures above 90F 32C. On the heels of earth's hottest June on record the US National Weather Service NWS estimates over 100 record high minimum temperatures could be set as the heat lingers even past sunset. Here's what that sort of heat can do. Air conditioning is used in 87 of US homes according to a 2018 report by the US Energy Information Administration EIA. During heat waves air conditioning use stresses power grids and can lead to city wide outages. In cities that means millions of units including those on cars and buses and trains constantly pushing out heat into the atmosphere. Studies have found the extra heat from air conditioning can raise temperatures by as much as 2C. And when it gets hotter our thermostats turn lower and the cycle continues. But it goes further than just an ever hotter summer season the emissions from air conditioners and their refrigerants is contributing to climate change. The man made greenhouse gases used in air conditoners called hydrofluorocarbons HFCs are thousands of times more potent than carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. In cities the cycle is also exacerbated by all the concrete asphalt steel and glass creating an urban heat island. When temperatures get too high planes get grounded. Extreme heat reduces air density and the amount of lift a plane can get to take off. Temperatures of 120F 49C saw dozens of flights cancelled in Phoenix during a 2017 heatwave. Smaller planes are affected first but larger Boeing or Airbus jets have maximum operating temperatures around 126F 52C AZ Central reported. In a heat wave concrete and asphalt don't fare well. Asphalt warps and melts. Concrete if water is involved can sometimes explode or break open. This week local media in Kansas has reported several instances of cracked and buckled roads as temperatures rise. In Iowa one city mayor said old concrete roads soaked with floodwaters from this spring are now exploding and damaging sewer lines. The NWS outpost in Omaha Nebraska demonstrated just how hot vehicles can get in heat waves by cooking American biscuits on a dash. The temperatures reached a high of 185F 85C not quite enough for a proper bake but certainly too hot for humans or animals to survive in. According to the National Weather Service 21 young children have died in hot cars this year. Unsurprisingly as everything warms up in a heat wave anything metal gets even hotter. When it comes to power lines this can cause dangerously low sagging. If lines droop low enough to touch the ground or trees they can short out. Kinks can form on train rails when the metal expands. In 2012 a heat kink caused a 32 car long freight train to derail and fly off an overpass a similar derailment happened in 2017. Experts told Fox 26 News more than 2100 trains have been derailed in the last 40 years because of these heat warps. Metal components in draw bridges can expand and become inoperable last year Chicago firefighters had to hose down a downtown draw bridge so it could be used. Crops can also feel the heat. Farmers across the Midwest are warning that vegetables can wilt in the heat and farms will lose productivity worsening the situation after a historic flooding season this spring. Soybean farmers also say the dry conditions could cause an increase in spider mites and other plant diseases. Extreme heat makes pollution worse which can be dangerous for the very young the elderly and anyone with respiratory diseases. In the nation's capital where the mayor has declared a heat emergency officials warned that air quality would reach unhealthy levels for these sensitive groups over the weekend.	False	False	False	True	True
Watch CNN's live town hall on the climate crisis featuring 10 Democratic presidential candidates tonight beginning at 5 p.m. ET. CNN Candidates for the Democratic presidential nomination and most scientists say the climate crisis is the existential threat of our time while President Donald Trump once claimed it's a hoax cooked up by the Chinese. Trump also said at last month's G7 meeting that I'm an environmentalist citing his experience filing environmental impact statements as a businessperson though he skipped an actual session about climate change that his fellow world leaders attended. That pretty much sums up the difference between how a Democrat would treat climate change compared with Trump as an emergency as opposed to as a joke. That in itself would be an enormous switch. This is a worldwide issue and solving it will take cooperation from countries like China and India. In addition the most important actions the US could take would require congressional approval no easy task when the Senate floor is controlled by a Republican who represents coal country. But presidents actually have quite a bit of power to change US climate policy on their own without waiting for Congress. A first set of steps would be to roll back numerous Trump actions that either sidelined US leadership on the climate or rescinded new standards that had been implemented during the Obama administration. CNN gathered input from advocacy groups former government officials and academics. Here are some things any president could do on Day One in office climate agreement was Promising to withdraw the US from the landmark 2015climate agreement was Trump's benchmark action rebutting the responsibility to act on climate change . He said without much evidence that it was a demeaning failure for American workers who would be expected to do more than those in other countries. The result is the US is one of just a few countries not taking part in the effort in which nations committed to varying amounts of carbon reduction. Every candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination has said they would bring the US back in. The US was supposed to reduce carbon emissions by 26 from 2005 levels by 2025 under the agreement. It probably won't get there with the willful sabotage of the Trump administration. But with certain states cities and companies trying to fill the void the US could get most of the way there according to groups like America's Pledge the coalition pushed by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and former California Gov. Jerry Brown. Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont was the first presidential candidate to argue that Trump instead of declaring a national emergency at the border should do it on the climate instead. Others like Tom Steyer have followed suit. This would certainly focus national attention and could free up some funds without congressional approval. The President could easily declare a goal of 100 decarbonization by a given year say 2050 and direct his or her Cabinet secretaries to do everything in their power to meet it. At the request of automakers the Trump administration worked to roll back fuel economy standards for cars and trucks. A different President could push things again in the other direction. 5. Set a zero emission deadline for the US The Clean Power Plan was an Obama era regulatory scheme that required states to meet specific carbon emission reduction standards based on their individual energy consumption. The plan includes an incentive program for states to get a head start on meeting standards on early deployment of renewable energy and low income energy efficiency. 8. Reverse Trump's plan to speed up oil and gas pipelines Workers in the Bureau of Land Management worked through the partial government shutdown early this year to approve more and more applications for oil and natural gas drilling on public lands. A new administration could move in the opposite direction. 13. Use the SEC to scrutinize banks and investors for climate risks Most attention for climate change goes to the energy sector but banks and investors have an important role too. The Securities and Exchange Commission asks companies what risks climate change and new climate change regulations pose to their investments. 14. Tap into growing public sentiment and work with corporations States and cities are addressing climate change be it with zero emission vehicle goals or the regional cooperative of states in the Northeast that is trying to cap and reduce carbon emissions on its own. Corporate America is also moving on its own. It's setting up coalitions of companies and lobbying Congress for new action on climate change. As it stands right now the federal government is not even a part of that conversation. Pretty much everyone who agrees that climate change is a problem agrees that Congress will ultimately have to address it in a big way. That means placing some kind of price on carbon. The House voted to do this in 2010 but the so called cap and trade proposal didn't get a vote in the Senate and then Democrats lost control of the House for eight years.	True	False	False	True	True
The Magic School Bus is back in the new Netflix series The Magic School Bus Rides Again! Overall it's still a nice fun 13 episode series like we remember from when we were kids but with some left turns. There is a pretty predictable take on climate change propaganda for little kids but that wasn't the worst. That dubious honor goes to the episode that teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources. In the show Miss Frizzle takes her class on educational field trips with the help of a magical school bus that allow them to learn about things like magnets allergies and states of matter. In the original series the kids were taught by Miss Valerie Felicity Frizzle Lily Tomlin who is now Professor Frizzle. She hands the charge of her classroom over to her sister Miss Fiona Frizzle voiced by Saturday Night Live's Kate McKinnon. Most of the episodes are innocuous enough. The kids have a scientific question of some kind in the classroom and Miss Frizzle takes them to the Magic School Bus where an incredible field trip helps them to understand. This might be a trip to discover how different animals blend into their surroundings to hide from predators how the brain coordinates different parts of the body or what lies deep under the sea. But episode 10 The Tales Glaciers Tell is the first of two questionable episodes. Miss Frizzle's student Dorothy Ann also known as D.A. has been asked to join her storyteller parents in telling a story of her own for a crowd. However she's more into data than storytelling so the kids take a trip to a glacier allowing her to tell the story of you guessed it climate change which is met with a standing ovation by the audience. Really? This is what kids are getting excited about? I doubt it. Of course conserving energy is a good thing and we should be kind to the earth but this climate change hysteria is taking over. Usually somebody will say that 97 percent of climate scientists agree that humans are causing global warming and I was surprised that figure didn't come up in this episode. Could it be that they know how easily debunked that number is? Given the way Dorothy Ann presented man made climate change as fact I doubt it. This issue tends to play incredibly well in the mainstream media as they use climate change as the universal bad guy so I'm sure there were plenty of parents who actually thought this episode was a good idea. I find it hard to believe any parents were happy about this next one though. Episode 12 Monster Power teaches kids that a monster will eat them if they don't use alternative clean energy sources.Albert one of the students has seen a movie in which the evil monster loves pollution and is coming for us next for what we've done to this planet! With the class camping in the woods Miss Frizzle and the other students help him come up with clean energy alternatives wind water etc so they won't be eaten. Instead Miss Frizzle could tell him that monsters aren't real but I guess that didn't occur to her. While it makes sense to teach kids the science of pollution and about all kinds of energy I wouldn't have minded some talk about oil in the dinosaur episode to be honest why would they tell kids that a monster will eat them for using the wrong energy source? I may not have the teaching credentials of Miss Frizzle but I'm pretty sure that's not scientifically accurate.They must really hate fossil fuels as much as their friends on the left. Keeping in mind that the TV Y rating for this series means it's for kids 2 6 I'm sure there are going to be some parents pretty irked at bedtime when kids are scared of the blot monster. Overall this is a cute series and fun bit of nostalgia for those of us who enjoyed the original books or TV series as kids but I could have done without the climate change propaganda and telling kids that traditional energy sources attract monsters is way over the top. Can't kids just learn without an anti scientific social agenda?	True	False	False	False	False
President Donald Trump has been a climate change denier for years alleging that global warming is a Chinese invention and declaring that cold winter days prove that it's a hoax. Perhaps not surprisingly his staff seems to share these views. According to Politico Deputy National Security Advisor K.T. McFarland recently tried to get Trump riled up about climate change with a bit of fake news. McFarland reportedly slipped Trump two Time magazine cover stories. One was supposedly from the 1970s and warned about a coming ice age. The other from 2007 discussed how to survive global warming. But there was one glaring problem The 1970s cover was a hoax. In 2007 Time published a cover story titled The Global Warming Survival Guide. Sometime after that internet hoaxers doctored the cover to instead say How to Survive the Coming Ice Age and alleged that it was a 1977 cover. The hoax spread quickly and climate deniers used it to argue that in the 1970s scientists were actually worried about global coolingand since it didn't happen then the public shouldn't believe warnings about global warming now. The hoax seems to have had its intended effect on Trump who according to Politico quickly got lathered up about the media's hypocrisy. A White House official defended McFarland in an interview with Politico calling the Time hoax fake but accurate. The White House didn't respond to a request for comment from Mother Jones. While the Time global cooling cover story never existed it's certainly true that some media outlets including Time ran stories in the 70s warning about global cooling. One published by Newsweek is a favorite of climate deniers. Scientific American explained Newsweek's global cooling story in 2014 But global cooling was never a popular theory among scientists. Even as some news outlets were writing about it notes Scientific American a counter theory about a warming planet was already on the rise. In fact a survey of peer reviewed scientific papers from 1969 to 1975 shows that the majority of scientists predicted that carbon dioxide levels would rise causing temperatures to rise as well. Scientists have since reached an overwhelming consensus The planet is getting warmer and humans are to blame. But this hasn't stopped climate deniers from citing the old stories as evidence that contemporary news reports about climate change shouldn't be believed. This climate denier for example	True	False	False	True	False
President Donald Trump has called climate change a hoax and a very expensive tax on American businesses that make the US less competitive. He has threatened to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord in which countries around the world pledged to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to keep temperatures from rising past the critical 2C mark. And yet climate change is already imperiling Mar a Lago the crown jewel of Trumps extensive real estate portfolio and his preferred location for carrying out many of his official presidential duties. Rising sea levels are causing more frequent and more damaging tidal floods on the Florida coast and projections suggest that the risk to lives and property from climate change related flooding events is only going to increase dramatically in the coming years. The National and Oceanic Atmospheric Administration NOAA has put out a variety of different estimates of rising sea levels in Southern Florida. The more conservative finding suggests that they could jump anywhere from 3 feet by 2050 to 7 feet by 2100. But in January the agency put out new extreme sea level projections its doomsday scenario in other words. In this scenario wed see a 10 to 12 foot rise in sea level in the US by 2100 which would have dramatic consequences for places like Mar a Lago as you can see in the photo above. So what would a 10 foot rise in sea levels mean for Florida? Heres a satellite image of what that would look like. Large swaths of the state are submerged. Miami is entirely flooded along with the rest of Southern Florida There is evidence that average sea levels are already steadily rising in Southern Florida. A 2016 paper found that in the past decade the average rate of sea level rise had tripled from 3 millimeters a year to 9 millimeters. And overall sea levels in Southern Florida had risen about 90 millimeters or 3.5 inches since 2006. Of the 30 most populous US cities that would be negatively affected by extreme sea level rise Climate Central a nonprofit climate science research group found that 19 were located in Florida circled in yellow in the chart below. Scientists dont have a great understanding of how exactly rapidly sea levels will continue to rise or the precise impact on specific areas. But new research that indicates parts of the Antarctic ice sheet may collapse in the next 100 years and that has scientists scrambling to model more extreme scenarios. If the Antarctic ice sheet does melt it could trigger a catastrophic 10 foot spike in sea levels and inundate major US cities like New York and Miami displacing nearly 150 million people worldwide. It may be a lot less stable in Antarctica than we thought said Ben Strauss a vice president at Climate Central. But the truth is we are relatively early in our scientific understanding of how the great ice sheets will respond to warming. Last summer the Guardian investigated Trumps coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels. What they found was Mar a Lago was already in serious trouble. The estate was at high risk for flooding during heavy rains and storms with water already pooling on the premises in addition to nearby bridges and roads in Palm Beach. Plus in the next 30 years they estimated there will be 210 days a year where Mar a Lago will be flooded with at least a foot of water. Keren Bolter chief scientist for Coastal Risk Consulting and the firm that analyzed Trumps properties told the Guardian that tidal flooding in the next 30 years could partially submerge some of the clubs luxurious cottages and bungalows. And perhaps even eventually render Trumps Southern White House uninhabitable.	True	False	False	True	False
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC broke a two year partisan deadlock Thursday night to approve a liquefied natural gas LNG export terminal in Louisiana. Top Department of Energy DOE officials said this was a major breakthrough that will alleviate a growing problem for U.S. energy producers a lack of export infrastructure. We have been promoting US energy around the world and todays decision by the FERC is a very important one DOE Deputy Secretary Dan Brouillette told The Daily Caller News Foundation in an interview.RELATED US Oil Output Hits 12 Million Barrel A Day Milestone Way Ahead Of Schedule The Calcasieu Pass LNG export terminal is the first such project to get FERC approval in two years. Republican FERC commissioners Neil Chatterjee the chairman and Bernard McNamee worked with Democrat Cheryl LaFleur to hash out an agreement to get her support. Chatterjee and McNamee needed LaFleurs vote to approve Calcasieu Pass which they secured after working out a new approach to account for greenhouse gas emissions from the export facility. This is a tremendous breakthrough DOE Under Secretary of Energy Mark Menezes told TheDCNF. We hope it will serve as an analytical template going forward. Once complete Calcasieu Pass terminal will export up 12 million metric tons of LNG a year. Brouillette said the project already has buyers including in Europe waiting for American natural gas. Hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling spurred an oil and natural gas boom over the past decade making the U.S. the worlds top hydrocarbon producer. However a limiting factor on oil and gas is the lack of export terminals and pipelines. Menezes said breaking FERCs deadlock was also an important step in helping DOE improve its own LNG terminal approval process including making sure theres no duplicative reviews. Getting approval to build an LNG export terminal is a long complicated process that requires approval from multiple agencies. FERC currently has a backlog of a dozen LNG projects awaiting approval.RELATED Obama EPA Regulations Blamed For Closure Of 100 Year Old Coal Plant The Trump administration has been pushing for speedier approvals for LNG terminals but FERC has been holding up the process amid pressure from environmental groups to factor global warming into its approval process. LaFleur for example called on FERC to factor in estimates like the controversial social cost of carbon for a cost benefit analysis. However LaFleur agreed to compromise with her Republican colleagues. FERCs other Democratic commissioner Richard Glick opposed the terminalarguinghis colleagues were deliberately ignoring the consequences that its actions have for climate change. The commissions environmental review of Calcasieu Pass found the facility would emit roughly 3.9 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions a year about 0.07 percent of total U.S. emissions. Brouillette argued that while an individual LNG export terminal would emit greenhouse gases it would help lower global emissions because countries want gas as an alternative to coal. To the extent that LNG is displacing coal around the world we think the impact is going to be positive Brouillette said. Brouillette also stressed the geopolitical implications of LNG exports and the role energy could play in President Donald Trumps foreign policy. These are decisions that impact the presidents ability to make foreign policy decisions Brouillette told TheDCNF. We get to assist Poland we get to assist Lithuania we get to assist the Baltic states. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	True	False	False	True
European Commission President Jean Claude Juncker said President Trump doesnt seem to understand that he cant immediately yank the United States out of the Paris Agreement on climate change. Thats not how it works. The Americans cant just leave the climate protection agreement Juncker said Wednesday according to a translation from NBC News. Mr. Trump believes that because he doesnt get close enough to the dossiers to fully understand them. Reports circulated Wednesday that Trump had decided to withdraw from the international pact which has been signed by every country in the world except Nicaragua and Syria but as of late afternoon there was no formal announcement. Juncker the former prime minister of Luxembourg has been leading the European Commission the civil service of the European Unions executive branch in Brussels since November 2014. During a student conference on Europes future he explained that the United States would have to wait three to four years after the agreement took effect in November 2016 before leaving. Juncker and European Council President Donald Tusk represented the European Union at last weeks Group of Seven G7 summit in Taormina a small town in Sicily. They met with leaders from the seven democracies with the worlds most developed economies Canada France Germany Italy Japan the United Kingdom and the United States. Amid talk of combating terrorism and the global economy they also discussed international efforts to fight climate change. These conversations come at a particularly fraught time because Trump who does not share his predecessor Barack Obamas commitment to clean energy has been reviewing the United States environmental policies. According to a translation from NBC News Juncker said that they attempted to explain to Trump that he could not simply pull the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement because the treaty contains safeguards to prevent exactly that. So this notion I am Trump I am American America first and Im going to get out of it that wont happen he continued. We tried to explain that to Mr. Trump in Taormina in clear German sentences. It seems our attempt failed. He said that the law is the law and it must be obeyed regardless of what Trump thinks adding somewhat sardonically that not everything in international agreements is fake news. On Wednesday morning Axios published a report citing two sources with direct knowledge of the decision that Trump was planning to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement. Shortly after the news spread Trump tweeted that he would be announcing his decision regarding the international agreement within the next few days. Later Wednesday during a meeting with Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc of Vietnam at the White House Trump dodged a question about whether he still thinks that climate change is a hoax. When asked if he was leaning in a direction concerning Paris Trump simply said Im hearing from a lot of people both ways. Many scientific organizations have released statements or reports affirming that anthropogenic climate change is real and that it could have devastating effects if actions are not taken to limit carbon dioxide emissions. The American Meteorological Society released a statement that read in part It is clear from extensive scientific evidence that the dominant cause of the rapid change in climate of the past half century is human induced increases in the amount of atmospheric greenhouse gases including carbon dioxide CO chlorofluorocarbons methane and nitrous oxide. Dan Bodansky a law professor at Arizona State University and a leading climate change expert explained that Trump could get the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement two different ways withdrawing from the Paris Agreement itself or leaving the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC. The text of Paris Agreement allows for countries to provide a years notice of its intent to withdraw. But this notice cannot be submitted until three years after the agreement entered into force for that country which happened in November 2016. Whether the U.S. decides to pull out or not under international law and the Paris Agreement the withdrawal would not be effective until 2020 Bodansky told Yahoo News. Another option which would get the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement in just one year would be to leave UNFCCC which was an agreement brokered under former President George H.W. Bush in the early 90s. Although this would be faster it would carry even more serious consequences. Bodansky said that leaving the UNFCCC would automatically get the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement as well. If we pulled out of both then we wouldnt be a party at all. We wouldnt participate in meetings and wed just be there as an observer he said. Both of them would be viewed very negatively by other countries by allies in Europe and elsewhere but pulling out of the Framework Convention would be an even more drastic step. Trump goes after negative press covfefe in botched midnight tweet Duck! Treasury will hit debt limit soon unless Congress votes to raise it	True	False	False	True	True
Thousands gathered in cities across the globe including London Berlin Tokyo and Washington DC to protest anthropogenic climate change and the purported lack of urgency to address it. However there was a remarkable lack of participation from individuals in China the planets worst greenhouse gas emitter minus a protest in Hong Kong. According to the Guardian No protests were authorized in China. However the China Youth Climate Action NetworksZheng Xiaowen said that Chinese youth have their own methods. We also pay attention to the climate and we are also thinking deeply interacting taking action and so many people are very conscientious on this issue she added. Several climate change activists in D.C. decried the U.S. for its role in contributing to climate change despite the fact that the U.S. has made great strides in reducing its carbon output seeing the largest decline in CO2 emissions in the world for 9th time this century in 2017. The largest increase that year came from China. According to a report released by theEnvironmental Protection Agency EPA last year the U.S. reduced its greenhouse gas output by 2.7 percent during President Trumps first year in office. Thanks to President Trumps regulatory reform agenda the economy is booming energy production is surging and we are reducing greenhouse gas emissions from major industrial sources EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler said at the time. These achievements flow largely from technological breakthroughs in the private sector not the heavy hand of government. The Trump Administration has proven that federal regulations are not necessary to drive CO2 reductions Wheeler continued. While many around the world are talking about reducing greenhouse gases the U.S. continues to deliver and todays report is further evidence of our action oriented approach he added. Rep. Adam Kinzinger R IL reiterated that point to Greta Thunberg and the other climate kids who testified before theHouse Committee on Foreign Affairs andSelect Committee on the Climate Crisis on Wednesday. Meanwhile as the West looks at options to combat climate change we all know that Chinas global emissions continue to rise. For every ton of carbon dioxide reduced by the United States China adds nearly four times as much Kinzinger said. Today the Chinese account for 30 percent of global emissions. While some may say that the United States needs to be the leader of combating climate change I would say that we already are he continued. Since 2005 global emissions have increased by 20 percent but the United States emissions have decreased by more than the next 12 emission reducing countries combined he added. As Breitbart News reported China is ramping up its coal powered energy supply with the total of future projects now standing at 226.2 gigawatts GW Despite Chinas blatant disregard for the calls of climate change alarmists it has been granted permission to speak at the U.N. international climate summit next week in New York.	True	False	False	True	False
DETROIT Theresa Landrum survived her battle with cancer. But her parents didnt. Neither did at least 10 other people who lived on her block. Such is life and death in the 48217 Michigans most polluted ZIP code home to automotive plants the states only oil refinery and more than 8200 mostly working class African Americans. On Tuesday Landrum a retired General Motors factory worker marched downtown with as many as 2000 fellow Detroiters to the steps of the Fox Theatre where 10 Democratic presidential hopefuls were scheduled to face off in thesecond round of primary debates. The protest marked one of the most confrontational demands for a Green New Deal in months as local groups took up the mantle from national climate campaigners which have shifted their efforts to focus on demanding a climate only Democratic primary debate. Amid the gleaming towers of automotive giants whose vehicles now spew the majority of Americas climate changing gases the demonstrators called for a future in which the health of the planet and its people guides industrial planning andin which the Motor City sheds its association with combustion engines. We are being robbed and pillaged by industry Landrum said her voice rising to a preachers righteous crescendo. Then you know what we get? A few job promises and they get to pollute as much as they want. The three word slogan surged into Americas political lexicon last November when activists with the youth led Sunrise Movement occupied then incoming House Speaker Nancy Pelosis office demanding Democrats champion climate policy that actually matches the scope of the crisis. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. took heed. In February she and Sen. Ed Markey D Mass. introduced a resolution that outlined the core tenets of a Green New Deal. Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warrens growing inventory of policy proposals includes plans to decarbonize the military by 2030 halt fossil fuel leasing on public lands and put new restrictions on businesses ability to influence lawmakers. California Sen. Kamala Harris the only candidate to bring up the Green New Deal in the first round of debates co sponsored a climate justice bill with Ocasio Cortez this week that lays the groundwork for federal climate spending to benefit poor minority communities who disproportionately suffer the impacts of pollution. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders who has yet to release a comprehensive climate plan has positioned himself as the standard bearer of former President Franklin D. Roosevelts economic ideals and a vocal proponent of the Green New Deal movement. Climate change received a combined 15 minutes of airtime during last months debates in Miami woefully insufficient given the scope of the crisis but significant progress for an issue that was virtually ignored in the 2016 election. But because the events were held in a city threatened by rising sea levels debate questions focused on the magnitude of the global warming crisis and the risks posed by runaway emissions. The Frontline Detroit Coalition the alliance of a dozen local environmental groups and unions who organized Tuesdays march struck a markedly different tone. If Miami is a city in need of salvation from rising seas Detroit in their vision could be the savior. Ahead of the march musicians and activists took a makeshift stage in Cass Park a historic green space where last months record heatwave left the grass crisp and brown and led crowds chanting build a new economy and invest in our community. The Green New Deal is a platform an empty box. Its not going to be fully ready until it begins to reflect the kind of environmental and energy issues that our people are concerned about said Darryl Jordan 65 the co director of the East Michigan Environmental Action Council. Were not in a state where the differences between Democrats and Republicans are that radical. If there is poetry in demanding a Green New Deal in the city that birthed the automotive age the citys union legacy gives the call real teeth. Powerful construction unions that depend on the fossil fuel industry for lucrative jobs have publicly opposed the Green New Deal though the movement has garnered growing labor support including an official endorsement from the Service Employees International Union last month.	True	False	False	True	True
While speaking in Kentucky at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Pruitt said he will sign the proposed rule repealing Obama's plan Tuesday. When you think about what that rule meant it was about picking winners and losers. Regulatory power should not be used by any regulatory body to pick winners and losers he said at the event. The past administration was using every bit of power and authority to use the EPA to pick winners and losers and how we generate electricity in this country. That's wrong. Under the interpretation proposed in this notice the CPP exceeds the EPA's statutory authority and would be repealed the proposal reads. The EPA welcomes comment on the legal interpretation addressed in this proposed rulemaking. The proposal also says the EPA has yet to determine whether it will create an additional rule on the regulation of greenhouse gases. first reported on the repeal proposal. first reported on the repeal proposal. Bloomberg News first reported on the repeal proposal. The Clean Power Plan requires states to meet specific carbon emission reduction standards based on their individual energy consumption. The plan also includes an incentive program for states to get a head start on meeting standards on early deployment of renewable energy and low income energy efficiency. Under President Barack Obama the EPA estimated the Clean Power Plan could prevent 2700 to 6600 premature deaths and 140000 to 150000 asthma attacks in children. When asked earlier this year on Fox News about the health consequences of doing away with the Clean Power Plan Pruitt ducked the question and focused on how the plan would cost jobs. He argued the plan was bureaucratic overreach. As much as we want to see progress made with clean air and clean water with an understanding that we can also grow jobs we have to do so within the framework of what Congress has passed Pruitt said. Former EPA employees have reacted harshly to the planned repeal of the rule. Obama's EPA administrator Gina McCarthy called the proposal just plain backwards. A proposal to repeal the Clean Power Plan without any time line or even a commitment to propose a rule to reduce carbon pollution isn't a step forward it's a wholesale retreat from EPA's legal scientific and moral obligation to address the threats of climate change McCarthy said in a statement Friday. Environmental advocacy groups quickly blasted Pruitt's decision with many vowing to fight the measure in court. Now the public has an opportunity to weigh in as EPA is required to accept public comment on the proposed repeal and a discussion paper on a replacement Rhea Suh president of the Natural Resources Defense Council said in a statement Monday. In addition NRDC expects to take EPA to court when the Clean Power Plan repeal is made final. When reports of the EPA's planned move began to be reported over the weekend Environmental Defense Fund President Fred Krupp said repealing the plan without replacing it with any protections from climate destabilizing pollution would fail to protect Americans from harmful pollution designated under the Clean Air Act. And Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club said Trump and Pruitt are launching one of the most egregious attacks on public health and climate safety. No matter who is in the White House the EPA is legally required to limit dangerous carbon pollution and the Clean Power Plan is an achievable affordable way to do that Brune said in a Monday news release. It is a key element in continuing the progress moving toward clean energy and retiring coal. Former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg whose philanthropy said it would donate 15 million toward supporting operations of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change after the Trump administration announced intentions to withdraw from the Paris climate accord tweeted his criticism of the repeal proposal Monday. The EPA can repeal the Clean Power Plan but not the laws of economics Bloomberg tweeted. This won't revive coal or stop the US from reaching our Paris goal.	True	False	False	True	False
New Yorks democratic socialist sweetheart Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez is trying very hard to sell her idea of apocalyptic climate change or at least the side of Ocasio Cortez thats serious about climate change ending the world in 12 years is. The other side of her thinks were foolish for believing her claim that climate change will destroy the world in 12 years. She can be very confusing. It seems however that shes very confused herself specifically about how weather works. Recently Washington D.C. suffered from tornado friendly weather pushing AOC into believing that this natural disaster is simply part of the climate change disaster sweeping the globe. She also seemed disturbed at the appearance of casual tornadoes though were not exactly sure what those are and AOC did not elaborate. The climate crisis is real yall Ocasio said on Instagram. Guess were at casual tornadoes in growing regions of the country? The odd proclamation prompted meteorologist Ryan Maue to step in and offer the young Democrat a lesson in what weather is. I thought this was fake but its from Ocasio Cortezs Instagram story tweeted Maue. No idea what she means with casual tornadoes and how this line of severe thunderstorms is proof of any climate crisis he continued. Its just the weather in D.C. In a second tweet Maue pointed out that AOC doesnt seem to know the difference between weather and climate and offered her an easy analogy so that she understood for the future. Weather is what outfit you wear heading out the door tweeted Maue. Climate is your closet wardrobe. Last year climatologistJudith Curry noted that many of the world ending weather scenarios and predictions from politicians like AOC are as good as fantasy novels and told the Daily Caller that its actually impossible to predict what the climate will look like over a decade out. Projections of extreme alarming impacts are very weakly justified to borderline impossible Curry told The Daily Caller News Foundation. Currys latestresearch put together for clients of her consulting company near the end of November looks in detail at projections of sea level rise. Currys ultimate conclusion Some of the worst case scenarios strain credulity. With regards to 21st century climate projections we are dealing with deep uncertainty and we should not be basing our policies based on the assumption that the climate will actually evolve as per predicted Curry told TheDCNF. Climate variability and change is a lot more complex than CO2 as control knob Curry said. No one wants to hear this or actually spend time understanding things Curry said. Of course a lot of this alarmism from Ocasio Cortez is a weak attempt to sell her Green New Deal which already failed to pass through Congress with any yes votes. The point of the Green New Deal isnt necessarily to save the world but to push socialistic standards for America in everything from how we travel to how we farm. However everyone from economists to climate scientists to Democrat politicians have called the Green New Deal a foolish venture and after having reviewed it personally I can say its a piece of legislation thats really only good enough for kindling.	True	True	False	True	False
Ivanka Trump on Thursday retweeted a White House message hailing the administration as a driver for science and Twitter was agog. The initial tweet was posted the White House Office of Science and Technology after it issued a report titled Science Technology Highlights in the Second Year of the Trump Administration. On Wednesday The Washington Post reported that Trump was convening a panel the Presidential Committee on Climate Security to question the findings of federal scientists and experts on climate change andcounter red alert warningsfrom the scientific community. President Donald Trumps pick to head the committee William Happer once compared the demonization of CO2 to how Jews were characterized in Nazi Germany. Happer who has no experience in climatology has said having higher atmospheric carbon dioxide levels is beneficial. Trump said late last year that he didnt believe a dire report by federal agencies about climate change declaring Were the cleanest weve ever been. His run ins with climate science were repeatedly highlighted in responses to the retweet by thefirst daughter and senior White House adviser. For the past two years the Trump Administration has been an active and meaningful driver for science and technology policy in America. pic.twitter.comJQkiWI4Dx2 White House OSTP February 21 2019 Donald Trump has said he will pull the US out of the Paris international climate agreement! taken steps to cut back the US Environmental Protection Agency is on record saying that global warming is a hoax invented by the Chinese to attack US manufacturing...... Dawn Amos meh my dogs are the boss of me February 21 2019 You can't believe science in a selective manner and claim to be pro science. That is hypocrisy. Robert Johnson February 21 2019 When you continue to deny climate science you cant make the claim that you are a driver of science policy. No more gaslighting. merryterry February 21 2019	True	False	False	False	False
An extensive report from the Environmental Protection Agency found that including ethanol into the U.S. gas supply is wreaking havoc on the atmosphere and soil. In a study titled Biofuels and the Environment The Second Triennial Report to Congress the Environmental Protection Agency EPA determined thatethanol derived from corn and soybeans is causing serious harm to the environment.Water soil and air quality were all found to be adversely affected by biofuel mandates. Evidence since enactment of the Energy Independence and Security Act suggests an increase in acreage planted with soybeans and corn with strong indications from observed changes in land use that some of this increase is a consequence of increased biofuel production read a portion of the 159 page report. The ethanol mandate has negatively effected water quality with greater biofuel production resulting in more harmful algae blooms and hypoxia. While most algae is harmless to water some forms such as the kind produced in Lake Eerie from biofuel feedstock has emitted toxic chemicals into the water. This harmful algae can consume the oxygen in the water a process known as hypoxia killing other wildlife. Increased irrigation fueled by growing demand for ethanol has also taken a toll on the ground with the report finding grassland to annual crop conversion negatively impacts soil quality because it increases erosion and the loss of soil nutrients. Essentially the study found that biofuel mandates are boosting production of corn and soybeans. Large scale production of these crops is causing environmental degradation.The EPA also found that at least in some instances using ethanol in lieu of gasoline resulted in worse air emissions. Air quality modeling suggests that production and use of ethanol as fuel to displace gasoline is likely to increase such air pollutants as PM2.5 ozone and SOx in some locations read a section of the report pertaining to air quality. While traditional gasoline contains more CO2 ethanol based fuels have more nitrogen oxides NOx which can be more harmful to human health. NOx can exacerbate asthma by causing inflammation of the respiratory airwaves with long term exposure resulting in decreased lung function The mandate in reference concerns the Renewable Fuel Standard RFS a 2005 law that requires oil refineries include a certain amount of ethanol in their fuel mix. The law was passed with the intention of aiding in climate change efforts. The RFS has proven to be controversial with oil producers deriding the mandate as costly and unneeded. Corn growers however support the mandate as it drives demand for the product. RELATED New EPA Chief Will Continue Scott Pruitts War With The Corn Lobby During his time leading the EPA Scott Pruitt became an adversary of ethanol proponents after granting more RFS waivers and pushing for a rollback of the law altogether. Its not immediately clear how the Trump administration will handle the RFS debate moving forward. Acting EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler has suggested he will continue seeking changes to the mandate but President Donald Trump told an Iowa crowd in July that the EPA may soon allow for more ethanol to be included in gas. The EPA study published on June 29 came after a long delay. Federal law calls for the EPA to conduct a study on the Renewable Fuel Standard every three years but the government was four years late this go around. The agencys previous ethanol study was published in 2011. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	True	True	True	True
The Five co host Jesse Watters had some tough words for 2020 hopeful Beto O'Rourke after the former Texas representative proposed a 5 trillion climate change plan alongside the claim that the United States only had 10 years left to address the issue. If someone calls you on thephone and says you're going todie in ten years unless you giveme all your money that's ascam Watters said.He'sascam artist andeverybodyknows it. O'Rourke asserted his controversial 10 year prediction while appearing on MSNBC on Monday. He told host Chris Hayes that he sought to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. During that appearance he indicated that he would have to make himself an opponent of the oil and gas industries'interests. We know that certain oil and gas corporations have been fighting public policy on this issue have been hiding their own science and research at the expense of our climate and human life he said. OCASIO CORTEZ CALLS CLIMATE CHANGE OUR 'WORLD WAR II' WARNS THE WORLD WILL END IN 12 YEARS So whenever those two things come in contrast or in opposition I'm always going to choose the people of this country. O'Rourke also said that he wanted people in the fossil fuel industry to act as partners in reaching his goal. You have a 21 trillionU.S. economy thefossil fuel industry runs thiseconomy it'screated all of thiswealth revolutionizedtransportation communications industry lifted people out of poverty Watters said. Beto who'sdone nothingexcept lose to Sen. Ted Cruz R Texascomesup and says I'm going to take 5 trillion and I'm going to reverse everything and change it all. He's no Einstein he's no Carnegie. Where does he get off thinking he's going to stop human progress? Watters asked. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP He went on to speculate that O'Rourke pushed his climate plan because he felt guilty about the American economy's success because he and other liberals have not had enough input in it. O'Rourke's program was an ambitious endeavor similar to Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez's D N.Y. Green New Deal which many saw as too expensive and unrealistic. When Ocasio Cortezresponded to O'Rourke's plan she said he didn't have an aggressive enough timeline.	False	True	False	True	False
Washington CNN Toy gun grasped firmly in his hand and a grin plastered wide across his face while he played Big Buck Hunter Pro Ryan Zinke could have been a kid at an arcade. But the Interior secretary and former congressman was actually in the department cafeteria showing off the arcade game installed to commemorate hunting season. To highlight contributions 2 conservation I installed Big Buck Hunter in the employee cafeteria. Get excited for season! Zinke tweeted from his personal account Tuesday. But Zinke is not toying around when it comes to his support of hunters and fishers. Hunting in the United States is down. A US Fish and Wildlife Service survey released last week found that there are 2.2 million fewer hunters in America now than in 2011. And the new administration is poised to change that. On his first day in office back in March Zinke issued two orders one which overturned a recent ban of lead ammunition and fish tackle on Fish and Wildlife Service lands and waters. Last week Zinke issued another secretarial order designed to increase access to various public lands for hunters and fishers. What really kind of expedited this whole thing was last week the US Fish and Wildlife put out a survey saying that hundreds of Americans were enjoying the outdoors but within that survey they found that hunting was down Heather Swift Interior spokesperson said when asked about last week's secretarial order. And the big thing that the secretary hears over and over again is that people just don't have access to land. Mr. Zinke was the pick of the litter not the best litter ever but he was definitely the pick and that's why we advocated for him and that's why Jr. advocated for him as well said Land Tawney the president of the Montana based Backcountry Hunters Anglers a non profit sportsmen's organization. Zinke and the Interior have recently made a big show of their support of hunting groups. In addition to the Buck Hunter game he gifted Interior employees the department declared Thursday that October would be National Hunting and Fishing Month. The declaration also generated the support of the National Rifle Association. Hunters anglers and target shooters are the best conservationists who contribute so much through the Pittman Robertson and Dingell Johnson Acts said Richard Childress NRA vice president. Last year they contributed 1.2 billion toward conservation and protecting our natural resources. We need more mentors taking young people out and teaching them to hunt and fish so I'm glad Secretary Zinke is promoting hunting and fishing at the federal level. With what's leaked it's super troubling. Any reduction on these monuments is an attack on the Antiquities Act said Tawney. All monuments are at risk now. They can become political footballs in our eyes. Conservationists who want to expand their access to hunting on public park lands and at monuments are as weary of opening up national park land to fossil fuel industries as environmentalists are since both value sustaining the land as is. We can have all the access we want to a concrete parking lot but that access doesn't mean anything if that fish and wildlife habitat isn't there said Tawney. Another pro hunting group says what they are seeing within Interior is a fight between access and conservation. On the access front the department has been good. Access to our own public lands is a lot harder today than it ever has been and that is in part introduced with the decline in hunting numbers we've seen said Whit Fosburgh president and CEO of the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership a non profit coalition of conservation organizations and outdoor related businesses. On the conservation side however I think it's a much less rosy picture Fosburgh said. It's been a lot more about expanding development opening up to oil and gas. There has been no proactive conservation vision espoused for our public lands. Fosburgh said that the hunting community started getting a little bit critical of Zinke after he first announced the National Monument Review earlier this year. And he's skeptical of just how far the secretarial order will go. They use hunting and fishing for an excuse for our changes in monuments he said. All of the ones under review already allow hunting and fishing very clearly. Fosberg's criticism is similar to what environmental groups said following the secretarial order last week. Don't be fooled the Trump Administration is pretending to be granting hunting and fishing rights that are already guaranteed by law and policy said a statement from the Center for American Progress a left leaning thing tank. The real story is that with this announcement the Trump administration is trying to create a distraction from their plans to dramatically reduce the size of America's national monuments which would be the largest elimination of protections on wildlife habitat in US history. Nevertheless Fosburgh said most pro hunting and conservation minded groups are still hoping for the best with the Trump administration. We're very prepared and we have been from day one. We supported his nomination and we are prepared to work with Secretary Zinke he said. We're not going to just say it's a lost cause in September of the first year of the administration.	False	False	True	False	False
Scott Pruitt who on Thursday resigned as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency was a firm favourite of Donald Trump. But Pruitt was plagued by scandal and faltered in carrying out the presidents agenda of peeling back clean air and water regulations. His replacement is likely to be far more adept. While Pruitt was a bte noire to environmentalists for his zeal in targeting Obama era rules and his dismissal of climate science his attempts at deregulation were regularly framed as rushed and clumsy as they floundered in the courts. Andrew Wheeler Pruitts replacement at least in the interim could be a more effective weapon for Trump. A consummate Washington insider and a former coal lobbyist he will likely approach his work with the same ideology as Pruitt but without the flamboyance and ethical scandals a far more dangerous prospect for those aghast at the Trump administrations attitude to the environment. Pruitts agenda was really Trumps agenda and I think Andrew is as fully committed to advancing it as Pruitt was Myron Ebell who led the EPA transition team for Trump and has known Wheeler for two decades told the Guardian. He knows much more about managing the agency and the technical side of the environmental statutes that EPA is charged with enforcing than Pruitt. Undoing Barack Obamas regulatory onslaught at EPA is a key part of the presidents economic revival agenda and therefore Wheeler will be a point man for Trump just as Pruitt was. For opponents of the president the prospect is a daunting one. Scott Pruitt was the most scandal plagued cabinet member in an administration rife with corruption said Christy Goldfuss an environment advisor to Obama who is now at the Center for American Progress. There is no reason to believe that Wheeler will fix the problems left behind and put childrens health ahead of his industry friends. Confirmed by the Senate as deputy EPA administrator in April Wheeler is well versed in the machinations of the federal government. He spent four years at the EPAs office of pollution prevention in the Bush and Clinton administrators before working for Senator James Inhofe an Oklahoma Republican whose vocal rejection of climate change science involved theatrics such as bringing a snowball on to the Senate floor. Wheeler then became a lobbyist at Faegre Baker Daniels where he represented Murray Energy a major coal company until August 2017. The firm put to Trump a wish list of environmental rollbacks Wheeler helped in its attempts to fight limits on toxic emissions such as mercury. While working for Marco Rubios presidential campaign in February 2016 Wheeler wrote a now deleted Facebook post in which he called Trump a PR person and a bully which he said should alone should disqualify him from the White House. That has not hindered his rise in the Trump administration. Shortly after his nomination in October Wheeler sent an email to Ryan Jackson Pruitts chief of staff with a link to an article by the satirical website the Onion that was headlined EPA Promotes Pulsating Black Sludge to Deputy Director. Welcome pulsating black sludge Jackson responded in emails released under freedom of information laws. I guess Im going to have to get the cleaning crews to come in more often. Wheeler insisted he didnt want Pruitts job. I could have put my hat in the ring for the administrator he said in June. I wasnt interested in that. I am still not interested in that. Now that he is in the role he said he didnt covet he will be tasked with completing the job of dismantling environmental and climate regulations. Pruitt went about it enthusiastically but ran into legal action launched by states such as New York and California as well as environmental groups. Pruitts attempt to halt restrictions on emissions of methane a powerful greenhouse gas was stymied by the courts as were proposed delays to stricter limits of lead in paint and hazy ozone in urban areas. Trumps EPA has also had difficulty in coming up with robust reasons why fuel efficiency rules for cars should be watered down or what will replace the clean power plan given that the agency is legally obliged to force down greenhouse gas emissions. Wheeler with his knowledge of the rule making process will help manage such reversals while avoiding headlines over 1500 fountain pens Trump Hotel mattresses or Chick fil A franchises. He is low key and likes to keep a low profile Ebell said. He may have to do more public speaking than he wants to. A senior EPA official who did not wish to be named said I think it will be night and day with Wheeler or at least night and late afternoon. He will talk to us. Hes a human being not a politician. Wheeler is likely to maintain Pruitts close ties to industry however. Under Trump the fossil fuel industry has wielded unusual influence over the agency that supposedly regulates it and beleaguered staff fret that its public health mission is at risk of being buried. Pruitts removal is just the first step in restoring a strong EPA that gets back to its mission to protect public health and our environment said Carol Browner a long serving EPA chief in Bill Clintons administration. Congress must ensure the next EPA administrator is not another industry insider.	True	False	False	True	True
In February a group of high profile Republicans announced their support for a plan that would tax carbon dioxide emissions in order to slow global warming which they believe to be caused by humans. According to the group which is led by former Secretaries of State James Baker III and George Shultz and former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson their plan would tax fossil fuel companies and redistribute the funds back to Americans in equal portions thereby artificially raising the price of fossil fuels and making renewable energy sources more competitive. Now left wing climate alarmists are seizing on this idea which some say is the only policy idea attempting to limit fossil fuels the American people and the Trump administration would be willing to support. Climate alarmists have long advocated for a carbon tax in varying forms as one possible solution to the purported global warming crisis. In a recent interview with the Scientific American noted climate alarmist James Hansen which the article refers to as the father of climate change awareness said the plan promoted by Republicans is similar to one he developed in 2008 and would be popular with the American people. The only effective way of addressing climate change is to make the price of fossil fuels include their cost to society said Hansen. That could be done in a simple way by collecting a fee from the fossil fuel companies that would gradually rise over timea carbon fee and dividend. I call it a carbon fee because you would give all of the money to the public a dividend to each legal resident Hansen said. have adopted almost precisely as I proposed it in 2008. The starting level of the fee varies from one proposition to anotherI believe that they start at 40 per ton of carbon. suggest 55 per ton yields a dividend of 1000 per legal resident and 3000 for a family with two or more children with one half share for each child a maximum of two half shares per family. Hansen claims by imposing the tax and then redistributing the money to consumers the increased price of gasoline would be offset and Americans would be happy having received thousands of extra dollars from the government. This way it actually stimulates the economy Hansen said. If its a tax taken by the government it makes the government bigger and it depresses the economy. Thats why I object to the Democrats as much as to the Republicans. The only way the public will allow a carbon fee is if you give the money to thempeople dont want to see the price of gasoline at the pump going up. The Washington Post reported on April 4 sources inside the Trump administration say the president is considering including a carbon tax as one way to help raise revenues. The Post also reported the sources claimed the carbon tax proposal is very controversial and that some within the administration are staunchly opposed to it. Carbon taxes are viewed by many on the left as an easy way to price fossil fuels out of the marketplace making renewable energy comparably more affordable. Opponents of the plan say its another form of socialistic wealth distribution that will dramatically raise energy costs. Opponents say energy costs will increase not only because of the tax but also because energy companies will raise prices across the board knowing that all consumers have more money to spend thanks to carbon tax dividends.	False	False	False	True	True
Aswildfirescontinue torageacross the Westduring a brutally hotsummer on Thursday the US Forest Service released itsnewforest fire management strategy thatfocuses on science and thechanging climate. The report comes at the same time the president has sent out misleading tweets aboutthe causes and solutions of Californias wildfires and as Donald Trumps Interior head Ryan Zinke has blamed fires on environmentalists denied climate change science and called for more logging. Zinke has said the forest fires have nothing to do with climate change and recently called the left angry intolerant and uninformed on the environment and public land management according to the Huffington Post. But the Department of the Interior disputes this in an email to Mother Jones saying The Secretary addressed the correlation between climate and fires dozens of times over the 48 hours he was in California and all week in interviews since returning. Additionally in his op ed the Secretary directly addressed longer hotter drier seasons in the opening paragraphs.Its true that Zinke changed his tuneafter his earlier comments Zinke told reportersThursday that climate change has played a role in the fires and that global temperatures are rising. Trump weighed in on Californias fires on Twitter earlier this month with tweets that were immediately described as false and misleadingsaying California wildfires are being magnified made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which arent allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilizedMust also tree clear to stop fire spreading! Mother Jonesasked an expert to decipher this nonsense and you can read his analysis here. But today the Forest Servicewhich is part of the Department of Agriculture released anew 28 page fire management strategy. In itthe service writes Of particular concern are longer fire seasons and the rising size and severity of wildfires along with the growing risk to lives homes natural resources and other values. The report also includes a map of changes in fire weather seasons in the United States between 1979 and 2017 a phenomenon scientists warn is largely due to climate change Though the Forest Service doesnt mention the words climate change specifically aspast versions of the plan have it points out that changes in temperature precipitation patterns and other environmental conditions are all driving factors behind wildfires and other environmental challenges. And in the Appendix the Forest Service writes effects of a changing climate are a general threat to forest health. Its a breath of fresh air to see science instead of politics inserted into forest and fire management saidKirin Kennedy associatelegislative director for lands and wildlife at the Sierra Club in a statement. The longer Ryan Zinke continues to ignore these facts the greater the risks to homes and families.	False	False	False	False	False
Warren promised in a tweet Friday to sign an executive order that puts a total moratorium on all new fossil fuel leases for drilling offshore and on public lands and vowed to ban fracking everywhere Warrens pledge to ban fracking follows Sen. Bernie Sanders I VT call urging fellow Democrat candidates to support a fracking ban on public and private lands. Fracking is a danger to our water supply. Its a danger to the air we breathe. It causes earthquakes. Its highly explosive. Safe fracking is like clean coal pure fiction Sanders said in a statement Wednesday. But most importantly methane from natural gas contributes to climate change and is setting us on a path to disaster he added. When we are in the White House we will end the era of fossil fuels and that includes fracking Ten Democrat candidates participated in CNNs seven hour climate change town hall Wednesday and manysignaled support for the implementation of a carbon tax as well as plastic straw bans actions on meat consumption and the end of fracking. Theres no question Im in favor of banning fracking Sen. Kamala Harris D CA said during the town hall. Starting with what we can do on day one around public lands and then there has to be legislation but yes. This is something Ive taken on in California I have a history of working on this issue she added. Sen. Cory Booker D NJ said he would ban fracking right away on public lands. Warren released her comprehensive climate change proposal inspired by Gov. Jay Inslee D ahead of CNNs town hall. It called for the decarbonization of the economy and100 percent clean energy over the next decade. While Warren did not go as far as Sanders in calling for the complete public ownership of utilities she said she will tell companies that use carbon based fuel that they are done by 2035. Im perfectly willing to take on giant corporations. I think Ive been known to do that once or twice. But for me I think the way we get there is we just say sorry guys but by 2035 youre done she said during CNNs town hall.	True	False	False	True	True
The White House shot down rumors Tuesday that administration officials were considering a tax on carbon dioxide emissions. The Washington Post published a story on Tuesday citing two Trump administration officials who said a carbon tax and value added tax or VAT were under consideration as part of a broader tax reform plan. But the White House quickly disavowed the statements allegedly made by the two officials marking the second time in three weeks the Trump administration has had to shoot down carbon tax rumors. As we have said many times the Presidents team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the Presidents plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986 deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters said in a statement responding to WaPosstory. As of now neither a carbon tax nor a VAT are under consideration Walters said. Walters told reporters in March the Trump administration is not considering a carbon tax after press secretary Sean Spicer waffled on the question. White House officials met with a group of Republicans who back a carbon tax in early February. Spicer did not respond to a request for comment. A small group of Republicans have been pushing a carbon tax for years arguing its more efficient than federal regulations and could be used to offset revenue losses from reductions in tax rates. Most recently old guard Republicans on the Climate Leadership Council CLC met with White House officials to pitch a carbon tax that would start at 40 per ton and rise over the years. CLC says the tax could replace federal regulations and the revenues could be given back to Americans in the form of dividends. Many carbon tax proposals are revenue neutral reads the Councils plan. This proposal goes one step further by shrinking the overall size of government and streamlining the regulatory state. The meeting sparked speculation that the White House was considering a carbon tax as part of a broader tax reform plan. Many carbon tax plans claim to raise 1 trillion over ten years. The White House has shot down such speculation but some administration officials seem intent on telling media outlets a carbon tax is still being considered. Most Republicans dont buy into a carbon tax. They argue its not very conservative to back what would essentially amount to a tax on energy which would effectively raise the price of all goods and services. President Donald Trump told the American Energy Alliance in a survey taken during the campaign that he opposed a carbon tax and the Obama administrations social cost of carbon estimate. Trump signed an executive order in late March rescinding the Obama administrations social cost of carbon estimate. Trump also ordered the Environmental Protection Agency EPA to review and possibly rescind the Clean Power Plan the cornerstone of the former administrations global warming agenda. Conservative activists point out theres no deal to be made on trading federal environmental regulations for a carbon tax since Trumps already promised to roll back 75 percent of federal rules. If the Trump Administration were to endorse this idea they would not only be breaking a campaign commitment but would essentially be negotiating against themselves on regulations said Tom Pyle president of the American Energy Alliance and former member of Trumps transition team. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	False	False	False	False	False
Environmental groups plan to sue the Trump administration over offshore drilling tests launching a legal fight against a proposal that has drawn bipartisan opposition along the Atlantic Coast two people with direct knowledge of the pending litigation told The Associated Press. The lawsuit which aims to stop the issuance of permits for the use of seismic air guns will be filed by a coalition of environmental groups in federal court in South Carolina on Tuesday according to the individuals. They spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly before the suit is filed. The Trump administration has authorized five such permits which aim to find oil and gas formations deeply below the Atlantic Ocean floor from Delaware to central Florida an area where seismic surveys haven't been conducted in decades. The blasts are conducted in preparation for potential offshore drilling which the administration has proposed to expand from the Atlantic to the Arctic and Pacific oceans. The five year plan would open 90 percent of the nation's offshore reserves to private development. Survey vessels will be required to have observers on board to listen and watch for marine life and alert operators if a protected species comes within a certain distance officials have said and acoustic monitoring will be used to detect those animals swimming beneath the ocean surface. Surveys would be shut down when certain sensitive species or groups are observed and penalties could be imposed for vessels that strike marine animals. The precautions aren't enough for environmental groups who have said the blasts can disturb marine mammals. Industry groups say the surveys have been conducted around the world for decades with little adverse impact. The drilling issue has created strange political bedfellows along the East Coast with Democrats and Republicans in some areas united over the issue. In South Carolina's 1st Congressional District Republican Katie Arrington a supporter of President Donald Trump who initially said she stood by his plans to open up Atlantic Coast drilling later backed off that support amid a growing wave of drilling opposition in the coastal district she aimed to represent. Arrington ultimately lost the general election to Joe Cunningham a Democrat staunchly opposed to drilling who collected support from coastal Republican mayors. Voters said they had been turned off by what they saw as Arrington's flip flop on the issue and they turned instead to Cunningham's consistency. On Monday Cunningham told the AP that he backed the legal effort which would pair with legislative action he plans to take up in the U.S. House. I'm going to go up to D.C. and fight like hell Cunningham said. These lawsuits are one tool in our bag that we're going to use. South Carolina Gov. Henry McMaster's early support of Trump's candidacy hasn't stopped him from opposing the president's drilling plans. Earlier this year McMaster was among state executives to request a drilling waiver seeking the same sort of promise already given to Florida Gov. Rick Scott another Trump ally. Since then officials from the Department of the Interior have said Secretary Ryan Zinke's promise to Florida was not a formal action and will instead be part of the department's analysis as it completes its plans. In February McMaster met with Zinke at the Governor's Mansion in Columbia. This week McMaster spokesman Brian Symmes told The Associated Press that the governor and the state's top prosecutor both Republicans would continue to work on a plan to keep drilling away from the state. The governor and Attorney General Alan Wilson have resolved to continue working together to determine the best path forward Symmes said. Anything and everything is on the table to keep us from seeing seismic testing or offshore drilling off the coast of South Carolina. State Rep. Nancy Mace a Republican representing parts of the greater Charleston area supports the lawsuit which she called South Carolina's best option to challenge federal government overreach. The government doesn't get to pick winners and losers in this thing Mace said. When you have every mayor every community saying 'We don't want this' and now you're going to shove seismic testing down our throats? I don't think so. Mace said she is concerned both with potential environmental damage and the possible threat to South Carolina's 20 billion tourism industry much of which centers around the coast. We have the potential to destroy that beauty off our coast with rigs that nobody wants Mace said. We've got to do something and a lawsuit might be the only way to do it.	False	False	False	True	False
Hurricane Michael roared through the Florida Panhandle last week with 155 mph winds and a storm surge that reached 14 feet killing at least 18 people in four states destroying homes and knocking down power lines serving millions of customers. Tyndall Air Force Base near Panama City Florida took a direct hit and suffered heavy damage. The flight line is devastated. Every building has severe damage. Many buildings are a complete loss according to the bases most recent storm damage update. Of particular concern were the bases F 22 Raptor aircraft the most sophisticated fighter jet in the Air Forces arsenal. The stealth fighters cost 377 million apiece if you include research and development costs and the Air Force has 183 of them in its inventory. Tyndall is home to 55 of those F 22s. The New York Times reported that 33 of the Raptors were sent to Wright Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio leaving several of the highly valuable aircraft in the path of the storm. A spokesperson for the Air Force declined to give any tallies for damaged aircraft at Tyndall saying that crews are still assessing the scale of the damage. However photos taken by passers by show several F 22s in damaged hangars. We dont yet know the full extent of the damage across Tyndall or to the F 22s in particular. Reports now indicate that most of the F 22 aircraft that remained at Tyndall survived the storm intact and with repairable damage. But the fact that expensive hardware was housed in exposed structures on the Gulf Coast illustrates how vulnerable the military is to extreme weather especially as storms like hurricanes gain a boost from climate change. It also shows that the military is on the front lines of the consequences of rising temperatures. Conflicts exacerbated by drought heat and storms are a major concern for defense planners. Military installations themselves are also at risk At least 128 bases face inundation from sea level rise. With billions of dollars of assets in harms way and more weather extremes on the horizon making and enacting disaster plans are becoming all the more critical for the military. While Hurricane Michael was the first Category 4 storm to make landfall in the Florida Panhandle on record major hurricanes have struck the region in the past. Tyndall Air Force Base spans more than 29000 acres and is home to almost 4000 active military personnel. Officials say that base staff and their families were evacuated ahead of the storm and since Michael passed no fatalities or injuries were reported. But the bases runways sit adjacent to barrier islands including the aptly named Hurricane Island and were particularly at risk for damage from extreme weather. A hangar on the base even served as a refuge for other Raptors in May as Subtropical Storm Alberto hit the region. Tyler Rogoway at The Drive wrote a compelling explanation for why all the valuable aircraft werent simply flown out of harms way At modern fighter is not a Honda Accord. You dont just hop in it and drive it around for months until you finally have to take it for a one hour oil change when the light comes on. If anything they are far more akin to high end sports cars that require a lot of expensive TLC to keep operating. The F 22 in particular is more analogous to an exotic supercar or even a high end race car than anything else. It requires dozens of hours of maintenance for every single flight hour and deep maintenance can take days or even many weeks to accomplish depending on what is needed to be done and availability of spare parts which can be scarce. The aircraft that werent removed were likely undergoing maintenance and couldnt be readied in time for transportation especially given that Hurricane Michael gained strength so fast. However given that there are so few F 22s overall the Air Force has more than 400 F 15s and more than 1000 F 16s and that Raptors are no longer being manufactured each lost or damaged F 22 presents a large loss of capability. The coastal bases that house sensitive equipment like F 22s also face hazards particularly from extreme weather. As climate change pushes average temperatures up the raw ingredients of hurricanes water temperature and air temperature also intensify. Water temperatures in the Gulf of Mexico were 3 to 5 degrees Fahrenheit higher than is typical this time of year. Michaels rapid ramp up also comports with what scientists expect from global warming. As the climate continues to warm hurricanes may intensify more rapidly just before striking land making hurricane forecasting more difficult wrote Massachusetts Institute of Technology climate scientist Kerry Emanuel in a 2017 paper in the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society. For its part the military has been blunt about the risks posed by climate change describing it as a threat multiplier. The effects of a changing climate will impact our security situation said Defense Secretary James Mattis during his confirmation hearing. The military assembled an adaptation roadmap in 2014 chalking out how they plan to contend with climate change. Plans include raising coastal infrastructure protecting vulnerable supply chains and increasing disaster training. And the head of the National Guard Air Force Gen. Joseph Lengyel told Voxs Alex Ward last week Theres a lot of storms coming our way. Whatever the reason we have to be ready to deal with them. However Lengyel waffled on humanitys role in shaping the climate behind these storms. I believe the climate is changing. I dont know why he said. However as Hurricane Michael showed theres a vast gulf between acknowledging climate change and adequately preparing for it. Either there was a plan in place to deal with an unprecedented storm at Tyndall and it wasnt followed or there wasnt one and were already seeing the consequences.	False	True	False	True	False
How Luxury Hotels And Restaurants In Developing Countries Fight Food Waste If you've never considered what happens to the remnants of the fully loaded plate of enchiladas chips and salsa you grab from the buffet at an all inclusive Mexico resort you might be in for a shock. Mexico's Velas Vallarta produces a veritable ton of food waste each day but rather than dumping it into the trash the Puerto Vallarta resort delivers roughly 700 pounds of it each morning to a hog farmer down the road to use as feed. Much of what doesn't go to the pigs is composted on site and then used to fertilize the resort's verdant gardens. Ultimately the combo of food waste leaves and grass trimmings are returned to the soil while diverting waste from Mexico's overloaded landfills. Compost is also shared with staff for use at their homes. The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that nearly a quarter of food purchases in hotels and restaurants are simply thrown away. While food waste is a hot topic in the U.S. it's a particular challenge in low income nations where food is sometimes a scarce resource to begin with. Some resorts are doing their part to address it even when governmental regulations and a general lack of awareness make that difficult. In Brazil food safety regulations prevent restaurants from giving away food yet 52 million Brazilians are still threatened by food insecurity according to 2014 research by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics. Meanwhile the country produces almost more food waste than any other nation with 40000 tons wasted each day according to research by the Brazilian Company of Agriculture. That amount of food could feed 19 million people. But in the booming city of Rio de Janeiro a luxury hotel has been turning trash into treasure for more than a decade long before food waste was at the forefront of anyone's mind. The glamorous Belmond Copacabana Palace you know the place where you might see Madonna or Mick Jagger hanging off the balcony was among the country's first hotels to implement a restaurant waste management system in 2008. Today Copacabana Palace recycles more than 1800 gallons of cooking oil and composts nearly all of its food waste but not before crushing it to reduce its volume by 88 percent. For many hotels simple knowledge of the issue has resulted in greater observance from staff and ultimately less waste. When Soneva Fushi a luxury resort in the Maldives conducted a comprehensive food waste audit in 2016 employees sorted weighed and recorded waste for a full week ultimately establishing exactly how much food was wasted per guest down to the gram. I think part of the benefit of a detailed audit like this is that it increases everyone's mindfulness about what they are doing with food says Gordon Jackson the manager of the resort's Waste to Wealth initiative. This has really helped everybody throughout the food and beverage team and the organization as a whole just to think about what they are doing. Since the audit the resort has seen a 50 percent reduction in the amount of waste sent to compost. While it's easier for large hotels and resorts to fund audits and enlist comprehensive waste management systems smaller properties have found low cost ways to reduce their environmental footprint too. When Anita Ritter opened her Island Hideout resort in Koh Yao Noi Thailand a year and a half ago she was shocked by how challenging waste management was on her small sleepy island but a few innovative ideas have brought the resort's food waste to almost zero. Ritter composts much of her property's organic waste to use as fertilizer but she's found uses for compost byproducts too. Compost juice sometimes called bokashi gets a new life as a cleaning fluid used at the resort. It is a very efficient cleaner for clogged drains perfect to clean toilets and sinks and is a very good odor remover she says. Leftover Kaffir limes used in the property's homemade limeade are repurposed in cleaning products. It helps give other islanders something to think about Ritter explains. As we use and reuse things it gives us some social engagement status. In May I experienced one hotel's efforts firsthand as I stood on the roof at ITC Maurya a hotel in Delhi. It was more than 100 degrees outside and flies swarmed above vats of leftover naan and curry from the hotel's five restaurants including Bukhara arguably the world's most famous Indian restaurant. Next to the putrid mix stood a stainless steel tank full of in a sense money all in the form of decaying rotting food. That pricy leftover food the hotel produces more than 1300 pounds of it per day was in the process of being converted to biogas a methane and carbon dioxide mix that's a result of decomposing food. Ultimately the resulting biogas powers the staff cafeteria. The hotel also collects around 100 pounds of waste from the community each day using the same process to convert it into fuel. ITC Maurya's BioUrja plant was a more significant investment than reusing lime peels and bokashi. The plant which consists of a giant digester a pressure vessel scrubbers and an automation panel was installed in June 2016 and cost around 45 lakh or roughly 65000. Still the hotel expects the project to break even in about four years. In the meantime the digester will chug along reducing waste one bowl of leftover dal at a time.	False	False	False	False	False
Trumps recently installed EPA chief dismissed a study from his own department's scientists about the dangers of climate change and then admitted he never even read the study in the first place. The study produced by EPA scientists andpublished in the journal Nature Climate Change concluded that climate change will affect 22 major sectors in the United States including human health infrastructure and agriculture and that the damages in some sectors are estimated to range in the hundreds of billions of US dollars annually by the end of the century if we do nothing and allow carbon emissions to remain high. But EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler a former coal lobbyist and a pro pollution apologist doesn't care. Just because our scientists publish something in a journal doesnt mean that thats agency policy or all the other scientists at the agency agree with that particular study Wheeler told Reuters. But Wheeler's quick dismissal of the report was followed up by an admission that he had no idea what it actually said. I have not read that article I just saw a news a clip about it but I haven't read it and I haven't talked to the scientist that wrote it Wheeler said. Wheeler was appointed to head the EPA after Trumps first scandal plagued EPA chief Scott Pruitt was ousted. And Wheeler's approach ignoring science in favor of industry and pollution is a perfect reflection of Trump's shameful approach to climate issues. The administration and its officials regularly disregard the scientific consensus about the harms of climate change in order to justify rolling back regulations and trashing initiatives designed to make the world cleaner and safer. Trump himself once infamously promoted the false conspiracy theory that climate change is a hoax from the Chinese government. Currently Trump is trying to create a senior level government panel that would oppose the scientific facts of climate change and instead promote baseless propaganda from pro pollution crackpots. Most U.S. government agencies are refusing to participate in the project. However Trump is still receiving plenty of help from congressional Republicans who refuse to take the climate crisis seriously. Senate Republicans have relentlessly made false and disingenuous attacks on the Green New Deal a sweeping Democratic proposal to help stop climate change before it's too late while also creating jobs and protecting vulnerable communities. And in the House Rep. Thomas Massie R KY made a viral fool of himself by attacking former Secretary of State John Kerry after he tried to raise concerns about how climate change would harm national security. Climate change is real. It is a threat to America and to all of humanity. But Trump and his fellow Republicans refuse to acknowledge reality and they certainly can't be bothered to read scientific reports about it. Published with permission of The American Independent.	False	False	False	True	False
GRETA Thunberg has been snubbed for the Nobel Peace Prize which has instead been awarded to Ethiopia's Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed for ending the 20 year Eritrea conflict. Bookies had suggested the teen climate campaigner was the front runner for the illustrious honour after she launched a furious tirade at the United Nations. But the Nobel Institute gave the award to the Ethiopian leader for ending one of Africa's longest running conflicts. Within months of coming to office in 2018 the 43 year old signed a Joint Declaration of Peace and Friendship with Eritrean Prime Minister Isaias Afwerki. He was also praised for his domestic reforms including releasing tens of thousands of political prisoners and allowed previously banned opposition groups. The prize is 730000 and will be formally awarded in Oslo in December. Greta first came to prominence after launching a school strike that has inspired millions of kids to take Fridays off to protest about climate change. The 16 year old Swede started the Fridays for Future movement to demand action be taken to combat global warming and is currently taking a year off school to focus on campaigning. Greta started the strike alone outside the Swedish parliament in Stockholm last August and has gone on to become one of the most recognisable faces in world affairs. The enmity between the two countries that occupy the Horn of Africa came after a border war fought between 1998 and 2000. The two countries disputed their border in the scrubby and desolate plains of Badime. Around 80000 soldiers and civilians died in the war which drained the resources of the two countries. The total cost to Ethiopia of the war and was believed to be around 3 billion while Eritrea was force to conscript 300000 soldiers a tenth of its population. After the fighting ended a stalemate remained as international mediation efforts were made to resolve their dispute. After Abiy took office he offered an olive branch to the Eritreans. Within weeks Eritrea's longtime leader visibly moved visited Ethiopia's capital Addis Ababa and communications and transport links were restored. For the first time in two decades people could long divided families made tearful reunions. The improving relations led to the lifting of United Nations sanctions on Eritrea one of the world's most reclusive nations. She already has an honour to her name after winning Amnesty International's highest Ambassadors of Conscience human rights award last month. Climate change is an issue which is strongly related to security and peace. In her UN speech Greta blasted governments for thinking only of money as she said the world was sleepwalking into a climate catastrophe. She raged People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing we are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and the fairy tale of endless economic growth. How dare you! The teens fiery speech was hailed by millions with climate change activists taking to the streets in huge protests around the world. But head activism has led to criticism from from world leaders and others who allege she is being manipulated. Vladimir Putin took aim at the teenager branding her poorly informed and saying she was telling developing countries they should keep living in poverty. The Russian president claimed its hypocritical to lecture poorer countries on the environmental impact of their bids to become more developed like the West. No one has explained to Greta that the modern world is complex and different and ... people in Africa or in many Asian countries want to live at the same wealth level as in Sweden. Go and explain to developing countries why they should continue living in poverty and not be like Sweden. Putin said young people who paid attention to environmental issues should be supported. Im sure that Greta is a kind and very sincere girl he said. But adults must do everything not to bring teenagers and children into some extreme situations. Donald Trump also took aim sarcastically mocking her as a very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future. French President Emmanuel Macron also warned her radical climate change stance risks depressing an entire generation. And some individuals were even more scathing with sick trolls branding her the little girl with mental problems and others suggesting shes not sexy enough in vile rants.	False	True	True	True	False
HAZARD Ky. AP A coalition of left leaning states and environmental groups are vowing to fight the Trump administration's move to kill an Obama era effort to limit carbon emissions from coal fired power plants. Speaking Monday in the coal mining state of Kentucky Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt said he would be issuing a new set of rules overriding the Clean Power Plan the centerpiece of President Barack Obama's drive to curb global climate change. The war on coal is over Pruitt declared adding that no federal agency should ever use its authority to declare war on any sector of our economy. It was not immediately clear if Pruitt would seek to issue a new rule without congressional approval which Republicans had criticized the Obama administration for doing. Pruitt's rule wouldn't become final for months and is then highly likely to face a raft of legal challenges. New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman was among those who said they will sue. The Trump Administration's persistent and indefensible denial of climate change and their continued assault on actions essential to stemming its increasing devastation is reprehensible and I will use every available legal tool to fight their dangerous agenda said Schneiderman a Democrat. For Pruitt getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma. Pruitt was among about two dozen attorney generals who sued to stop Obama's 2014 push to limit carbon emissions stymieing the limits from ever taking effect. Closely aligned with the oil and gas industry in his home state Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man made emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change. President Donald Trump who appointed Pruitt and shares his skepticism of established climate science promised to kill the Clean Power Plan during the 2016 campaign as part of his broader pledge to revive the nation's struggling coal mines. In his order Tuesday Pruitt is expected to declare that the Obama era rule exceeded federal law by setting emissions standards that power plants could not reasonably meet. Pruitt appeared at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell at Whayne Supply in Hazard Kentucky a company that sells coal mining supplies. The store's owners have been forced to lay off about 60 percent of its workers in recent years. While cheering the demise of the Clean Power Plan as a way to stop the bleeding McConnell conceded most of those lost jobs are never coming back. A lot of damage has been done said McConnell a Kentucky Republican. This doesn't immediately bring everything back but we think it stops further decline of coal fired plants in the United States and that means there will still be some market here. Obama's plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. The rule dictated specific emission targets for states based on power plant emissions and gave officials broad latitude to decide how to achieve reductions. The Supreme Court put the plan on hold last year following legal challenges by industry and coal friendly states. Even so the plan helped drive a recent wave of retirements of coal fired plants which are also being squeezed by low cost natural gas and renewable power. In the absence of stricter federal regulations curbing greenhouse gas emissions many states have issued their own mandates promoting energy conservation. The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants. On Thursday Trump nominated former coal industry lobbyist Andrew Wheeler to serve as Pruitt's top deputy at EPA one of several recent political appointees at the agency with direct ties to the fossil fuel interests. The president announced earlier this year that he will pull the United States out of the landmark Paris climate agreement. Nearly 200 countries have committed to combat global warming by reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming. This president has tremendous courage Pruitt said Monday. He put America first and said to the rest of the world we are going to say no and exit the Paris Accord. That was the right thing to do. Despite the rhetoric about saving coal government statistics show that coal mines currently employ only about 52000 workers nationally a modest 4 percent uptick since Trump became president. Those numbers are dwarfed by the jobs created by building such clean power infrastructure as wind turbines and solar arrays. Trump is not just ignoring the deadly cost of pollution he's ignoring the clean energy deployment that is rapidly creating jobs across the country said Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club. Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker reported from Washington. Follow him at This story has been corrected to show the percentage of coal jobs created under Trump was 4 percent.	True	False	False	True	True
The people who live there are at risk of lead contamination at every turn. It's in their drinking water and it's in their soil. More than one thousand people were forced to evacuate according to Debbie Chizewer at Northwestern Law School who has worked very closely with the affected residents. A local school was shut down and a public housing complex was also evacuated after soil tests showed lead and arsenic contamination levels 228 times the amount the Environmental Protection Agency considers potentially hazardous to children. It was the first superfund site EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has visited making a trip there Wednesday and the agency said he was the first administrator to visit this particular site. Pruitt visited to discuss cleanup and hear directly from East Chicago residents affected by contamination in their community the agency said in a press release. At a press conference local officials praised Pruitt for visiting the site. The community is what's a called a legacy contamination site. It was listed on the National Priorities List of the worst contaminated hazardous waste sites in the country in 2009. The site includes part of the former USS Lead facility along with nearby commercial municipal and residential areas including the West Calumet public housing complex. Barbara Bolling Williams state president of the Indiana branch of the NAACP said she is cautiously optimistic following Pruitt's visit but added that his visit comes with the threat of a skinnier EPA budget fewer regulations and rumors Chicago's regional EPA office could be shut down looms in the background. The Trump administration's proposed budget calls for a 31 cut to the budget including cuts to the agency's environmental justice program. The program is intended to support poor often minority communities with severe environmental challenges. One week ago the local chapter of the NAACP said it invited Pruitt to a roundtable discussion on environmental justice which happened Wednesday morning. In attendance were residents NAACP national President Cornell Williams Brooks and community members. Pruitt skipped that event and instead invited a group to a meeting of his own at a local school that was shut down as a result of the lead contamination in the community. Bolling Williams who was invited to Pruitt's meeting said Pruitt listened to all of our concerns but he did not offer any solutions. She said her organization wants to see the EPA do more to protect the East Chicago community. The NAACP presented Pruitt with a list of demands including a call for an executive order that would include a greater commitment to communities like East Chicago. We need them to commit to adjusting cleanup plan for the site. Instead of digging up two feet of contaminated soil for disposal digging up eight feet. We want that soil to be disposed of properly so as not to cause further contamination we want continued testing of the soil and ground water in this area and a commitment to ensure the residents exposed to the lead get the physical and mental health care they need for the rest of their life. That includes financial help to make sure that happens. EPA spokesman J.P. Freire told CNN in an email Forget about the politics. Administrator Pruitt was working for environmental justice by meeting with the real residents affected by lead contamination and by committing to get results. In its press release the agency laid out the accomplishments of its cleanup effort under Pruitt East Chicago is receiving 16.5 million in EPA State Revolving Fund SRF funding for drinking water infrastructure upgrades. EPA the state and the city are working together to coordinate lead service line replacement with cleanup work to expedite completion of the work and minimize disruptions. EPA provided 54 homes with filters and bottled water while Superfund work was underway at those properties in Zones 2 and 3. This year Indiana will distribute filters to all residents in Zones 2 and 3. The Natural Resources Defense Council told CNN that Pruitt has yet to respond to its request for more EPA assistance and oversight in the lead problem in East Chicago's drinking water. Those demands include Oversight of East Chicago's ongoing attempts to improve its corrosion control treatment expanded blood lead level testing of children under age 7 bottled water and home water filtration systems to residents throughout the city and testing the city's drinking water to determine the extent of the contamination. During his visit Pruitt provided brief comments at a press conference in East Chicago but quickly exited without answering questions from reporters. The Agency's press release quoted Pruitt saying I'm focused on getting EPA back to the basics of protecting human health and the environment and one of my top priorities is delivering real results for the people of East Chicago.' Pruitt went on Since I was sworn in as administrator funding has been secured for drinking water infrastructure upgrades in East Chicago filters and bottled water have been provided to residents and cleanup of contaminated soil has resumed.	False	True	False	True	False
As international leaders gathered in New York for this weeks meeting of the United Nations General Assembly they got another taste of the Trump Administrations leadership style. It can be summed up in one word confusion. Sometimes it appears to be a result of ineptitude other times it appears to be tactical. Then came the election of Donald Trump. After months of intrigue about what he might do Trump announced in June that the United States plans to withdraw from the accord unless we can re enter on terms that are more favorable to our country. It seemed that Trump left the door open to reversing his decision. Recent events have offered a good opportunity for Trump to do so. Steve Bannon the senior advisor who reportedly pressed Trump to withdraw from the accord has left the White House. Hurricanes Harvey and Irma showed with unprecedented fury that global warming is putting Americans in greater jeopardy by making storms more destructive. And the current convergence of world leaders on New York gives them another opportunity to lobby Trump to reverse his position. As last weekend began the Wall Street Journal reported The Trump administration is considering staying in the Paris agreement to fight climate change under the right conditions offering to re engage in the international deal The White House shot down the story by responding that the presidents intentions have not changed. It was the latest example of the bewilderment Trump has created about whether or not the worlds second biggest source of climate altering pollution plans to do anything about it. First with his seemingly provisional withdrawal decision last June Trump used one of his deal making gambits. He announced an extreme position but hinted he was willing to negotiate. In reality there is no deal to be made and no interest among other nations to reopen an agreement that took the world 20 years to achieve. It appears that Trumps real purpose was to please his base while blunting criticism with the hint that he might change his mind. Second it is clear even now that Trump and his people do not understand the Paris accord. They seem not to have read it. It calls for voluntary commitments from nations to cut their greenhouse gas emissions. If Trump feels the climate action plan President Obama submitted under the Paris accord was somehow disadvantageous to the country he could simply submit a new plan. Instead Trump hopes to show that he is standing up to the world community on behalf of Americas interests. Tillerson exhibited his lack of understanding when he said Sunday if you look at those targets and terms of the Paris climate accord they were just really out of balance for the two largest economies. He presumably was talking about China and the United States who are also the worlds two largest carbon polluters. However the commitments that China and the United States submitted under the Paris accord reflected a historic bilateral agreement that the two nations announced in November 2014. On Sept. 3 2016 President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China jointly reaffirmed their commitments to the Paris deal offering a rare display of harmony as the New York Times put it. So Tillersons perception that the Paris accord is not good for China or the United States was not shared by the two nations leaders. Nor I assume is it shared by the hundreds of businesses and investors who urged Trump to remain in the pact. Other history contradicts the idea that the United States signed onto an out of balance deal. In 1997 most nations signed the Kyoto Protocol an agreement under which developed but not developing nations committed to reduce their carbon pollution. The premise was that the industrial economies were most responsible for the greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and that developing countries needed to continue using fossil fuels for the immediate future to grow their economies. The U.S. Senate whose advice and consent was necessary before President Clinton could ratify the Protocol signaled that it would not concur. It approved a resolution saying that it would not consent to any agreement that did not also include greenhouse gas reductions by developing nations. As a result President Clinton did not bother to submit the Protocol to the Senate and in March 2001 President Bush announced officially that the U.S. would not participate. Third Trumps conditional willingness to reengage in international climate action is belied by the fact that he has laid waste to the federal governments ability to influence Americas carbon pollution. The United States would return to the table with little or nothing to offer in regard to our own substantial emissions.	False	False	False	False	True
The City of Lights Paris has been illuminated in recent days by cars set alight by thousands of protesting Yellow Vestslargely middle class people who earn their living by driving or who commute to get to work. The cause of their ire is a scheduled 25 cents per gallon increase in gas taxes and about 10 cents on diesel to fight climate change. French President Macron deeply unpopular just reversed course on the new green taxParisians are already paying about 7.06 per gallon for gasoline almost half of that in taxes. If Paris streets burned over a proposed25 cents per gallon climate change tax imagine the global conflagration over a 49 per gallon tax. Thats what a United Nations special climate report calls for in 12 years with a carbon tax of 5500 per tonequal to 49 per gallon of gasoline or diesel. Thats about 100 times todays average state and federal motor fuels tax. By 2100 the U.N. estimates that a carbon tax of 27000 per ton is needed240 per gallonto limit global warming to no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius. Of course that isnt going to happen. The economic wreckage of such a punitive tax would plunge the global economy into a permanent depressionand thats assuming politicians could enact such huge tax increases over the will of their voters. Keep in mind that the unrest in France was triggered by a looming 25 cent hike which is a little less than 10 more in taxes than French drivers already pay. To meet the 49 per gallon tax hike recommended by the U.N. fuel taxes in France would have to go up 17 fold. The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed. They dont earn enough to be part of the elite unconcerned with fuel taxes but they work hard enough that they dont qualify for the generous welfare benefits handed out to the nations poor and to newly arrived immigrants from Africa and the Middle East. Here in America Republicans in Congress passed a resolution against carbon taxes over the summer while Democrats embraced the concept in their party platform. Some incoming members of the new Democratic majority in the House are calling to create a select committee to map out a Green New Deal that would move the U.S. toward using 100 renewable energy for the electric grid while guaranteeing jobs for everyone. In the meantime opinion polls indicate that 54 of Americans do not believe global warming will cause major problems within their lifetimes. So how do climate activists get their way? Some openly talk of imposing authoritarian governance to override democratic institutions. Former NASA climate researcher James Hansen suggested in 2007 that the democratic process does not work. Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of deniers. Those who see climate change as a dire and urgent threat have some work to do to convince voters in the Western democracies to give up their way of life in exchange for unspecified benefits of a slightly less warm worldand thats assuming China India and over a billion people in Africa can be convinced not to try to pull themselves out of povertysomething that may only be done with greater use of fossil fuels. Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission. An example of the former can be seen in the new National Climate Assessment. The reports first chapter lists recent natural disasters citing this summers deadly Carr Fire in California as an example. But while the report seeks to link wildfire to climate change it glosses over the real reason fires have grown in intensity and size the 30 years of increased environmental restrictions on logging brush clearance and preventive burns that caused a massive and dangerous fuel buildupa problem that was predicted years ago and has nothing to do with global warming. The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg. Here were told that the U.S. economy will take a 10 hit by 2100 unless we reduce our carbon emissions. Two problems though the authors assume the worst case and least likely scenario with average temperatures more than 14 degrees Fahrenheit hotter by 2100 and they derive two thirds of their economic losses estimate by claiming a large amount of premature deaths due to the hotter temperatures. The latter claim is highly problematic as death rates in regions far hotter than in the U.S. arent meaningfully different when accounting for the standard of living. Why? People adapt rather easily. This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN but it is far from sound science or even good economics. The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation. And its these three things wealth growth and technology which allows humans to thrive on planet Earth not 240 per gallon fuel taxes imposed by an elite that cares not for the masses.	True	False	False	True	True
Kirsti McCluer Reuters Golfers play in North Bonneville Washington last fall as the Eagle Creek wildfire burns. The U.N.'sIntergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said the world must drastically cut greenhouse gas emissions to avoid climate disaster. The only force that I know of on the planet that can deliver innovation as quickly as we need it is the free enterprise system said former Rep. Bob Inglis R S.C. now the executive director of RepublicEn a group urging Republicans to support a carbon tax. The report based on more than 6000 scientific references found that world governments have just 12 years to cut planet warming gases 45 percent at a time when humanitys CO2 footprint is rapidly rising and fossil fuel emissions are hitting an all time high. By 2050 emissions need to hit net zero. Failing to do so would be cataclysmic. The IPCC pegged the price of damage caused by 1.5 degrees of warming at 54 trillion a figure that soars to 69 trillion at 2 degrees Celsius or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit of temperature rise. There is near universal agreement that putting a price on carbon dioxide likely through a tax is key to scaling back emissions in much the same way levies on tobacco and alcohol are meant to offset those products societal costs. Last yearSens. Sheldon Whitehouse D R.I. and Brian Schatz D Hawaii and Reps. Earl Blumenauer D Ore. and David Cicilline D R.I.introduced companion carbon tax billsin Congress. In July Reps. Carlos Curbelo R Fla. and Brian Fitzpatrick R Pa. proposed a lower carbon tax earning plaudits for breaking with the Republican orthodoxy calling the very basics of climate change science into question. Its totally unrealistic said Jennifer Francis a research professor at Rutgers University. Were going to need to make a wide range of course corrections to have a hope of achieving 1.5 and also prepare for larger impacts than were already experiencing. Andrew Dessler a climate scientist at Texas AM University cast doubt on the possibility of halting human caused temperature at the 1 degree Celsius average global increase the planet has already experienced. Though he said a carbon tax high enough could reduce emissions arbitrarily fast the result would be soaring energy prices rather than what we want which is a switch to renewables. Asked during an IPCC press conference on Sunday night if carbon pricing could radically overhaul the global economy in the next decade two IPCC authors started to laugh. James Skeaa co chair of an IPCC working group said it was one among that portfolio of instruments that can be used but could not serve as a panacea. A number of insurgent left wing Democrats running in the 2018 midterms including star New York City congressional candidate Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are coalescing around a so called Green New Deal a loose set of proposals to spend trillions in federal dollars on renewable energy projects coastal fortifications and home weatherization retrofits.Polling released last month shows swelling support for a federal policy guaranteeing a high wage job in a green industry to anyone who wants one. Last month California became the biggest state to pass alaw requiring 100 percent clean electricityby 2045. In a surprise move Gov. Jerry Brown D also signed an executive order mandating the changessweep extend beyond utilities to the entire economy including vehicles the nations largest source of carbon pollution. Curbelo and Fitzpatrick did not respond to requests for comment Monday. Nor did the oil giant Exxon Mobil Corp. which spent decades financing a network of climate change misinformation before announcing its support for a carbon tax or the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative a corporate consortium that advocates for what it calls practical solutions to climate change. But for some conservative climate hawks the reality of the IPCC report hit home. Jerry Taylor a former climate denier who in recent years became the poster boy for Republican climate realism said he sticks by a carbon tax as the best solution but believes keeping warming within 1.5 degrees is unrealistic at this point regardless of policy. A steep enough global economy wide price on carbon could do it but thats not likely to happen said Taylor the president of the libertarian Niskanen Center. Hence the 1.5 C target is aspirational not functional. Over lunch at a conference last week Flint staked out his opposition to the Obama administrations use of executive authority to regulate carbon dioxide emissions. A former Trump transition team official he described himself as a sherpa for Interior Secretary Ryan Zinkes confirmation process. Now he says hes trying to get politicians to catch up with the science. Asked where the line is between what critics said was the previous administrations federal overreach and attempting to stave off the worst of what the IPCC predicted Flint went quiet for a while.	True	True	False	True	True
One hardly knows where to begin in taking apart an argument that is literally filled with errors fallacies inconsistencies and non sequiturs. The essay by Nathan Schneider appearing in the May 31 issue of America titled Trumps war on the environment is a war on the young and the unborn makes the incredible case that withdrawing from the Paris agreement constitutes a war on future generations tantamount to genocide. No matter that historically the environmentalist movement has been closely allied with the population control movement literally waging a war on the unborn through its promotion of vigorous anti natality programs and abortion on demand. Mr. Schneider makes no effort to conceal his own apocalyptic vision of climate change. Without the Paris accord he claims mankind is a species embracing its own suicidal fragmentation. The climate will turn to chaos because Mr. Trump has issued the command that we are to proceed with the destruction of the planet. How a person can have such unshakable certainty in the outcome of complex future events is truly remarkable. The inability to entertain even the slightest doubt that carbon dioxide emissions will necessarily lead to climate Armageddon borders on meteorological Fundamentalism. To judge a particular accord as contrary to the nations interests on the other hand is hardly a war on the environment. Perhaps Mr. Schneider should consider what a war on the environment would actually look like. Pouring toxic waste into rivers filling the air with noxious fumes polluting forests and open countrysidethese are signs of a war on the environment and sadly they can still be found in certain nations. Carbon dioxide on the other hand is non toxic. It is fundamental to the life of plants and a necessary component of photosynthesis. Growers regularly pump CO2 into greenhouses raising levels to three times that of the natural environment to produce stronger healthier plants. Current levels of carbon dioxide concentration in the environment are substantially lower than they have been during earlier periods in the planets history. Without human intervention the concentration of CO2 has climbed as high as 7000 parts per million ppm whereas at present the concentration is just over 400 ppm. Some such as UN climate scientist Dr. Indur Goklany who has previously represented the United States on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC have defended rising CO2 levels as a good thing for humanity. Goklany has argued that the rising level of carbon dioxide in the earths atmosphere is currently net beneficial for both humanity and the biosphere generally. The benefits are real whereas the costs of warming are uncertain he said. During his presidential campaign Donald Trump promised Americans that if elected he would make the United States energy independent and get out of the Paris climate deal. The fact that a president keeps his promises is usually considered a good thing. In point of fact Mr. Schneiders issue isnt just with the president it is with the nation that elected him. According to a recent study by the Pew Research Center a majority of Americans dont believe in manmade global warming. That doesnt put them at war with the environment and much less at war with the young and the unborn. Maybe they just want an America that is able to think and act for itself rather than one that bows to ever fad espoused by globalist elites.	True	True	False	True	False
Forget the Golden State. California should be called the Smoggy State. Eight of the USA's 10most polluted cities in terms of ozone pollution are in California according to the American Lung Association's annual State of the Air report released Wednesday. The Los AngelesLong Beach area took the dubious distinction of being the nation's most ozone polluted cityas it has for nearly the entire 19 year history of the report. Overall the report said about133 million Americans more than four of 10 live with unhealthful levels of air pollution placing them at risk for premature death and other serious health effects such as lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm. We still have a lot to do in this country to clean up air pollution said Lyndsay Moseley Alexander director of the Association's Healthy Air Campaign. The report looked at pollution levels from 2014 to 2016. Ozone pollution was worse overall in this report than it was in last year's report. Bakersfield Calif. wasin second place for ozone pollution. Other California cities on the list include Fresno Sacramento and San Diego. The only non California metro areas in the top 10 list were Phoenix and New York City. Of the 10 most polluted cities seven cities did worse in this year's report including Los Angeles and the New York City metro area. More President Trump directs EPA to ease air quality rules he says suffocates industry Near record setting heat from our changing climate has resulted in dangerous levels of ozone in many cities across the country making ozone an urgent health threat for millions of Americans Lung Association President and CEO Harold P. Wimmersaid. Smog forms on warm sunny days and is made worse fromchemicals that exit vehicle tailpipes and from power plant and industrial smokestacks.Warmer temperatures make ozone more likely to form. This adds to the evidence that a changing climate makes it harder to reduce ozone pollution and protect human health Alexandersaid Bakersfield took the top spot in a list of cities with another variety of air pollution small particulate matter aka soot.Increased heat changes in climate patterns drought and wildfires many related to climate change contributed to the high number of days with unhealthy particulate matter. SinceCalifornia is known for its strict environmental regulations why are so many cities from the state typically on this list?It's because the state would be far worse off without its strict laws on tailpipe pollution and eliminating coal fired power plants. California has done more than any other state to counteract air pollution the Lung Association said. With this report the Lung Association also calls out Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency EPA for ongoing threats to the nations air quality including steps to roll back or weaken enforcement of the Clean Air Act. EPA administrator Scott Pruitt hastaken many steps to roll back or put in loopholes to the Clean Air Act Alexander said adding thattheassociation is concerned and we will continueto fight forhealthy air she said. Some good news in the report was that particulate pollution generally continued to improve in 2014 16 the report said. This was true for both short term particulate pollution and for year round particulate pollution. For year round particle pollution Fairbanks Alaska was the most polluted city. TheLung Association also lists the nation's cleanest cities meaning ones that experience no high ozone or high particulate pollution days. The nation's cleanest cities are Bellingham Wash. Burlington Vt. Casper Wyo. Honolulu Melbourne Fla. and Wilmington N.C.	False	True	False	True	False
US President Donald Trump is taking California to task for the management of its forests and dams blaming red tape for the devastating forest fires and drought plaguing the bluest of blue states and threatening to withhold aid. Speaking at a White House address on Tuesday Trumpwas shocked that Californians weren't using the water contained by their dams to put out the fires and irrigate their fields. We have so much water they could actually water some of it he said in disbelief. About half 48 percent of California's land is currently experiencing drought conditions which combined with high temperatures and strong winds are largely to blame for the record setting rash of fires in the state according to state fire chiefs. Trump a proud climate change skeptic attributes the fires to lousy management. He has repeatedly said the forests are too dense and need to be thinned a problem the logging industry would be happy to help with. As for the water it's Trump vs. the Delta smelt an endangered fish scientists argue can only be saved if the dammed waters are allowed to flow into the ocean instead of being used to irrigate the farms and homes of California residents. Trump wants to redistribute that water to Californians he says. Trump threatened to withhold future federal aid if Californiadoes not get on the ball implying that the state's environmental woes were its own fault. It's hard not to think there's an element of spite in this rhetoric as wealthy and influential Californians led talk of secession following Trump's 2016 election victory. Last week Trump signed a memo geared toward improving the reliable supply and delivery of water in California Oregon and Washington by streamlining environmental review and approval for water infrastructure projects. It's not a good week for the Delta smelt. Trump announced yesterday he will nominate Aurelia Skipwith a former Monsanto lawyer as director of the Fish and Wildlife Service. While she has worked for the department since 2013 environmentalists accuse her of gutting protections for migratory birds and endangered species.	False	False	False	False	False
One of the biggest legal battles over climate change is now in limbo pending a decision from the Supreme Courts chief justice who last week took the odd step of halting the lawsuit to consider a stay. The court is expected to rule Friday on whether the case which was expected to go to trial Monday can proceed. The suit Juliana v. US also known as the childrens climate lawsuit was first filed in 2015 and now includes 21 plaintiffs between the ages of 11 and 22 including Sophie Kivlehan 20 the granddaughter of the famed climate scientist James Hansen. The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate. As relief they want the government to pursue policies to keep warming in check. The trial was supposed to begin at the United States District Court in Oregon on October 29. But last week the defendant the US government asked for a stay of the case arguing the costs of litigation would put an undue burden on it. Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts granted a temporary stay and halted discovery until Wednesday to allow the plaintiffs to respond. The district court then vacated the case pending a decision from the high court. Working over the weekend the children and their lawyers filed a 103 page brief on Monday in hopes of receiving a decision from the Chief Justice before the weeks end. Now the case is back at the Supreme Court and what happens next is unclear including whether the other justices on the bench will weigh in. Several legal analysts told Vox it is extremely unusual for the Supreme Court to step in to block a legal proceeding in a lower court. Appeals from the District Court in Oregon are almost always handled by the 9th Circuit which has already declined to block the lawsuit. And one of the only other times Supreme Court has done something like this was also related to climate change. In 2016 the court stayed the Obama administrations Clean Power Plan to limit greenhouse gases from power plants pending ongoing lawsuits from states suing to block the rule from going into effect. But then the childrens lawsuit is an unusual case. The plaintiffs essentially are arguing that a safe climate is a civil right so the implications for climate change policy are huge. Though the case is in uncharted legal territory it has survived several legal challenges and motions to dismiss and lower federal courts have allowed it to proceed. Ann Carlson a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests theres something there that piques the courts interest. Its certainly a signal that the court is uncomfortable with the underlying legal theory of the Juliana case Carlson said. The federal government under Presidents Barack Obama and Donald Trump has argued the case has no merit and repeatedly sought to have it dismissed. Asked for comment the Department of Justice pointed to comments made by Jeffrey Wood a political appointee at the DOJ handling environmental cases who spoke about the Juliana case at a law conference last week. He said that the purported constitutional right that they assert simply does not exist and that the Juliana lawsuit has no legal basis. In our view the Oregon lawsuit is an unconstitutional attempt to use a single court to control the entire nations energy and climate policy Wood said adding the plaintiffs in Oregon are ignoring the fact that clean and responsible production and use of fossil fuels remains vital to the health and well being of the American people. For climate activists old and young the courts have become a last resort for pushing governments and businesses to reduce greenhouse gas emissions especially with an executive branch thats still denying climate change exists and a gridlocked Congress. There are also several ongoing climate change lawsuits filed by cities counties and a state against oil companies though the pivot points are different. The local governments are citing nuisance statutes and seeking money from oil companies to pay for damages caused by climate change whereas the childrens case is trying to force the government to enact policies to curb greenhouse gas emissions. But the prospects for the childrens climate lawsuit to succeed appear dim first because the courts tend to give wide latitude to the executive branch in these cases and second because the Supreme Courts newest Justice Brett Kavanaugh is much more skeptical of environmental regulations than his predecessor. This is just the beginning of what were likely to see from a Court that doesnt have Justice Kennedy on it anymore Carlson said.	False	False	False	False	False
CNN Republican Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis appointed the state's first chief science officer on Monday marking what he called the state's commitment to science based solutions. DeSantis appointed Thomas Frazer a biologist who has been director of the University of Florida's School of Natural Resources and Environment since 2012 and previously worked as acting director of the UF Water Institute In the new position he will coordinate Florida's research data and scientific work and make sure officials have the scientific analysis they need to tackle the state's environmental problems. Frazer's research has looked at pollution's effects on water. He's also worked on research involving climate change. He's been on the faculty advisory committee with the UF Climate Institute and served as chairman of the Climate Science Faculty Committee. Climate change will be a part of his office's mission. We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future? Frazer said. Asked whether he thought climate change was a threat to Florida DeSantis said the issue was politicized but noted that he considers sea level rise a serious threat. My environmental policy is just to do things that benefit Floridians. And the idea that you're signing up for some type of agenda I don't want to ... send a signal that that's what I'm doing because I'm not doing that DeSantis said . This is what we're going to do. We're going to do what works. DeSantis said the appointment keeps with his promise to make sound science a Florida priority. As one of Florida's leading environmental researchers Dr. Frazer understands the unique water issues facing our state and the actions we must take to solve them he said Monday. Since day one my administration has been laser focused on addressing our pressing environmental challenges. On January 10 DeSantis signed an Executive Order that pledged to secure 2.5 billion over the next four years to restore the Everglades. It created the Blue Green Algae Task Force and promised to work with local communities to invest in green infrastructure. It also created the chief science officer position. Frazer will have his work cut out for him. In July Scott declared a state of emergency for several counties to help local governments deal with an unprecedented toxic algal bloom that killed thousands of marine animals including dolphins and manatees. The bloom which affected more than 100 miles of Florida shoreline also sent people to the doctor with respiratory problems and eye issues. below sea level by 2100 Sea level rise alone is projected to outpace the global average for Southeast Florida. The region could see nearly a foot more of water in the short term. There's also a chance that more than 346 billion in property value will bebelow sea level by 2100 studies show Frazer said he's honored by the appointment. Our environment and waterways make Florida unique he said. I look forward to working with the governor and the Department of Environmental Protection on ways we can use sound science and research to improve our state's water quality and protect the environment.	False	False	False	False	False
Not that surprising except this was a Senate committee field hearing challenging the position shared by President Donald Trump and many Republicans in Congress that climate change isn't real. The site of the hearing just four miles from Trump's weekend getaway in Palm Beach was clearly intended to send a signal Much of Florida's coastline could one day be underwater including some of the President's own prized properties. Today we sit at ground zero of the impacts of climate change in the US Florida Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson said. And while there are still some who continue to deny climate change is real South Florida offers proof that it is real and it's an issue we're going to be grappling with for decades to come. Data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration show that Trump's Mar a Lago Club and his condominiums in Hollywood Florida would be partially submerged if sea level rose three feet by the end of the century. Already Hollywood experiences more incidents of tidal flooding. NOAA itself in a recent report raised the specter of millions of coastal residents in the United States especially along the low lying East Coast being displaced by coastal flooding. The agency outlined how sea levels could rise by at least four to five feet by century's end engulfing numerous coastal communities or making flooding so frequent as to render them uninhabitable. What we thought was extremely rare large floods invading coastal cities on a regular basis is becoming more and more probable said William Sweet an oceanographer at NOAA and the report's lead author. The gap between our infrastructure and the global sea level is narrowing A recent study published in Nature concluded that with the acceleration of ice melt in Antarctica sea levels could rise to six feet by 2100. At that point Trump's golf course at Doral Florida and several properties at Sunny Isles Beach would also be under water. The fact that Trump's own properties are vulnerable to the impact of climate change is paradoxical given that the EPA is poised to undo President Barack Obama's plan to cut greenhouse gas emissions from coal fired power plants. In a now infamous 2012 tweet Trump claimed that global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing non competitive. The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non competitive. Donald J. Trump November 6 2012 The Senate Commerce Science and Transportation Committee hearing was conducted by Nelson the panel's ranking member but it was authorized by Republican Sen. John Thune of South Dakota the committee's chairman who has acknowledged human activity is responsible for climate change. Climate change is not just a threat to our planet's future it's a threat to our communities today. Thanks for this hearing. pic.twitter.comixO6VhRhrO Rep. Ted Deutch April 10 2017 Thune told Fox News anchor Chris Wallace in a 2014 interview for example Well look climate change is occurring it's always occurring Chris. There are a number of factors that contribute to that including human activity. The question is what are we going to do about it and at what cost? Trump has proposed slashing the EPA budget by a third and eliminating many climate change programs entirely. But when it comes to his own property in Ireland a golf course and resort in the small town of Doonbeg the President took a more proactive approach. He proposed to build a wall to fight coastal erosion by the course's sand dunes which eroded after heavy storms in 2014. After several attempts to gain approval the President refiled an application in December 2016 and is still waiting to get an authorization from the local county council. For many coastal communities the problems have already begun. Flooding and high winds are more frequent said Sweet the NOAA oceanographer. Hurricane Sandy broke through the sea walls of several homes near Mar a Lago in 2012 and Palm Beach County had to restore more than 20 acres of eroded seashore. Miami meanwhile is investing millions of dollars to raise the level of its properties its roads and water systems as protection against flooding. Other cities like Norfolk Virginia and Charleston South Carolina that are at risk of extreme flooding are also trying to deal with the issue. Christina DeConcini director of government affairs for the environmental group World Resources Institute said the US needs a fact based approach for how to address this clear and present danger to America's infrastructure homes and businesses. What won't solve the problem is putting our heads in the Florida sand while streets and basements flood around us she said in a statement. Palm Beach County Commissioner Steven Abrams downplayed the political aspects of the Senate committee hearing in a statement Friday. Sea level rise and coastal flooding driven by climate change pose real significant risks to our residents and should not be politicized he said.	False	False	False	False	False
BISMARCK N.D. AP A federal judge ruled Wednesday that the Dakota Access oil pipeline can continue operating while a study is completed to assess its environmental impact on an American Indian tribe. U.S. District Judge James Boasbergs decision will come as a blow to the Standing Rock Sioux who have argued that an oil spill from the pipeline under Lake Oahe from which the tribe draws its water could have a detrimental effect on the tribal community. Todays decision is a disappointing continuation of a historic pattern Other people get all the profits and the tribes get all the risk and harm said Jan Hasselman an Earthjustice attorney representing the tribe in an ongoing federal lawsuit through which Standing Rock and three other tribes still hope to shut down the pipeline. Boasberg found that it is likely the Army Corps of Engineers will be able to justify previous decisions made while permitting the pipeline. The Corps must simply connect the dots he said. This then is not a case in which the agency must redo its analysis from the ground up. Boasberg also acknowledged that shutting down the pipeline would disrupt the energy industry but said it wasnt a major factor in his decision. The 3.8 billion pipeline built by Texas based Energy Transfer Partners has been operating since June 1 moving oil from North Dakota through South Dakota and Iowa to a distribution point in Illinois. From there it can be shipped to the Gulf Coast and potentially lucrative markets abroad. It has the capacity to move half of the oil produced daily in North Dakota the nations second leading producer behind Texas. Energy industry officials applauded Boasbergs ruling with North Dakota Petroleum Council President Ron Ness calling the pipeline a critical part of American energy infrastructure. The Justice Department declined comment on behalf of the Corps. President Donald Trump had pushed for the pipelines completion and the Corps dropped a plan to conduct more environmental study after he took office. Boasberg ruled on June 14 that the Corps largely complied with environmental law but he ordered the agency to reconsider certain areas of its analysis and took arguments on whether to shut down the 1200 mile 1930 kilometer pipeline while the work is done. Boasberg in June said the Corps didnt adequately consider how an oil spill under the Lake Oahe reservoir on the Missouri River in the Dakotas might affect the Standing Rock Sioux. The tribe is among four that have challenged the pipeline in court over environmental fears that ETP says are unfounded. The judge said the Corps also didnt adequately study how the pipeline might disproportionately affect the tribal community a concept known as environmental justice. That aims to ensure development projects arent built in areas where minority populations might not have the resources to defend their rights. In its analysis of the Missouri River crossing the Corps studied the mostly white demographics in a half mile 0.8 kilometer radius which the agency maintains is standard. But if the agency had gone an additional 88 yards 80 meters about the length of a football field the study would have included the Standing Rock Reservation. Boasberg in his ruling Wednesday said that issue was a closer call than the others but that it still did not justify shutting down the pipeline. He noted that the tribes water intake has been moved about 50 miles 80 kilometers downstream since pipeline construction began and said an alternative river crossing near Bismarck that had been studied and rejected would pass much closer to a drinking water intake that serve tens of thousands more people. Risks presented to this tenfold increase in population must of course be considered the judge said. Corps attorneys said the agency expects to be able by next spring to substantiate its earlier determination that the pipeline poses no significant environmental threats. ETP maintained that a shutdown would cost it 90 million monthly and significantly disrupt the broader energy industry as well as state and local tax revenue. The North Dakota Pipeline Authority this week said that the Dakota Access pipeline boosted the states tax revenues by about 19 million in its first three months of operation. Tribal attorneys argued that ETP had overstated the potential effects of a shutdown and Boasberg acknowledged some cause for skepticism regarding ETPs predictions. Tribal attorneys also said a shutdown would create incentive for the Corps to take the review seriously. The tribes had proposed a fallback plan if Boasberg decided against a shutdown. It includes increased public reporting of pipeline issues such as repairs and implementation of a spill response plan including equipment staging at Lake Oahe. Boasberg said he will hear arguments on the matter. He scheduled a status conference for Oct. 18.	False	False	False	False	False
Deforestation of Brazil's Amazon rainforest increased by 29.5 in 12 months the highest rate since 2008 the country's space agency reports. The rainforest lost 9762 sq km 3769 sq miles of its vegetation between August 2018 and July 2019 Inpe says. Far right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe. Scientists say the Amazon has suffered losses at an accelerated rate since Mr Bolsonaro took office in January. They say the president favours development over conservation. Who is Brazil's new leader Jair Bolsonaro? Mr Bolsonaro who in July dismissed a similar Inpe report as flawed has not commented on the latest data. As the largest rainforest in the world the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming. Over the past decade previous governments in Brazil had managed to reduce deforestation with concerted action by federal agencies and a system of fines. But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a dramatic fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes.	False	False	False	False	False
Two water districts in Sacramento California are suing the US government for nearly one and a half billion dollars for groundwater cleanup. Plaintiffs claim heavy metals used by aircraft maintenance crews at the old McClellan Air Force Base have contaminated over 300 sites. The lawsuits named the US Air Force and 10 major firms involved in supplying chromium products and chemicals to the base and was filed by the Sacramento Suburban Water District and the Rio Linda Elverta Community Water District according to the Sacramento Bee. At contention is whether the cancer causing chemical hexavalent chromium or chromium 6 came from the base which was designated a federal Superfund site in 1987 for 326 contaminated sites identified for cleanup. They knew or should have known that this harmful compound would reach groundwater pollute drinking supplies render drinking water unusuable and unsafe and threaten the public health and welfare stated the complaint which claims an underground storage tank likely held the chemical. The lawsuits demands more than 1.4 billion to clean up the polluted wells install treatment equipment and replace wells that have been decommissioned for being polluted with chromium 6. Sacramento Suburban seeks to recover the substantial costs necessary to protect the public and restore its damaged drinking water supply the water districts lawsuit filed in federal court in Sacramento says as part of its claim seeking 1.1 billion in damages. Rio Linda Elvertas claim seeks more than 289 million in damages. Chrome 6 is a highly toxic compound and it shouldnt be in the water Victor Sher a San Francisco environmental attorney representing the plaintiffs said Tuesday. Water districts are constantly balancing risks against cost he said adding Theyre committed to delivering water that is as free as possible of contaminants but doing so is expensive. Plaintiffs argued that as far back as 1984 McClellan had burn and burial pits trenches and unlined ponds and ditches contaminated with chemicals. Contaminated with plating wastes solvents acids waste oils paint thinners strippers and sludges and other hazardous compounds the lawsuits stated. Plaintiffs argue that the chemicals have been found in groundwater under the base as high as 840 parts per billion six times higher than levels that decrease away from the air base. The state set a maximum concentration for chromium 6 as 10 parts per billion in 2014. The Air Force denied Rio Linda Elvertas claim in a May 9 letter before the district sued in federal court on June 30. The Air Force had consistently denied responsibility for polluting the groundwater around the base which operated from 1936 through 2001 before being converted to a business park. In addition to the Air Force the water district lawsuits name 10 firms they say were associated with providing chemicals to the base Elementis Chromium Inc. Occidental Chemical Corp. Honeywell Inc. BASF Corp. PPG Inc. E.I. Du Pont De Nemours and Co. Luxfer Holdings PLC Sigma Aldrich Corp. and Dow Chemical Co. Officials with Sacramento Suburban which serves 175000 customers just east of the old base and Rio Linda Elverta which serves about 15000 customers to the west of the base say the water they are currently providing is safe. A 2016 Harvard study of some36000 EPA water samples taken from 2013 to 2015 at industrial sites military fire training locations airports and wastewater treatments plants containedlevels of perfluoroalkyl substances PFASs or perfluorinated chemicals that go beyond what is considered safe by the federal government. Researchers determined that drinking water for 6 million in the US is at or beyond the EPA safety threshold for PFAS levels. Xindi Hu the study's lead author warned that the actual number of people exposed may be even higher than our study found because government data for levels of these compounds in drinking water is lacking for almost a third of the U.S. populationabout 100 million people.	False	False	False	False	False
Environmental Protection Agency EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt told business advocates the agency will reconsider a rule utilities worry could force more coal fired power plants to close. I have decided that it is appropriate and in the public interest to reconsider the rule Pruitt wrote in a letter sent Wednesday to counsel for a utility group and officials at the U.S. Small Business Administration SBA. The EPA is acting promptly to issue an administrative stay of the compliance dates in the rule that have not yet passed pending judicial review Pruitt wrote regarding an EPA regulation on liquid waste from coal plants. Pruitt was responding to a petition sent by the Utility Water Action Group UWAG urging the Trump administration to rescind its Effluent Limitations Guidelines for coal fired power plants. UWAG argues the regulation will cause negative impacts on jobs due to the excessive costs of compliance which were grossly underestimated by EPA and regulatory burdens forcing plant closures. UWAG said EPA underestimated the rules costs and withheld records about the rulemaking from utilities who would have to comply with the rule which the agency estimates could cost up to 2.5 billion a year. To an unprecedented extent the Agency withheld fundamental information purporting to justify the Rule UWAG argued adding that included pages of the record that demonstrably were not entitled to confidential treatment. The EPA said in legal filings it withheld records to protect confidential business information. Pruitt said EPA would reconsider the ELG rule based on UWAGs concerns. Its the latest move by the Trump administration to ease the regulatory burden on the coal industry. President Donald Trump promised to lessen regulations on coal mines to put miners back to work. Trump has already signed executive orders to rescind EPA and Interior Department regulations on coal production and power generation. Most recently Trump ordered the EPA to review the Clean Power Plan which limits carbon dioxide emissions from new and existing power plants. That rule was also expected to force more coal plants to prematurely shutdown. Environmentalists were obviously outraged by Pruitts decision. Trumps attempt to halt these clean water protections for mercury lead and arsenic from coal power plants is dangerous and irresponsible said Mary Anne Hitt the director of the Sierra Clubs Beyond Coal campaign. The Obama administration finalized the ELG rule in 2015 and it went into effect in January 2016. The rule requires coal plants to install new equipment to curb pollution from wastewater streams. Utilities including UWAG took EPA to court to have the rule overturned. UWAG and others argued the rule violated the Clean Water Act and Administrative Procedures Act. Aside from arguing EPA improperly withheld data on how they came up with the rule plaintiffs argued the agency didnt perform proper testing to see if requiring coal plants to install new equipment would meet federal pollution guidelines. Environmentalists fought to keep the rule in place and Pruitt can expect legal challenges if EPA tries to repeal the ELG rule. Trump claimed he wanted EPA to go back to basics and focus on clean air and water in his Administration but one of the first actions by his EPA Administrator is an attempt to gut an important water pollution safeguard Hitt said. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	False	False	False	False	False
Just a few hours before the second round of 2020 Democratic presidential contenders are set to face off dozens of local activists in Miami Florida held an Underwater Climate Rally calling for more discussion about climate change at the second Democratic debate. A coalition of local environmental groups organized the march to the Arsht Center in Miami where this round of debates is being held with marchers sporting signs calling for a specific climate change debate and pushing for the Green New Deal. Melissa Baldwin co organizer of Miami Climate Month which organized the rally says from the moment she and her fellow organizers found out the first debate would be in Miami they wanted to put a spotlight on climate change because you cant come to Miami without talking about climate change. Climate change and fossil fuels have already disturbed the daily lives of Floridians. Sea level rise and warming temperatures threaten cities like Miami. Kim Ross ReThink Energy Florida leader resident witnessed people in her communityinTallahasseefeeling helpless after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster which damaged Gulf Coast ecosystems. This isnt something in the future Ross says. This is something thats happening now and needs to be addressed now. At the first 2020 Democratic debate on Wednesday night Democrats spent less than 10 minutes talking about climate change. Though not an extensive conversation that was still more time spent talkingabout climate change than in all of threedebates combined between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump in 2016. Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because climate change is an issue that affects every other issue agriculture the economy including tourism. She recalls a friend saying Who wants to go to Disney when its 105 degrees outside?	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON Reuters The U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee passed a spending bill on Thursday evening that includes 10 million to help fund the United Nations climate change body that oversees the Paris Climate Agreement despite President Donald Trumps decision to stop funding it. The 30 member Senate panel which allocates federal funds to various government agencies and organizations approved a 51 billion spending bill for the State Department and foreign operations which included an amendment to continue funding the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change as well as the scientific body the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The amendment passed even though the 2018 budget proposal that Trump a Republican introduced earlier this year eliminated support of any mechanism to finance climate change projects in developing countries and organizations. The United States is still a party to the 1992 UNFCCC which oversees the Paris agreement although Trump announced in June that he would withdraw the nation from the global climate pact and cease funding the Green Climate Fund which supports clean energy and climate adaptation projects in vulnerable countries. The United States has usually contributed to around 20 percent of the UNFCCC budget. Democratic Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon the amendments author said on Twitter on Thursday Despite dangerous decision unwillingness to act we can will fight back to combat The amendment passed 16 14. Republican Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lamar Alexander of Tennessee voted in favor as did all committee Democrats except for West Virginias Joe Manchin. Although the United States announced it would no longer be a party to the Paris Climate Agreement a pact that nearly 200 countries approved in 2015 to combat global warming it has said it will continue to observe the ongoing negotiations. In a diplomatic cable that Reuters obtained last month Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said U.S. diplomats should sidestep questions from foreign governments on how the United States plans re engage in the global Paris climate agreement. The cable also said diplomats should make clear that the United States wants to help other countries use fossil fuels which have been linked to global warming. L1N1KU0UP	False	False	False	False	False
Adopting more active forest management policies such as increased thinning of trees and conducting controlled burns will help mitigate damage from future wildfires the Los Angeles Times editorial board writes. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke began advocating similar policy prescriptions earlier in 2018 after President Donald Trump blamed Californias bad environmental laws for creating a wildfire prone environment.RELATED Trump Administration Is Taking Its Fight Against Bad Environmental Laws Straight To California California forests have grown drier and less healthy from overcrowded trees infestations of bark beetles and the effects of climate change the LA Timeswrites. Californias restrictions on active forest management have contributed to the poor and worsening conditions of the forests allowing them to grow uninhibited while suppressing fires that would normally naturally control the forests growth. Fire is not necessarily bad for forests. California used to burn with regularity and low intensity fires are vital in some ecosystems to clear excess brush and small trees from the landscape the editorial board writes. But theres been a change in fire behavior over the last century as the state and federal government began dousing the blazes. Decades of fire suppression have allowed forests to grow dense with trees. Combined with drought insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality the op ed continues. Californias environmental laws entered the national spotlight in early August when Trumpblamedthem for the severity of the wildfires that were ravaging the state. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke was soon at the front of the administrations push for California to begin adopting more active land management policies. Zinke traveled to California to see the damage from the fires and meet with local officials and firefighters Aug. 13. Zinke ramped up calls for greater forest thinning while also dismissing the idea that climate change is playing a significant factor in the wildfires intensity.RELATED Ryan Zinke Shifts The Wildfire Debate From Global Warming To Anti Logging Environmental Terrorists Ive heard the climate change argument back and forth Zinke told Sacramento based KCRA. This has nothing to do with climate change. This has to do with active forest management. California Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown partnered with state lawmakers to introduce changes to the states policies. The bill would grant 1 billion toward forest thinning and ease regulations on cutting trees on private property according to the LA Times.	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON AP Democrats including Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez of New York are calling for a Green New Deal intended to transform the U.S. economy to combat climate change and create thousands of jobs in renewable energy. The freshman lawmaker and veteran Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts are teaming up on the plan which aims to eliminate the U.S. carbon footprint by 2030. A joint resolution drafted by Ocasio Cortez and Markey sets a goal to meet 100 percent of the power demand in the United States through clean renewable and zero emission energy sources including dramatic increases in wind and solar power. A news conference at the Capitol is set for Thursday the day they introduce the resolution. While setting lofty goals the plan does not explicitly call for eliminating the use of fossil fuels such as oil and natural gas a nod to pragmatism that may disappoint some of Ocasio Cortezs strongest supporters. Even so their Green New Deal goes far beyond the Clean Power Plan proposed by President Barack Obama. President Donald Trump has scrapped Obamas plan which imposed emissions limits on coal fired power plants as a job killer. The Democrats are likely to meet resistance to their proposal in Congress especially in the Republican controlled Senate. Trump who has expressed doubts about climate change also is likely to oppose it. The resolution marks the first time Ocasio Cortez and other lawmakers have attached legislative language onto the Green New Deal a concept that until now has been largely undefined other than as a call for urgent action to head off catastrophic climate change and create jobs. Several Democratic presidential hopefuls have embraced the idea of a Green New Deal without saying exactly what it means. Ocasio Cortez said in a statement that the plan will create unprecedented levels of prosperity and wealth for all while ensuring economic and environmental justice and security. She calls for a World War II scale mobilization that includes high quality education and health care clean air and water and safe affordable housing. Answering critics who call the plan unrealistic Ocasio Cortez says that when President John F. Kennedy wanted to go to the moon by the end of the 1960s people said it was impossible. She also cites Franklin D. Roosevelts New Deal Lyndon B. Johnsons Great Society and the interstate highway system begun under Dwight D. Eisenhower as examples of American know how and capability. While focusing on renewable energy Ocasio Cortez said the plan would include existing nuclear power plants but block new nuclear plants. Nuclear power does not emit greenhouse gases which contribute to global warming. The resolution does not include a price tag but some Republicans predict it would cost in the trillions of dollars. They denounced the plan at House hearings on climate change on Wednesday. The Green New Deal would be paid for the same way we paid for the original New Deal World War II the bank bailouts tax cuts for the rich and decades of war with public money appropriated by Congress Ocasio Cortez said. Government can take an equity stake in Green New Deal projects so the public gets a return on its investment she said.	False	False	False	False	False
Participants included the CEOs of Italian oil giant ENI British Petroleum ExxonMobil and Norways Statoil as well as scientists and managers of major investment funds. Their remarks on the first day of the closed door conference were not released by the Vatican. While Francis lauded the oil executives for embedding an assessment of climate change risks into their planning strategies he also put them on notice for their continued search for fossil fuel reserves 2 years after the Paris climate accord clearly urged keeping most fossil fuels underground. Civilization requires energy but energy must not destroy civilization he implored. Energy experts and those who advocate fighting climate change expressed doubts before the conference that it would amount to anything other than a PR opportunity for the companies to burnish their image without making meaningful changes. In his remarks the pope said he hoped the meeting gave participants the chance to re examine old assumptions and gain new perspectives. Francis said that modern society with its massive movement of information persons and things requires an immense supply of energy. And still he said as many as one billion people still lack electricity. The pope said meeting the energy needs of everyone on the planet must be done in ways that avoid creating environmental imbalances resulting in deterioration and pollution that is gravely harmful to our human family both now and in the future. Frances also recalled his own appeal in the Laudato Si encyclical for an energy policy aimed at averting disastrous climate changes that could compromise the well being and future of the human family and our common home. That includes transitioning to efficient clean energy sources. This is a challenge of epochal proportions he said Saturday. At the same time it is an immense opportunity to encourage efforts to ensure fuller access to energy by less developed countries as well as diversifying energy sources and promoting the sustainable development of renewable forms of energy. The pope called for a long term global strategy to provide energy security along with precise commitments to tackle the challenge of climate change. He said it was disturbing and a cause for real concern that the levels of carbon dioxide emissions and the concentrations of greenhouse gases remain high despite commitments taken in the 2015 Paris accord to fight global warming. He urged participants to use their demonstrated aptitude for innovation to address two of the great needs in todays world the care of the poor and the environment. He noted that the poor pay the highest price for climate change often being forced to migrate due to water insecurity severe weather and an accompanying collapse in agriculture. The transition to accessible and clean energy is a duty that we owe toward millions of our brothers and sisters around the world poor countries and generations yet to come the pope said.	False	False	False	False	False
The pictures are striking dozens of whales lie stranded on an idyllic beach in a remote part of New Zealand. The group were found by a walker on Stewart Island earlier this week. And just a few days later a further 51 pilot whales died after becoming stranded on a beach on the Chatham Islands. While whale strandings are not uncommon they usually involve just a single animal rather than a whole group. The recent flurry of mass strandings has brought a renewed focus on the mysterious and rare phenomenon. So why does it happen? While the exact reasons remain unclear experts say many different factors could play a part. Quite often animals that turn up on a beach are getting exhausted they're malnourished or they haven't eaten because they're ill says Dr Simon Ingram a Professor of Marine Conservation at the University of Plymouth. They can be in the final stages of being ill or die at sea and end up getting washed up on a beach he adds. But Dr Ingram says that sickness or injury mainly plays a part when a single animal is found stranded. The trouble is that in a huge number of animals it's quite likely that some of them are going to be ill anyway he explains. It's also true that there have been cases where groups of healthy whales have ended up getting stranded. So what could be behind these cases? Some experts say that certain aspects of the coastline or sea bed can disorientate whales especially if they roam outside of their usual habitat. Some places like the tip of New Zealand are hotspots for stranding says Dr Ingram. Sometimes this is due to geographic features of the coastline. If there's a feature like a peninsular or headland then animals that should be in deeper waters may suddenly find themselves in a confusing shallow bay. Shallow water can pose a risk to pilot whales in particular because of the way in which they navigate and communicate. These animals forage and feed largely by echolocation says Dr Andrew Brownlow a veterinary pathologist who has undertaken post mortems on stranded pilot whales in Scotland. So they use sound to navigate and communicate and find their prey. Using echolocation in areas with very shallow silty mud is like trying to walk through a forest on a foggy day he explains It's very hard to get your bearings and see clearly. This combination of shallow waters and confused muddled echolocation is a serious danger and may lead to mass strandings. They end up coming into shallow areas and get stranded by the receding tide so the natural lay of the land is a real risk factor for these animals Dr Brownlow says. But if a single whale gets injured or lost why do they end up beached in such large numbers? Experts say the answer lies in their herd like behaviour. It's a problem you get with these very social animals that tend to for reasons we have never been clear on end up following either a sick leader onto the beach or end up getting lost as a group Dr Brownlow says. This particular species seems to be very prone to that herd behaviour. It means that if one pilot whale encounters a problem then it can have an impact on the entire group. Dr Brownlow points to one case in 2015 when around 30 whales became stranded on the Isle of Skye off Scotland's west coast. We think that was because one of the females was having trouble giving birth and was in a lot distress he explains. She came into shallow waters and all the other members of the group followed her onto the beach. Another possible cause of strandings some experts suggest is warmer water temperatures. We've had an unusual week which we haven't got to the bottom of and it's fair to say it's been an entirely unusual year Dr Karen Stockin a marine mammal scientist based at New Zealand's Massey University told AFP news agency after the latest mass stranding. I suspect a lot of that has been driven by the warmer sea surface temperatures that we're seeing at the moment. She explained That's likely affecting where the prey is moving and as a consequence we're seeing prey moving and whale species following. New Zealand's summer begins on Saturday and Dr Stockin warned that there could be more beachings to come. We're just going into stranding season now this is only the beginning of it and we're very mindful of the fact that this a very busy start she said. While Dr Stockin says that global warming may be playing apart in the rising sea temperatures most experts say that it's important not to jump to conclusions about the role of humans in these cases. Pilot whales have probably been stranding in New Zealand since before people lived there Dr Ingram says. It's probably not anything to do with what humans have done. It's a very dynamic ecosystem that these animals are in so I would be very cautious in making any connection between these examples and climate change.	False	False	False	False	False
Protesters were arrested in Washington after blocking an oil train by erecting a pop up garden of sunflowers and lying down on the train tracks. The group was protesting a proposed oil terminal and all other fossil fuel infrastructure in the state. Two people were arrested Monday during a protest in downtown Vancouver Washington held by the activist group Shut Down Fossil Fuels. Protesters locked their arms into large sunflower pots and laid down on train tracks calling on Washington Governor Jay Inslee D to reject the proposed Vancouver Tesoro Savage Oil Terminal and all other proposed fossil fuel infrastructure in the State of Washington the group said in a press release. The protesters were blocking a BNSF train carrying Bakken Crude Oil a highly volatile oil that caused a train to explode in Mosier Oregon last June. Jessie Braverman the groups media liaison told RT that around 25 people showed up at the train tracks to address climate change and let the governor know that if he isnt going to stop the terminal than we will. Our community and our planet are under attack yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate. We were here on the tracks a year after the Mosier oil train derailment and nothing has changed Braverman said in a statement. The trains are still coming and new fossil fuel projects are still being proposed were in the midst of a worldwide climate emergency and were fighting back. Braverman confirmed that two people were arrested during the protest and they are still being held in jail. She also said that there had been no word from the governor whom they had been attempting to contact throughout the day. According to the Associated Press the tracks were cleared after an hour. In 2014 the state of Washington passed legislation to increase track and hazardous material inspections require oil spill contingency plans increase funding for prevention and cleanup of oil spills and improve safety at crossings along oil train routes. However Inslee said that states are limited in what we can do in creating regulations for interstate railroads. Railroads engage in interstate commerce which means the buck stops with the federal government. While federal regulators acknowledge the risks of crude by rail they have taken few steps toward increasing safety Inslee wrote in an op ed for the Columbian last year. The combination of federal preemption and federal inaction is unacceptable. Inslee urged Congress and the US Department of Transportation to implement even tougher regulations including lower speed limits for high hazard flammable trains and to use safer cars that are strong enough to protect volatile contents from the heat of a fire or the impact of a collision. However the group said that Inslee has failed to craft an emissions reduction strategy and the state continues to move towards a dizzying array of new fossil fuel developments. If I can stop an oil train Governor Jay Inslee can stop an oil terminal Chris one of the protesters said in a statement. Ultimately Shut Down Fossil Fuels is calling for an end to oil trains oil terminals and all fossil fuels. Its now or never. Were up against the wire and nobody no politician no agency no industry is stepping up to resolve the climate crisis Mike one of the protesters locked to a flower pot said in a statement. Its time for the people to step up to resolve this crisis before we run out of time. Sophie Scholl another media liaison for the group told RT that there has been a second blockade of a train up north following the arrests in downtown Vancouver.	False	False	False	False	False
Greenpeace founder turned climate change skeptic Patrick Moore has reignited his feud with Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio Cortez calling her a pompous little twit and garden variety hypocrite in a barrage of tweets. Moore helped found the veteran eco organization in the 1970s before parting ways with his fellow activists over their left wing politics and becoming an advocate for nuclear power and lobbyist for the forestry industry. Lately he has been tussling with New York Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio Cortez over the Green New Deal an ambitious piece of environmental legislation that seeks to dramatically overhaul Americas energy sector and economy in a bid to slash carbon output. Moore began picking the Green New Deal apart in February ridiculing its promise to remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. Technically he stated this would mean removing all H2O vapour and all CO2 which would mean the eradication of all life on Earth. The legislation has been ridiculed from all sides for its proposed abolition of air travel and fossil fuel powered vehicles as well as its estimated cost of over 50 trillion over twice the worth of the entire US economy. Ocasio Cortez has stuck to her guns however. In a tweet the Bronx Democrat told skeptics If you dont like the Green New Deal then come up with your own ambitious on scale proposal...until then were in charge. Moore hit back calling AOC a pompous little twit and claiming that if fossil fuels were banned every tree in the world would be cut down for fuel for cooking and heating. You would bring about mass death. More recently a New York Post hit piece lambasted Ocasio Cortez for using cars to get around while campaigning in New York instead of the subway system. I also fly and use AC Ocasio Cortez responded. Living in the world as it is isnt an argument against working towards a better future. The world as it is has the option of taking the subway rather than a taxi Moore continued. You're just a garden variety hypocrite like the others. And you have ZERO expertise at any of the things you pretend to know he tweeted on Sunday before calling AOC an immature bully. Ocasio Cortez more mainstream Democrat colleagues have paid lip service to the Green New Deal but have been cautious about declaring support for the plan. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi brushed it aside in an interview with Rolling Stone on Thursday saying it goes beyond what our charge is. In addition to slashing carbon emissions the deal calls for widespread wealth redistribution to counteract systemic injustices and includes provisions for universal healthcare and taxpayer funded college tuition. An early overview of the plan since removed from Ocasio Cortez website promised economic security for all who are unable or unwilling to work swore to sideline the private sector in all environmental decision making and even vowed to eliminate farting cows. Republicans argue that the deal is tantamount to full blown socialism. Its more outlandish provisions have turned it into a punching bag for the GOP who have sought to paint the Democratic party as the party of socialist totalitarianism ahead of next years election. After referring to AOC as a raving lunatic President Donald Trump said on Saturday that the deal is the new Democrat platform and I dont want to talk them out of it...I want them to embrace this plan. I just want to be the Republican who runs against them. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False	False	False	False	False
Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audiences eyes at the climate change town hall literally as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half truths and excuses. The former Vice President was clearly floundering during CNNs climate change town hall on Wednesday which saw him face off against eight other Democrats. Viewers called him out for rambling incoherent answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry. Then his left eye began filling up with blood. At around the same time his campaign cautioned voters not to turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines an ironic coincidence or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event? Before Bidens eye exploded the audience had been raking him over the coals for a scheduled fundraiser the following night at the home of a natural gas executive. The three time candidate has never been particularly committed to green issues slammed by environmental groups for not having a climate change policy he finally released one in June that contained several plagiarized items. But he had along with most of the other Democratic candidates promised not to take money from the fossil fuel industry a promise the fundraiser seemed to break to viewers dismay. But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye. Look Biden haters sometimes your eye is gonna spontaneously fill up with blood okay one user joked. Twitter furiously deploying algorithms to keep Bidens bloody corpse eye from trending observed another it appeared to work while was trending and variations thereof were noticeably not. Apparently it wasnt even the first time Bidens eye has filled up with blood during an important political event. But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment. Not sure after tonight who has less time to live Biden or the planet said one. Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding commented another. I give it 14 minutes before Bidens campaign says his bloody eye was because of climate change predicted another. Meanwhile others made the inevitable comparisons to Hillary Clinton another candidate with a marked enthusiasm gap between donors and voters who has run for president and lost before yet is propped up by the media as the surefire winner. And some took time out from gawking to worry about his health since political speeches dont normally cause visible injury. Does Biden have a blood clot in his left eye? wondered one user. This cant be good news given his health history noted another. Like this story? Share it with a friend!	False	False	False	False	False
The United States is still reeling from last years megadisasters. Puerto Rico lingers in the longest blackout in US history after Hurricane Maria tore through the island and the scorched earth left behind from record breaking fires in California is now causing floods and mudslides. The Federal Emergency Management Agency which was on the front lines of many of these calamities had to go back to Congress last September to ask for billions more dollars to handle the gargantuan relief efforts. With some of the dust settled its clear that the events in 2017 fit the pattern of extreme weather we expect as average global temperatures go up with strong climate change signals emerging in fires and rainfall. FEMA has and will continue to respond to climate change influenced disasters. But the agencys new strategic plan for 2018 2022 released Thursday doesnt mention climate change or global warming at all. Thats despite the fact that the 38 page document projects more frequent and more expensive disasters. This is a glaring omission from an agency that deals with anticipating and responding to weather extremes driven in part by a changing climate. The damages from the hurricanes heat waves wildfires and tornadoes in 2017 cost at least 306 billion. Disaster costs are expected to continue to increase due to rising natural hazard risk decaying critical infrastructure and economic pressures that limit investments in risk resilience according to the document. FEMA did signal that it wants to invest more in pre disaster mitigation which may or may not include climate change. But it wasnt so coy in its previous 2014 2018 strategic plan which noted that the agency will also ensure that future risks including those influenced by climate change are effectively integrated into the Agencys risk assessment resources and processes. Dropping climate change from FEMAs strategic plan is just the latest part of the Trump administrations long pattern of erasing climate change as a public policy issue across the federal government. Agencies including the Department of Energy the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of the Interior have removed climate change language from many of their websites. Other agencies have limited access to policy and technical documents dealing with climate change. And some government research grant applications faced extra scrutiny and rejection for mentioning the double C word. Its not just rhetoric. President Trump wants the United States to back out of the Paris climate agreement and the EPA is working to undo the main policy for restricting greenhouse gases the Clean Power Plan. The White Houses latest budget proposal seeks a 72 percent cut to clean energy research and reduces FEMAs budget by almost 600 million from 16.1 billion. The recent personnel shake up across the federal government doesnt bode well for the fight against climate change either. Rex Tillerson who was fired as secretary of state this week wanted the United States to remain in the Paris deal. His likely replacement Mike Pompeo doesnt believe humanity is warming the planet. And former White House adviser George David Banks who suggested that Trump could rejoin the Paris agreement resigned last month after he failed to get a security clearance due to past marijuana use. The net result is that the Trump administration is doing little to either mitigate or adapt to rising temperatures. And now homeowners many of whom received disaster relief money from FEMA are rebuilding in floodplains and high fire risk areas. It seems FEMA doesnt want to build on this history of climate disasters. Now it looks like were condemned to repeat it.	False	False	False	False	False
This story was originally published by High Country Newsand is shared here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration. TheGreen New Dealand its proponents aim to tackle the intertwined issues of social and environmental justice in our age of anthropogenic climate change. To accomplish this they believe they must deploy the federal government since it is the only institution large enough to coordinate and invest in the necessary policies. But the idea of expanding the role of government has attracted critics whorail against socialism. To historians this sounds familiar. This is not the first time socialism new deals and the environment have intersected. During the catastrophe of the Great Depression of the 1930s the federal government similarly attempted to ameliorate social and environmental harms by investing in people and places through the New Deal. Then as nowcritics dismissed it as socialism. The socialist sobriquet stokes ideological fires but douses historical understanding. One prominent exampleBob Marshalls argument for nationalizing forests during the 1930sreveals how socialist solutions emerge from specific contexts and problems not ideological bunkers. In Marshalls case the dire state of private timberlands in the early 20th century prompted his call for reform. When massive problems develop cross jurisdictional lines and are associated with market failures big government responses can seem like the only possible solution. By the early 20th centuryhundreds of years of unregulated cutting had ravaged the nations forests and Americans faced a crisis that demanded intervention. Rocks and mountains may be ageless but men and society are emphatically of the present and they cannot wait for the slow process of nature to retrieve the catastrophe caused by their unthinking destructiveness wrote Marshall a forester for federal agencies throughout his career a co founder of The Wilderness Society and the person for whom Montanas Bob Marshall Wilderness Area is named. A massive evaluation of American forestry conducted by the Forest Service in 1932 both shaped and reflected Marshalls views. Appearing the next yearA National Plan for American Forestry known as the Copeland Report showed that private forests were failing. The majority of the nations timber came from privately held forests just as it does today. They burned more often were not harvested to provide a continual crop of timber failed to protect watersheds and offered few recreational opportunities compared to public forests. They caused social problems too with lumber workers doing dangerous transient jobs that resulted in mangled bodies and left hollowed out towns behind. As Marshall saw it The private owner is thus responsible for almost every serious forest problem. So Marshall argued that American timberlands should be publicly owned. In 1933 four years into the Depression and during the first year of Franklin D. Roosevelts presidency Marshall publishedThe Peoples Forests his own radical extension of the Copeland Report which advocated for public ownership of practically all commercial forests in America. He was writing amid an economic catastrophe mirrored in the nations wild and rural landscapes where bankrupted farmers out of work loggers and drought driven refugees were common not unlike today. ThroughoutThe Peoples Forests Marshall showed how private ownership even when tempered by public regulation fell short only full public ownership could keep forests and communities healthy. He united a biological and social vision for forestry one where human happiness and decent livelihoods might sprout from robust forests. In articulating that vision he made his socialist case plain The fundamental advantage of public ownership of forests over private ownership is that in the former social welfare is substituted for private gain as the major objective of management. Much the way todays Green New Deal seeks to redress both economic and environmental impoverishment Marshall sought to replace private profit with a broader public spiritedness that aimed for long term stability ending cut and run practices and ultimately strengthening communities. Marshalls call for reforms reflected an accelerating trend of expanding public lands in the 1930s when the federal government acquired millions of acres for national parks national forests andwildlife refuges. Newly passed laws like theMigratory Bird Hunting Stamp Act 1934and theBankhead Jones Farm Tenant Act 1937helped the government fund refuges acquire property for conservation and bail out private owners who lived on wrecked lands. Starting around the same time and lasting until the 1950s Forest Service administrators advocated for public regulation of logging on private land principally citing concerns about declining timber production and the threat of fire on poorly managed parcels. Though ultimately unsuccessful those efforts illustrated a push to establish stability amid unsettling crisis a goal Marshall shared. When capitalism stumbles badly producing degraded lands and gaping inequalities socialistic solutions rise in popularity because their incentives are not tied to profits. Marshalls closing line argues for that perspective The time has come when we must discard the unsocial view that our woods are the lumbermens and substitute the broader ideal that every acre of woodland in the country is rightly a part of the peoples forests. Shouting socialist as an epithet isa tired strategy a failure to reckon with specific contexts and problems whether its damaged timberlands in the 1930s or rising sea levels today.The Peoples Forestsand the Green New Deal highlight the ways social and environmental harms are woven together a reminder that real solutions require a mutual untangling and that despite American history and politics suspicion of true socialism government necessarily holds many of the threads.	False	False	False	False	False
Dozens of countries have extraordinary tropical forests but three stand out Brazil Indonesia and the Democratic Republic of Congo. These countries not only have the largest areas of tropical forest within their borders they also have the highest rates of deforestation. Dozens of countries have extraordinary tropical forests but three stand out Brazil Indonesia and the Democratic Republic of Congo. These countries not only have the largest areas of tropical forest within their borders they also have the highest rates of deforestation. We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster not just locally but globally. These trees play many ecological roles but most impressive is how they produce rainfall remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and support hundreds of other species. If these ecosystems collapse the climate effects are likely to be irreversible. And so what happens to these forests truly affects all life on Earth. This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you me and the whole world. Meet the trees get to know their superpowers and learn how scientists are trying to protect them. This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	False	False	False	False	False
Democrat presidential candidate and billionaire Tom Steyer once again vowed to declare a state of emergency over the climate crisis America faces during the sixth Democrat presidential debate at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles California. I am hoping that we in fact that we will do what I am suggesting that we do which is declare a state of emergency on day one of my presidency Steyer said in regards to the relocation of families under certain living conditions in America. I believe I am the only person here who will say unequivocally this is my number one priority Steyer continued. I know that we have to deal with this crisis. I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice. Steyer then claimed he had previously taken on oil companies and beaten them on environmental laws and pushed clean energy across this country. He also stated that he had prevented pipelines and fossil fuel plants. Steyer then shifted focus to cleaning up the air and water in the black and brown communities where our pollution is concentrated and claimed it would create millions of middle class union jobs. Steyer also called on Mayor Pete Buttigieg another Democrat presidential hopeful to put more emphasis on climate change saying the people in his generation understand that this is a crisis that we have to go on right now and reinvent America. In addition to what he plans to do in regards to climate change Steyer also stated at a previous Democrat debate that he would force American towns to accept new affordable housing in certain areas.	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON Andrew Wheeler is no longer the acting director of the EPA following the Senate's vote Thursday to make him the official head of the environmental regulatory agency. The Senate narrowly confirmed Wheeler 52 47 largely along party lines with Republicans in support and Democrats againsthim. While leading President Donald Trump's deregulatory agenda Wheeler also has emphasized the agency's work to clean up Superfund sites and for the first time begin regulating a set ofharmful chemicalsfound in drinking water systems that serve millions of Americans. Mr. Wheeler has proven his ability to advance pragmatic solutions to pressing environmental challenges Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell R Ky. said on the Senate floor before the vote. Maine Sen. Susan Collins was the lone Republican to oppose Wheeler's confirmation. While calling Wheeler certainly qualified for this position Collins said some of the policies he has proposed as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation. A former EPA bureaucrat who also served as an influential Capitol Hill stafferand an energy lobbyistWheeler hadbeen acting administrator of the agency since July when he replaced Scott Pruitt who left under an ethical cloud. When Trump nominated Wheeler for the official post in November the president praised him for performing a fantastic job. Though not as controversial or ethically compromised as PruittWheeler is opposed by a number of environmental groups who sharply criticize the president's aggressive efforts to undo Obama era rules they say are designed to protect the environment and address climate change. It's a sad day for public health and the EPA but missionaccomplished for the fossil fuel and chemical industries Ken Cook president of the Environmental Working Group said in a statement following the vote. They have longed for one of their own to call the shots at the agency and now they finally have their man in Andrew Wheeler. At his confirmation hearing in January Senate Democrats grilled Wheeler about his agency's proposals toroll back mercury emissions standards weaken clean water regulations and scrap Obama era climate change rules. Related President Trump made the right pick for EPA Sen. Barrasso Shortly after taking over in July Wheeler's EPA moved aheadwith a planto do away with the Obama era Clean Power Planand replace it with aproposed rule to set state guidelines for power plant emissions of greenhouse gases that contribute to a warming planet. And his agency finalizedrevisions to a 2015 Obama era rule regulating thedisposal of coal ashthat gives states and utilities what he called much needed flexibility to manage their waste. He alsorecommended freezing miles per gallon standards for cars and light trucks after the 2020 model yearand preventing California and other states from setting tougher standards saying it will improve safety andkeep prices lower for consumers. We haven't slowed downand we haven't missed a step Wheeler told senators in August. As you can see we're continuing the president's agenda post haste.	False	False	False	False	False
Chew On This Farmers Are Using Food Waste To Make Electricity This story was produced as part of a collaboration with the PBS NewsHour As the season of big holiday meals kicks off it's as good a time as any to reflect on just how much food goes to waste. If you piled up all the food that's not eaten over the course of a year in the U.S. it would be enough to fill a skyscraper in Chicago about 44 times according to an estimate from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. And when all this food rots in a landfill it emits methane a powerful greenhouse gas that contributes to climate change. In fact a recent report from the United Nations from a panel of climate experts estimates that up to 10 percent of all human made greenhouse gas emissions are linked to food waste. So here's one solution to the problem Dairy farmers in Massachusetts are using food waste to create electricity. They feed waste into anaerobic digesters built and operated by Vanguard Renewables which capture the methane emissions and make renewable energy. The process begins by gathering wasted food from around the state including from many Whole Foods locations. We visited the chain's store in Shrewsbury Mass. which has installed a Grind2Energy system. It's an industrial strength grinder that gobbles up all the scraps of food the store can't sell explains Karen Franczyk who is the sustainability program manager for Whole Foods' North Atlantic region. The machine will grind up all kinds of food waste everything from bones we put whole fish in here to vegetables to dry items like rice or grains Franczyk says as the grinder is loaded. It also takes frying fats and greases. While Whole Foods donates a lot of surplus food to food banks there's a lot waste left over. Much of it is generated from prepping prepared foods. Just as when you cook in your own kitchen there are lots of bits that remain such as onion or carrot peel rinds stalks or meat scraps. The grinder turns all these bits into a slurry. It really becomes kind of a liquefied food waste Franczyk says. From here the waste is loaded into a truck and sent to an anaerobic digester. There's no question it's better than putting it in the trash Franczyk says. She says the chain is committed to diverting as much waste as possible and aims for zero waste. In addition to food donations Whole Foods composts this waste to energy system is yet another way to meet its goal. We really do like the system she says. We visited Bar Way Farm Inc. in Deerfield Mass. Owner Peter Melnik a fourth generation dairy farmer showed us how his anaerobic digester which is installed next to his dairy barn works. We presently take in about a 100 tons of waste which is about three tractor trailer loads every day Melnik says. In addition to all the food waste from Whole Foods he gets whey from a Cabot Creamery in the area as well as waste from a local brewery and a juice plant. In the digester he combines all of this waste with manure from his cows. The mixture cooks at about 105 degrees Fahrenheit. As the methane is released it rises to the top of a large red tank with a black bubble shaped dome. We capture the gas in that bubble. Then we suck it into a big motor Melnik explains. Unlike other engines that run on diesel or gasoline this engine runs on methane. This turns a big generator which is creating one megawatt of electricity continuously Melnik says enough to power more than just his farm. We only use about 10 percent of what we make and the rest is fed onto the electricity grid Melnik explains. It's enough to power about 1500 homes. He says times are tough for dairy farmers so this gives him a new stream of revenue. Vanguard pays him rental fees for having the anaerobic digester on his farm. In addition he's able to use the liquids left over from the process as fertilizer on his fields. The digester has been a home run for us Melnik says. It's made us more sustainable environmentally and also economically. Vanguard Renewables hopes to expand its operations in the state and elsewhere. There's more than enough food waste in Massachusetts to feed all of our five digesters plus many more says CEO John Hanselman. Massachusetts has a state law that prohibits the disposal of commercial organic waste including food by businesses and institutions that generate at least one ton of this waste per week. This has created an incentive for food businesses to participate in the waste to energy initiative. Hanselman points to Europe where there are thousands of digesters in operation. His hope is that the concept will spread here. The food waste recycling through anaerobic digestion could be done in every part of the country Hanselman says. The company is currently building an anaerobic digester on a farm in Vermont. The gas produced there will be piped to Middlebury College which will help the college reduce its carbon footprint.	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON President Trumps decision to back out of the Paris climate accord is a blow to environmental activists but the nation's steady years long reduction in greenhouse gas emissionsthat contribute to global warming wont suddenly stop. Utility companies have announced plans to fully or partially close more than a half dozen coal fired power plants since Trump took office fewer than five months ago taking some of the nations largest greenhouse gas emitters off line. AndWall Street fund managers and large businesses are moving away from fossil fuels due to market conditions further contributing to increased use of cleaner energy sources. Since 2010 more than 250 coal fired power plants have closed in the U.S. On Wednesday Exxon Mobil shareholders voted against the boards recommendation to require the company publicly report on the risks to its business posed by climate change. The United States is making progress said John Coequyt Global Climate Policy Director for the Sierra Club. Were moving forward. We believe the rest of the world will do the same. Trump has already taken unilateral steps to roll back regulations that were designed to implement the Paris agreement including reversing President Obama's Clean Power Plan rule that sought to lower greenhouseemissions. Trumpcampaigned on a promise to withdraw the U.S.from the accord saying it would lead to higher energy prices and hurt domesticbusinesses from being able to compete globally. As president I have one obligation and that obligation is to the Americanpeople Trump said during a speech in theRose Garden announcingthe decision. The Paris Accord would undermineour economy hamstring ourworkers weaken oursovereignty impose unacceptable legal risk and put us at a permanentdisadvantageto the other countiesof the world. The internationalagreement which was signed in 2015 and went into effect seven months ago is considered a major part theenvironmental legacy of the Obama administration. Michael A. Needham chief executive officer of the conservative Heritage Action for America applauded the president's move. Withdrawal from the agreement marks a critical step in unraveling former President Obamas destructive legacy Needham said. Not only did Obama make this agreement without approval from Congress but in doing so he handed more control of Americas energy to foreign officials. Experts say pulling out of the accord will slow but hardly stop the momentum that's been building to keepa global temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre industrial levels. Under current policy the U.S. is still set to come within striking distance of meeting its 2020 goal under a prior U.N. climate change accordto reduce greenhouse gas emissions 17 below 2005 levels according to a report by energy analysts the Rhodium Group. But the analysis said withdrawing from the accord makes it very unlikely the U.S. will meet the26 28 target set out under the Paris deal. The exit from the accord will allow states such as California and New York to play a leading role in meeting climate change targets. California for example has stood out with its toughest in the nation vehicle emissions laws that often effectively establish auto industrystandards nationwide. California Gov. Jerry Brown said he hopes Trump's insane move to back out of the Paris accord will spur others to action. California will resist he told reporters on a conferencecall after Trump's announcement.California is all in. We're on the field ready for battle and while our president may be AWOL in the battle against climate change we're not.	False	False	False	False	False
Nineteen of the 25 Democratic presidential candidates have gone on record in favor of holding a debate devoted to climate change policy. In the past three days four more candidatesincluding Kamala Harrishave told Mother Jones that they support a climate debate raising the stakes for the Democratic National Committee which has so far resisted allowing such an event to take place. In addition to the California senator New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio former Rep. John Delaney Md. and former Rep. Joe Sestak Pa. are now calling for a climate debate joining big name candidates including Joe Biden Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren. Earlier this year the DNC announced plans to hold a dozen primary debates in 2019 and 2020 and to prohibit candidates from appearing in any debates that had not been approved by the national party. In April climate activistslaunched a grassroots campaign demanding that one of the debates be dedicated to climate they noted that presidential debate moderators had a long history of giving short shrift to the issue. Its not just because activists want to vet candidate platforms and solutions but because even getting candidates to talk more about an issue can raise the issues profile. The activists quickly won support from Washington Gov. Jay Inslee who has put global warming at the center of his campaign. But the DNCs line all along has been that it wouldnt hold any issue specific debates. The controversy reemerged after the first round of Democratic debates last week. Climate received 15 minutes of discussion over two nights but the largely superficial discussion of the issue only seemed to strengthen the activists case as key policy proposals such as the Green New Deal and 100 percent renewable energy mandates were virtually ignored. DNC officials spent the weekend reconsidering the matter. The result was a pair of resolutions that could come up for a vote at the partys August meeting. One proposal backed by DNC executive committee member Christine Pelosi and others would create a climate debate. A separate resolution which Pelosi described as less ideal would call for a forum in which candidates would appear individually to address climate policy. A third way forward she suggested might include an effort to survey party members about which issues deserve a standalone debate. It was somewhat ironic we DNC officials spent more time debating climate in our debate on Saturday than the candidates did Wednesday and Thursday Pelosi said. If a climate debate does happen much of the credit will belong to activist organizations like the US Youth Climate Strike a teen led group that has pressured candidates into endorsing the efforts. They plan to join with another youth oriented group Sunrise Movement to keep up the pressure throughout the summer. Still six candidates either havent taken a position on a climate change debate or didnt respond to requests for comment in time for publication. They are Sen. Cory Booker who called for more time to be devoted to the issue after the first debate Montana Gov. Steve Bullock former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper Wayne Messam the mayor of Miramar Florida California Rep. Eric Swalwell and author Marianne Williamson. Heres what each of the candidates have said Biden addressed a Greenpeace activist at a campaign rally in Ottumwa Iowa on June 11 Thats what we should be doing he said. Im all in man. Take a look at what Im talking aboutand by the way the first climate change plan in the history of the Congress? The campaign confirmed his position to Mother Jones in July. He tweeted in response to a Youth Climate Strike activist The candidate tweeted a video of her reading a letter from an activist asking her to sign a petition for a climate change debate. Im up for that she said. She also backed Inslees pushback against the DNC Harris communications director told Mother Jones Shes said she is happy to debate. Harris previously hadnt said publicly that she supports a climate change debate. Buttigiegs campaign did not clarify the candidates position on a debate but a staffer says he plans to continue to address the issue of climate change at every debate and every event that he attends. ORourkes campaign did not respond to a request for comment in time for publication to confirm Youth Climate Strikes tweet Booker supports more climate change discussion but the campaign toldMother Jones that the decision is in the hands of the DNC. John supports having a climate debate his communications director wrote in a July 1 email. Climate has been a big part of our campaign and we mentioned our carbon fee and dividend plan during the debate last week. A DNC debate focused on climate change would show the world that America intends to lead again on this issue and would be a smart place to discuss the key tenets of the Green New Dealinfrastructure green jobs and clean air and waterand how to put a price on carbon she told the Daily Beast. Bennet toldPolitico he thought a climate debate would be great. Inslee was the first candidate to endorse a climate change debate on April 17 launching his own petition aimed at the DNC. I cannot rule out any other debate that would highlight both the necessity of defeating the climate crisis and calling for the candidates to step up to the plate Inslee said in an interview with Mother Jones. Sixty second sound bites which is all youll be able to get in a party debate is grossly inadequate to the task. The candidate wrote on Wednesday in an email to Mother Jones How could you not? It is the most destructive threat to America and mankind.	False	False	False	False	False
Why progressives refuse to live by their own Earth Day bluster George Monbiot recently expressed a carefully calibrated environmental message that allows people on the environmental left to feel self righteous without making any real sacrifice. In a video that was shared widely including by celebrities such as James Corden the British writer argues that the only way to help the environment is to change the big structural political economic stuff. Monbiot concludes that we need to go straight to the heart of capitalism and overthrow it. At the same time he dismisses pathetic micro consumerist bollocks which just isnt going to get us anywhere. This is absolution for those who want to feel green but cant be bothered with going to the effort and expense of actually living their own values. Publicly advocating the do as I say not as I do approach reinforces the reality that conservatives tend to live out the environmental ethic that the Left only preaches. As a conservative who has worked in environmental policy for two decades I have been frustrated watching as ideological fellow travelers avoid environmental topics even as they privately express their commitment to environmental stewardship. As the Left becomes more detached from responsible and effective environmental solutions conservatives should confidently fill the void. One reason conservatives do not engage is that environmentalism has become synonymous with horrible government policy. Every Earth Day we are treated to theatrical images of marches featuring unhinged activists demanding action on a range of environmental issues. Clever hashtags are generated. Alarmist slogans are flaunted. Naked people glue themselves to park benches. And all who disagree with the demands for more government power are denigrated as deniers. The other 364 days of the year however people on the left do little in their daily lives to justify all that environmental browbeating. A study by researchers at the University of Michigan and Cornell University found that those who are highly concerned about climate change are least likely to report individual level actions to reduce their environmental impact. Those who considered themselves skeptical of climate change were most likely to report engaging in individual level pro environmental behaviors. To be sure not all conservatives are skeptical of climate change but generally we arent nearly as alarmist about climate change or other environmental issues even when we recognize the risk. That gap between the Lefts loud talk and their unwillingness to make personal sacrifices is not an accident. It is now part of their dogma. Individual actions are mere bollocks useless gestures. Only the sacrifices made by others will make a difference. This dichotomy is evident in my home state of Washington where politicians pride themselves on showing leadership in the effort to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. This year our legislature enacted a law requiring the state to meet a 100 percent renewable energy target by 2045. Environmental activists tweeted their support saying they demand action now and worrying about the climate crisis. Ironically though many who demand action do little of it themselves. For only a few dollars a month anyone who supports renewable energy can already buy renewable energy credits RECs ensuring that there is enough renewable energy on the grid to cover their personal use. I asked one politician pushing for the 100 percentrenewable requirement if she buys RECs to cover her environmental impact. She admitted that she does not and has no plans to do so. This is consistent with the message of Monbiot and political leaders pushing the Green New Deal. Personal sacrifice is of little consequence so why even try? Even as they call for an end to air travel politicians who demand we impose lifestyle change have not curtailed their own carbon producing travel despite living in the era of HD video conferencing. The most effective environmental efforts are often small personal actions in which people have skin in the game. Farmers find ways to conserve water because waste costs money. Aluminum cans are lighter today because it saves resources and they cost less to ship. Homeowners and businesses conserve energy because they pay the price for every kilowatt hour. When they dont save they change course unlike politicians who fear public embarrassment and throw good money after bad. This isnt just a theory. The amount of energy per unit of GDP in the United States has fallen steadily for several decades. There are no sharp drops. Instead the improvement is gradual and constant as individuals and businesses find ways to squeeze a bit more out of their energy use. Politicians can lecture all they want but these are truly the front lines of environmental stewardship. As Earth Day 2019 came and went the pattern of environmentalists demanding action that they themselves wont take predictably repeated itself. The pattern of conservatives avoiding talk of environmental stewardship even as they live it every day however is a pattern we should break. Effective environmental policy doesnt start with politicians and publicity stunts. Conservatives understand this. We should make it clear that personal environmental stewardship is not only more effective it is a more moral way to live.	False	False	False	False	False
We havent heard much about a national cap and trade system to curb carbon emissions since plans for one died in Congress about a decade ago. But tonight at the CNN climate forum Beto ORourke the former congressman from Texas revived the idea as his preferred method of pricing carbon. Under such a system the government issues a limited number of allowances or permits to companies and other entities that emit carbon dioxide essentially creating a cap on emissions. California and states across the Eastern Seaboard have used the system for the past several years to reduce emissions from the power sector. In the 5 trillion climate plan that Mr. ORourke released in April he indicated he would pursue some type of carbon pricing to reach his goal of net zero emissions by 2050 but didnt specify an approach. In response to a question from Priya Subberwal a New York University student Mr. ORourke made clear that he prefers cap and trade over a straight tax on carbon. We should certainly price carbon. I think the best possible path to do that is through a cap and trade system he said. Its the best way to send a pricing signal. The revenue from a cap and trade program he said would be reinvested in helping communities move toward clean energy. Mr. ORourke promised to surprise surprise re enter the Paris agreement on Day 1. He also pledged to lead the world in going well beyond the Paris climate agreement prevent new oil and gas leases on federal lands and bring back Obama era climate regulations like fuel economy standards and restrictions on coal fired power plants. The former Texas congressman was also one of the few candidates who explicitly tied Hurricane Dorian to newly proposed policies. He called for extending temporary protected status to anyone who wants to seek shelter here from the Bahamas which has been overwhelmed by the hurricane. Asylum laws Mr. ORourke said should include those who have been impacted by climate change. Its the right thing to do. Mr. ORourke was less clear about whether he believes people in his home state of Texas should be prevented from living in vulnerable flood areas. He said the government should help people move but avoided answering a question from the moderator Don Lemon about whether some areas were simply too risky for human habitation. One area where the Texan came down strong No limits on the meat industry despite calls from the United Nations for people to change their diet to avoid more damage to global land use. I reject any notion that we have to radically or fundamentally change how we eat or what we eat I think we just have to be more responsible in the way that we do it and the best way to do that is to allow the market to respond by setting a price on carbon he said.	False	False	False	False	False
Senate Democrats used the Wednesday confirmation hearing of Andrew Wheeler the acting administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to push him on the agencys negligence on climate change its rollback of regulations designed to protect Americans health and his uncannily close ties to the fossil fuel industry. Do you agree with the scientific community that climate change is a global crisis? Sen. Bernie Sanders I VT asked Wheeler repeatedly. I would not call it the greatest crisis no sir Wheeler responded. I consider it to be an issue that has to be addressed globally. Substantively I think you have your thumb wrist forearm and elbow on the scale Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse D RI told Wheeler referring to Wheelers past work as a coal lobbyist. Some Republicans raised concerns about climate change as well. At a few points the hearing was interrupted by protesters and chants of shut down Wheeler not the EPA. Eight protesters were arrested. Wheeler for his part emphasized in the hearing before the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee that the EPA was revising Obama era environmental regulations like the Clean Power Plan and the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards to comply with court rulings. It was a signal that he plans to continue to methodically advance Trumps agenda but in a much less bombastic way than former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt who resigned last year in disgrace after numerous allegations of ethics violations. Some Democrats even praised Wheeler for his collegiality and for being much more accessible than Pruitt. However others said he was tilting regulations in favor of the sectors the EPA is supposed to regulate for instance weakening pollution regulations on coal fired power plants. Before his work as a coal lobbyist Wheeler was a staffer at the EPA and on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. He was also an Eagle Scout and emphasized his love of hiking and camping. I do consider myself a conservationist he said. Unlike Pruitt Wheeler did acknowledge that humans are driving changes in the climate and that it must be addressed. When Sen. Jeff Merkley D OR asked Wheeler how he rated climate change in importance on a scale of 1 to 10 Wheeler said it was 8 or 9. Yet global emissions continue to rise and scientists recently warned that were running out of time to accelerate the global effort to limit warming to a less disastrous level. Instead of joining this effort the EPA is working to relax rules on emissions. And given that Wheeler answers to President Trump who has dismissed climate change as a concern its unlikely well see any radical changes at the EPA anytime soon. The Senate is expected to confirm Wheeler soon as the new head of the agency in a vote. Several Republicans brought up climate change during the hearing noting their concerns about the rise of carbon dioxide emissions in the United States in 2018 which Wheeler had disputed. We heard that there was an emissions rise in 2018 which you attributed to a cold winter a hot summer and also to more economic activity said Sen. Shelley Moore Capito R WV. You said you expect that to go down over time. What gives you the confidence that if this economy continues to roll the way we think it will that will actually happen? Wheeler said that greater energy efficiency in the power sector along with fuel economy standards would continue to drive down emissions. Sen. John Barrasso R WY suggested that technology is the main solution to greenhouse gases and asked Wheeler about the EPAs role in fostering innovation and using tactics like capturing carbon dioxide to extract more oil or make building materials. Wheeler said that all of EPAs programs encourage innovation. One thing thats important on the regulatory side is that we dont try to tip the scale one way or the other for example on energy sources he said. That Republicans are acknowledging climate change at all is a sign that the political winds on the issue have shifted and they can no longer afford to be passive on the issue if they want policies on their terms. And innovation seems to be the key thread uniting Republican responses to climate change. As my colleague David Roberts pointed out coming up with new technologies is indeed a key aspect of fighting climate change but for Republicans it may be a way to head off more ambitious climate policies. Already momentum is building in the House for taxing carbon as well as a Green New Deal to fight climate change. During the hearing Democrats revealed some of their strategy to pressure the EPA on climate change going forward. Since they lost seats in the Senate Democrats emphasized key state level disputes like the fight between California and the EPA over fuel economy standards. Vehicles are a huge source of greenhouse gas emissions and California wants to retain its authority to set tighter emissions rules than the rest of the country. The Trump administration wants one standard for the country as well as a much more relaxed fuel economy target than the one proposed under President Obama. Lawmakers from both sides also lamented the ongoing partial government shutdown. Most of the EPAs 13000 employees are furloughed but some are still on the job to deal with responses to disasters like the fallout from Californias wildfires last year. Some employees were also recalled to help the EPA meet court ordered deadlines for producing environmental regulations. Under these circumstances its not possible for EPA to do its mission said Sen. Ben Cardin D MD. I want to underscore how tragic this shutdown is.	False	False	False	False	False
Spurred by what they see as a sluggish ineffectual response to the existential threat of global warming student activists from around the world plan to skip school today for what organizers call a Global Climate Strike. The focus for young activists is the United Nations Climate Action Summit taking place Monday in New York City. The strike's figurehead is 16 year old Swedish activist Greta Thunberg who traveled from Sweden to New York on an emission free sailboat. A little over a year ago Thunberg began her school strike for the climate by herself outside the Swedish Parliament. Support for a school climate strike has since spread across the globe. In the last year Thunberg has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize by Norwegian lawmakers. She's also met with Pope Francis and lawmakers in several countries. We are currently on track for a world that could displace billions of people from their homes Thunberg warned this week during a speech accepting Amnesty International's Ambassador of Conscience Award. She ended her acceptance speech with a call to action See you on the streets! In New York City thousands of students may fill the streets with Thunberg because as the school district announced on Twitter it is giving strikers excused absences. In Oregon Portland Public Schools is doing the same. Strikes also are planned in rural areas where just a few dozen protesters are expected. Nicholas DuVernay 17 organized a protest in his politically conservative small town of La Grande Ore. Since probably the beginning of my junior year in high school I've been interested in climate science and pretty passionate about environmental topics says DuVernay who plans to study climate science when he attends college next year. A Washington Post Kaiser Family Foundation poll this week shows a majority of teenagers believe human caused climate change will cause harm to them. And a quarter of the poll respondents said they have participated in a school walk out a rally or contacted a government official on the issue. There have been similar student events in the past year. But this time students are asking adults to join them. At the University of Nevada Reno Stallar Lufrano Jardine 36 is setting up an event on campus where she's an employee and student. I'm bothered by the lack of movement to make meaningful advances to solve the climate crisis says Lufrano Jardine. But it's clear younger people are leading this movement and they say most adults especially policy makers are moving far too slowly. Strike organizers have a list of demands that includes respect of indigenous land sustainable agriculture protecting biodiversity environmental justice and a just transition away from fossil fuels and towards renewable energy said 17 year old Baltimore resident and organizer Nadia Nazar. Many of those demands are part of the Green New Deal which was crafted by progressive Democratic lawmakers but so far hasn't gone anywhere in Congress. At a Capitol Hill press event this week Nazar said she hopes the proposal defines her generation. I am not a part of Generation Z. I am a part of Gen GND the generation of the Green New Deal said Nazar as supporters cheered. Also on Capitol Hill this week Thunberg and other activists testified before lawmakers. Louisiana Republican Rep. Garret Graves told them climate change has exacerbated the loss of his state's coastline. I agree that we need to take aggressive action. I agree that we need to ensure that we move forward in a sustainable rational manner said Graves. But his idea of what that means is very different than the activists' vision. Graves agrees with President Trump on the need to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement. Graves told the student organizers the pact allows China to continue emitting more carbon dioxide while the U.S. cuts emissions. Paris and its related pledges would undermine U.S. competitiveness his spokesman said. Graves got immediate push back from the young activists including 17 year old Jamie Margolin from Seattle who asked how Graves will respond to questions from his children and grandchildren about whether he did enough to address climate change. Can you really look them in the eye and say 'No sorry I couldn't do anything because that country over there didn't do anything so if they're not going to do it then I'm not.' That is shameful and that is cowardly Margolin said. Organizers predict this climate strike will be the largest yet. More than 2000 scientists around the world have pledged to join. Some companies also have signed on including Patagonia and Seventh Generation.	False	False	False	False	False
A federal reportlast year found that about a quarter of all greenhouse gas emissions in the United States come from fossil fuel extraction on federal land. As the Trump administration continues its push to expand such development top candidates for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination agree that Americas public land must be a tool in the fight against climate change not a contributor to the problem. During CNNs marathon town hall on climate change Wednesday candidates vowed to end oil gas and coal leasing on federal land as part of a shared goal to decarbonizing the economy and prevent catastrophic warming. Sen. Kamala Harris D Calif. and former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julin Castro said they would also work to expand federally protected acreage. We actually need to undo the damage that this administration has done and then expand the lands that were protecting in our country Castro said. We can do that. Most of the 10 Democratic candidates who appeared on stage Wednesday have released climate plans that call for reversing Trumps sweeping land rollbacks safeguarding new sites or fully funding the popular Land and Water Conservation Fund which uses offshore fossil fuel revenue to protect natural areas and water resources. Castro Harris Sen. Cory Booker D N.J. and former Vice President Joe Biden have all committed to working toward protecting 30 of Americas land and water by 2030. The next president must be ready to lead the climate response we need to see on our shared lands and waters Huntley said. If we are going to keep pace with what science demands we must reduce greenhouse gas emissions on our public lands while also restoring protections for threatened forests from the Southern Appalachians to Alaskas Tongass National Forest. Ahead of Wednesdays forum Harris released a 10 trillion climate plan that calls for diversifying the marine and land ecosystems that we protect and targeting biodiversity hotspots and critical wildlife corridors as well as using existing presidential authorities to set aside critical landscapes. Bidens plan promises to permanently protect areas like the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge a pristine Alaska wilderness that the Trump administration is working to open to oil drilling and to set up programs to reforest and expand renewable energy on federal lands. Castros 10 trillion climate plan also released this week calls for designating new national monuments parks and wildlife refuge and outlines a so called Green Opportunity Corps that would put 15000 young adults to work in areas like public land conservation. He is the only candidate to put out an animal and wildlife welfare policy which seeks to end euthanasia for household dogs and cats and strengthen protections for endangered species. We need to connect the dots Castro said Wednesday. Ive connected the dots of actually preserving more of our lands both for the benefit of wildlife and for our benefit to combat climate change. Sen. Elizabeth Warren D Mass. was not asked Wednesday about how she would approach Americas public lands and waters despite being the only candidate to release a comprehensive plan specific to protecting them. Her policy vision unveiled in April includes overturning Trumps land rollbacks a moratorium on oil and gas leases on federal land and recruiting 10000 youth and veterans for a 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps. Its not enough to end our public lands contribution to climate change Warren wrote in an announcement at the time. We have an enormous opportunity to make them a part of the climate solution and for both economic and environmental reasons we should take it. All 10 candidates that participated in the CNN climate forum have voiced support for the Green New Deal the landmark resolution unveiled in February by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. and Sen. Ed Markey D Mass. and that outlined lofty goals of reaching net zero emissions by midcentury. Supporters of the Green New Dealhave said public land is key to its success. The plan calls for ensuring that public lands waters and oceans are protected and restoring and protecting threatened endangered and fragile ecosystems. Questions posed to candidates on Wednesday varied and not all were asked about public land and conservation. But nearly all have policy proposals that drive home the need for the nation to be a better environmental steward. Former Rep. Beto ORourke Texas says he would go beyond previous presidents to protect our most wild beautiful and biodiverse places for generations to come including more of the Arctic and of our sensitive landscapes and seascapes than ever before.	False	False	False	False	False
Lab grown meat has been successfully cultured in space for the first time. The Israeli food technology startup Aleph Farms grew the meat on the International Space Station 248 miles 399 km away from any natural resources. Bovine cells were harvested on Earth and taken to space where they were grown into small scale muscle tissue using a 3D bioprinter. The method relies on mimicking a natural process of muscle tissue regeneration occurring inside a cows body. The experiment took place on 26 September on the Russian segment of the space station and involved the assembly of small scale muscle tissue in a 3D bioprinter under controlled microgravity conditions. In future the technique could be used to provide meat for people living on the space station. The development marks a further step forward for a nascent industry that aims to provide people with real meat without the environmental impact and welfare problems of intensive livestock production. In December Aleph Farms announced it had produced a prototype strip of steak grown from cells in the lab in two weeks although it admitted the taste needed to be improved. We are proving that cultivated meat can be produced anytime anywhere in any condition said Didier Toubia co founder and chief executive of Aleph Farms. We can potentially provide a powerful solution to produce the food closer to the population needing it at the exact and right time it is needed. In space we dont have 10000 or 15000 litres of water available to produce 1kg of beef added Toubia. This joint experiment marks a significant first step toward achieving our vision to ensure food security for generations to come while preserving our natural resources. Recent scientific studies have found that huge reductions in meat eating are essential in order to cut greenhouse gas emissions and avoid dangerous climate change. One found that avoiding meat and dairy products was the single biggest way to reduce an individuals environmental impact on the planet.	False	False	False	False	False
Energy and investment executives who met with Pope Francis earlier in June stood mostly in agreement that a tax on carbon emissions is the best path forward to combating climate change. Pope Francishosted a two day summit at the Vatican on June 8 and 9 inviting key players in the oil and gas industry for a back and forth discussion on climate change. The leader of the Catholic Church encouraged executives to give up fossil fuels and embrace renewable energy technology. The meeting was just the latest in a series of public moves the pope has made against traditional forms of electricity production. Most who took part in the summit agreed that afee on carbon emissions is pivotal in reforming the U.S. energy sector according to an Axios report. Ernest Moniz who served as an energy secretary under the Obama administration took part in the summit and said one of the areas of focus was carbon pricing to create market incentives for the transition to a low carbon system. Key members who met with Pope Francis includeExxonMobil Chief Executive Darren WoodsBP CEOBob Dudley Equinor CEOEldar Saetre and numerous others. The idea of a carbon tax a fee charged onto companies according to the amount of carbon emissions their plants emit into the atmosphere has been recommended as a market friendly method to controlling CO2 pollution. While carbon tax proposals appeared popular at the Vatican it has not garnered the same amount of support in Congress. Majority Whip Steve Scalise and West Virginia Rep. David McKinley introduced a House resolution in April that explicitly condemns a tax on carbon dioxide pollution. RELATEDPope Criticizes Oil Executives Silent On Ireland Legalizing Abortion In a public letter of support for Scalises resolution a group of conservative organizations claimed thata carbon tax would ultimately result in a loss of jobs and higher electricity bills For example a 2014 Heritage Foundation report found that a 37 per ton carbon tax would lead to a loss of more than 2.5 trillion in aggregate gross domestic product by 2030. That is more than 21000 in income loss per family a portion of the letter read. In addition a carbon tax would cost over 500000 jobs in manufacturing and more than 1 million jobs by 2030. According to a 2013 CBO report a carbon tax is highly regressive. House members have yet to vote on the anti carbon tax resolution. However the lower chamber of Congresspasseda similar version in June 2016 collecting six Democratic votes and zero Republicans opposition. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	False	False	False	False
Over the last two weeks weve heard a lot of folderol and bambosh about Republicans conservatives Texans etc. not believing in science because recent hurricanes have been bad and climate change is causing it and blah blah blah. As you can probably tell I dont think much of all that. We had a historic lull in hurricanes until the lull was over. Once the hurricanes started back up so did the claim that climate change caused the hurricanes just as the scientists predicted the same scientists who didnt predict the lull. Similarly California had a historic drought that recently came to an end. Most of the climate models say that California should get wetter because of global warming. But that didnt stop President Obama and others from suggesting the dry spell was a symptom of climate change. Then when California experienced huge amounts of precipitation suddenly the models were prescient. But look I dont want to debate global warming because a its boring to me b you get screamed at by people who act like we have seconds to act before the world ends and c you or at least I also get screamed at by people who insist its all a complete hoax. For those interested Im basically in the Matt Ridley lukewarmercamp. Now back to my point. This whole dont believe in science canard amounts to ackamarackus bordering on flimflam. Even if you were a 100 percent denier of climate change that wouldnt necessarily mean you dont believe in science. Indeed many of the hardcore rejectionists I know are really really really into the science of climate change tell the guys at CEI they dont believe in science I dare you. They just tend to think the prevailing consensus is a politically and journalistically contrived sham. But even if you are a denier without being a science dork that doesnt necessarily mean you dont believe in science. Rejecting one scientific finding whether accurate or inaccurate doesnt mean you must reject all science never mind suggest that you dont believe in it. To be honest I dont know what people who say you dont believe in science think they mean when they say it. Climate deniers dont insist the world is flat though I have to assume flat earthers have unconventional views on atmospheric science. They dont refuse to take medical treatment or prescribed drugs. They have faith that the internal combustion engine is based on sound science. Etc. Often when I stupidly engage people who sincerely claim that Republicans or conservatives dont believe in science I like to point out that many liberals and leftists have problems with science too. People who want to ban golden rice or other GMOs people who deny that a fetus is a whole human people who insist fetal pain is a myth people who get outraged by claims that say men cant get pregnant. The list goes on and on. And yet I dont argue that Democrats dont believe in science. You know why? Because that would be stupid. Anyway what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning. Apparently researchers claim they can tell whether youre a homosexual or lesbian by using facial recognition software. The results arent perfect they claim but the computers apparently do better than humans at guessing which team you play for or secretly want to play for but dont. Not surprisingly gay rights groups are angry! They dont like it! And to be honest I can understand why. But thats not the point. Both GLAAD and Human Rights Watch cant seem to decide whether the science is bad because its fake and flawed or bad because it might work. A representative of GLAAD said something interesting Technology cannot identify someones sexual orientation. Wait a second. Who says? Maybe this effort isnt up to snuff yet. But saying that technology can never identify someones sexual orientation strikes me as pretty anti sciencey unless were now back to saying sexual orientation is a choice which opens a whole new kettle of fish. Anyway Im not sure what I think about this technology or its ramifications but I have no problem with the notion that science will be able to figure out these things and well probably find out that some things are wired some are a choice and most are a mix of the two. The point is that opponents dont like this science because of the political and social consequences of it. Maybe theres a parallel here with some deniers of climate change. But only those deniers get accused of not believing in science. READ MORE How to Recognize Science Denial Progressives Claim to Love Science But What They Truly Love Is Power Climate Change Activists Are the Real Science Deniers Jonah Goldberg is a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior editor at National Review.	False	False	False	False	False
The New York Times has taken warnings about global warming to a whole new level publishing a three part series suggesting a potential apocalypse from melting ice sheets if humans keep pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. If that ice sheet were to disintegrate it could raise the level of the sea by more than 160 feet a potential apocalypse depending on exactly how fast it happened NYT reporter Justin Gillis wrote of what some scientists predict could happen to Antarctica. Gillis points to recent research suggesting the collapse of the ice sheet will become inevitable likening the projected 160 foot sea level rise to flood stories from the Epic of Gilgamesh tothe Bibles Old Testament. In the Epic of Gilgamesh waters so overwhelm the mortals that the gods grow frightened too Gillis wrote In Indias version Lord Vishnu warns a man to take refuge in a boat carrying seeds. In the Bible God orders Noah to carry two of every living creature on his ark. I dont think the biblical deluge is just a fairy tale Terence Hughes a retired glaciologist told Gillis. I think some kind of major flood happened all over the world and it left an indelible imprint on the collective memory of mankind that got preserved in these stories. That flooding would have occurred at the end of the last ice age Gillis reported. Of course he left out the part about Antarctic ice sheet melting taking place over a couple thousands years. Now the research Gillis points to is a worst scenario based on a Parallel Ice Sheet Model as reported by scientists in a 2015 study. Models can be useful tools to test complex climate interactions but they are still projections not facts. That 2015 study found half the Antarctic ice sheet would melt or fall into the sea in the first thousand years based on model projections according to a previous NYT report. The first installment of Gilliss three part series claimed Antarctica may have entered the early stages of an unstoppable disintegration but later in the series admitted the glacier NYT reporters toured with scientists seems stable now. Even so the effects of any current global warming on Antarctica are unclear. The South Poles western ice sheet has been shedding mass for decades but part of that has to do with underground volcanic activity and the fact the ice sheet rests on water. Recent evidence suggests the Antarctic peninsula has been cooling since the late 1990s. A recent study found the region has shifted from a warming trend of 0.32 Cdecade during 19791997 to a cooling trend of 0.47 Cdecade during 19992014. Antarcticas eastern ice sheet seems more stable and may have even been gaining mass in recent decades. A 2015 study by NASA found Antarcticas ice sheet increased in mass from 1992 to 2008. The study found ice gains in Eastern Antarctica offset ice loss from the west. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	False	False	False	False	False
One of the attorneys heading New York Citys climate litigation made comments in September that could seriously harm the citys mission to sue oil companies for contributing to global warming. New York Citys climate lawsuits are ultimately designed to target the industrys financial bottom line Susan Amron the chief of the environmental law division of the New York City Law Department said at a Sept. 26 panel discussion during the Climate Week NYC. Sowere not saying you cant use fossil fuels thats a different part of the citys efforts Amron said during the panel noting also that the lawsuit is designed to impress on companies the need to internalize the costs fossil fuels impose on cities. She appeared to contradict herself a few sentences later telling the audience that the intent is really to eliminate the oil industrys license to operate. Andreally what were trying to do is affect the bottom line the financial equation for the use of fossil fuels she said. We just acted and I want to urge every city every county every state to do the same divest. Divest from the fossil fuel industry De Blasio told the Vermont Democrat at the time. Lets help bring the death knell to this industry thats done so much harm. The lawsuit was dismissed in July a handful of months after De Blasio made his comment. Judge John Keenan wrote in hisopinionat the time that legislative branch was the appropriate arena to address global warming. NYCs lawsuit does appear to suggest the intent is not to destroy but rather to mitigate harm. The City does not seek to impose liability on Defendants for their direct emissions of greenhouse gases anddoes not seek to restrain Defendants from engaging in their business operations the city wrote in its complaint. Amrons admission will likely create challenges forthe citys appeal which is slated to begin in front of the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals soon. Neither Amron nor New York Citys Law Department have responded to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for an explanation about the lawsuit is designed to hammer the oil industry or for mitigation purposes. Other climate lawsuits across the country are similarly on the ropes. Cities in California Colorado and Rhode Island have also filed similar lawsuits against energy producers over the past year. They argue that Exxon and others should pony up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change. A judge dismissed lawsuits in Oakland and San Francisco arguing that the U.S. Congress is only the governmental body responsible for enacting policies needed to mitigate global warming. Manufacturers and conservative groups worry trial attorneys are behind the spat of climate litigation. Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings called a contingency fee.RELATED Trial Lawyers Handling Cities Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions Hagens Bermanstood to earn billions of dollarsin contingency fees depending on the total winnings from a favorable judgement against oil companies. The three cities claimed billions of dollars worth of damage from global warming induced by fossil fuels.	False	False	False	False	False
In one of South Floridascongressional districts the party machine swept in to prop up a two term incumbent by painting his opponent as a puppet of fossil fuel interests and dirty coal money. The only catch? The incumbent is Republican Rep. Carlos Curbelo and the party apparatus is the National Republican Congressional Committee whose coffers this cycle contain nearly 7 million in donations from the oil and gas industry. The ad was released on Oct. 30 and immediatelynational environmental groups that generally align with Democrats called foul underscoring their support of Curbelos Democratic challenger Debbie Mucarsel Powell. If Curbelo had been half the climate champion he claims he is he wouldnt be desperately seeking an ad littered with lies such as this said Sierra Club PAC Director Sarah Burton in a statement. But Curbelo isnt a climate champion hes a consistent vote against clean energy against our public lands and in favor of fossil fuels. Debbie Mucarsel Powell is a climate champion and the advocate South Floridians need as they watch sea levels rise see beaches destroyed by red tide and live with the increasing threat of stronger more powerful hurricanes. Curbelo has received more than 192000 from energy and natural resource firms in comparison tothe less than 5000 thatMucarsel Powellhas received from the same sector of donors according tothe Center for Responsive Politics. A spokesperson forMucarsel Powells campaign did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Curbelo is one of thefounders of the Climate Solutions Caucus a bipartisangroup in Congress ostensibly committedto fighting global warming but restricted in practice by the reliance ofits 45 Republicanmembers on support from oil and gas firms. While he broke ranks this summer to express his support for a carbon tax as a possible way to combat climate change more than 30 of Curbelos Republican colleagues on the caucus supported a symbolic measure that disavowed a carbon tax. Last December he joined caucus members in a budget vote that would have openedup 1.5 million acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil and gas drillingMother Jonesreported at the time. The latest forecast from polling aggregatorFiveThirtyEighthas Curbelo trailing by less than one percentage point. The super PAC Climate Hawks Vote which supports candidates with a progressive energy agendahas been running ads against Curbelo that point to his history of receiving donations from fossil fuel companies including Chevron and Exxon Mobil.This cycle hisNo. 1 donorhas been NextEra Energy the Florida electric utility which is one of the largest purveyors of solar and wind energy projects in the country. We sure appreciate the help from the NRCC in calling out politicians who take dirty fossil fuel money and then obstruct progress on climate change and are looking forward to similar NRCC ads attacking every single one of their own candidates said RL Miller Climate Hawks Votes political director in a statement. We only wish the ad had noted how much Carlos Curbelo has taken from Big Oil.	False	False	False	False	False
Upside down rivers of warm ocean water may be one of the causes of Antarctica's ice shelves breaking up leading to a rise in sea levels. A new study suggests that in the past increases in Antarctic sea ice in colder climates may have contributed to ice ages. Using computer simulations the research looked at past changes during the glacial periods and noted that previous increases in sea ice levels may have significantly altered the circulation of the ocean which led to a reverse greenhouse effect as carbon dioxide levels in the ocean increased and levels in the air decreased. One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement. We are pretty confident that the carbon balance between the atmosphere and ocean must have changed but we dont quite know how or why. ANTARCTICA'S ICE SHEETS CONTAIN RADIOACTIVE CHLORINE GAS 60 YEARS AFTER NUCLEAR TESTS STUDY SAYS The last major ice age ended at the end of the Pleistocene epoch about 11700 years ago as glaciers have periodically grown and then gotten smaller. Researchers believe that changes to the Earth's orbit may be partly responsible for some of the Earth's cooling but additional factors have likely played a part Jensen added. The most plausible explanation is that there was some change in how carbon was divided between the atmosphere and the ocean Jansen continued. Theres no shortage of ideas about how this happens but its not quite clear how they all fit together. Researchers also believe a mini ice age may have occurred roughly 12800 years ago. It likely stems from an asteroid impact that rocked the Northern Hemisphere and led to the Younger Dryas climate event. Jansen pointed out that the Southern Ocean around Antarctica plays a key role in ocean circulation due to the deep waters in the region leading it to have outsized consequences. AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING NEW STUDY FINDS What this suggests is that its a feedback loop said the study's lead author Alice Marzocchi. As the temperature drops less carbon is released into the atmosphere which triggers more cooling. What surprised me is how much of this increased storage can be attributed to physical changes alone with Antarctic sea ice cover being the key player Marzocchi added noting that future study of the ocean and the role it plays in the carbon cycle can help simulate future environmental change. The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events. It was only about past events.	False	False	False	False	False
Environmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi this past December. They plan more sit ins to push for support of a sweeping resolution to address climate change. J. Scott ApplewhiteAP hide caption toggle caption J. Scott ApplewhiteAP Environmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi this past December. They plan more sit ins to push for support of a sweeping resolution to address climate change. J. Scott ApplewhiteAP For a nonbinding resolution with an uncertain future the Green New Deal Green New Deal FINAL is getting a lot of attention along with a decidedly mixed reaction. Dozens of Democrats on Thursday introduced alexandria ocasio cortez releases green new deal outlinethe measure an ambitious framework for future legislation designed to eliminate the U.S. carbon footprint by 2030. Our energy future will not be found in the dark of a mine but in the light of the sun said Sen. Ed Markey D Mass. as he announced the legislation on Capitol Hill. The resolution has few details but it aims to overhaul the U.S. economy and spread wealth more evenly. It calls for a speedy shift in energy generation from fossil fuels to renewable sources like wind and solar and for a fair and just transition for all communities and workers. Much of the early criticism revolves around the scope of the plan which backers say is big to match the challenge of the climate change problem. All great American programs everything from The Great Society to The New Deal started with a vision for our future said co sponsor Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. But this vision is for an extremely near term future. I'm afraid I just cannot see how we could possibly go to zero carbon in a 10 year time frame former Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz tells NPR's All Things Considered. Moniz now CEO of Energy Futures Initiative agrees that the U.S. needs to pick up the pace of its shift away from carbon but he calls the decade long time frame impractical. He worries it could turn off key constituencies needed in the climate effort including labor unions oil companies and the business community. I'm afraid I just cannot see how we could possibly go to zero carbon in a 10 year time frame. Ernest Moniz former energy secretary and CEO of Energy Futures Initiative The Green New Deal doesn't even mention some of the usual ideas for addressing climate change such as a carbon tax or cap and trade program. Instead it calls for lots of spending to create among other things infrastructure and transport that don't rely on fossil fuels. Environmental groups generally support the resolution. It is a breath of fresh air to see leaders in Congress discussing climate solutions that rise to the scale of the challenge said Aliya Haq federal policy director for the Climate Clean Energy Program at the Natural Resources Defense Council in a statement 1. But some groups were disappointed the plan doesn't call for a complete end to using fossil fuels. We have 12 years according to science if we're going to meet the challenge of the climate crisis. And to do that we have to tackle fossil fuels head on. And the resolution just doesn't quite get us there says Nicole Ghio senior fossil fuel program manager at Friends of the Earth. The oil industry says it's already reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the electricity sector as coal plants switch to natural gas. They need to do a whole lot more homework These days transportation accounts for the largest share of greenhouse gas emissions greenhouse gas emissions. Green New Deal backers say they want more high speed trains to make airline travel less necessary and more electric cars and charging stations. But experts warn that changing the existing fleet of cars in the U.S. would be an extraordinary effort. There's 350 million liquid fuel cars on the road today in the United States and most Americans don't buy a new car except every decade says Amy Myers Jaffe director of the program on Energy Security and Climate Change at the Council on Foreign Relations. Green New Deal backers say they also want to eventually phase out nuclear energy which currently supplies 20 percent of electricity in the U.S. The Nuclear Energy Institute argues in a statement nei statement on green new deal that its electricity is carbon free and should be a part of any program addressing climate change. The proposal takes aim at methane from cows too. Methane is an especially potent greenhouse gas and cows produce a lot of it. But the beef industry is at a loss to respond because of the lack of details in the Green New Deal. They need to do a whole lot more homework and much more research and analysis before we can ever even really engage in this discussion says Colin Woodall senior vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association. So far the plan's biggest success may be that it's energizing thousands of young activists. A group called the Sunrise Movement held a Web meeting with supporters email green new deal livestream recordingemailreferreremail490282emailsubjectgreen new deal livestream recording around the country Tuesday. Jeremy Ornstein 18 says he deferred going to college to work with the organization. Ornstein is among the Sunrise Movement organizers who plan three weeks of activism including lobbying members of Congress to sign onto the Green New Deal. And we're going to give our elected officials a deadline. They've got to get an answer to us by Feb. 26 or face the consequences warns Ornstein. He says activists around the country will occupy members' offices in what the group calls a nationwide day of action. Given the scope and ambitious nature of the Green New Deal it might be tempting to criticize or dismiss activists supporting it. But Amy Myers Jaffe hopes older more experienced policymakers won't do that. We need not to discourage them she says. They have an energy and will to innovation that is not only infectious but inspiring. And she says that could be what's needed to address a problem as daunting as climate change. 	False	False	False	False	False
William Happer the White Houses most veteran climate change denier who tried unsuccessfully to establish an ad hoc panel to challenge near universally accepted climate science is leaving the Trump administration according to reports from EE Newsand Bloomberg. A retired Princeton physics professor with no expertise in climatology Happer has served as President Donald Trumps deputy assistant for emerging technologies on the National Security Council since September 2018. He has long argued that the planet and humans benefit from increased carbon dioxide emissions. He has called climate science a cult claimed Earth is in the midst of a CO2 famine and said the demonization of carbon dioxide isjust like the demonization of the poor Jewsunder Hitler. Earlier this year TrumptappedHapper to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting adversarial scientific peer review of climate science part of the administrations relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis. The White House ultimately scrapped the plan as EE News reported in July. News of Happers departure comes one day after the resignation of his boss national security adviser John Bolton. It was Bolton who recruited Happer to the National Security Council and backed his effort to create an anti science panel according to The New York Times. The CO2 Coalition a right wing think tank that Happer co founded and that argues Earth benefits from humans pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere confirmedhis upcoming resignation in a Tuesday post to its website and praised him for his efforts. While your proposed review of alarmist analyses and projections has been delayed we believe your work in calling attention to the problem of unscientific climate alarmism has reduced the chances of the dramatic increases in energy prices that would arise from the banning of fossil fuels that some have proposed Patrick Moore and Caleb Rossiter two representatives of the CO2 Coalition wrote in a joint statement. The CO2 Coalition is one of several think tanks that peddle misinformation about climate change and receive funding from the Mercer familythe billionaire megadonors whogave more than 15 million to Trumps 2016 campaign.	False	False	False	False	False
PresidentDonald Trumpproclaimed himself an 'environmentalist' Monday after missing a climate changediscussion on Monday with other world leaders at the G7 summit in Biarritz France. At a press conference the president said he knows 'more about the environment than most people' in part due to his time as a builder when environmental concerns often pose last minute roadblocks to a project. At a summit where relentless fires in the Amazon provided a backdrop Trump did not respond directly when asked if he still harbored doubts about global warming vouching for his environmental credentials by pointing to numerous environmental impact statements he has been involved with. 'I went the cleanest water on earth. I want to cleanest air on earth. And that's what we're doing. I'm an environmentalist' Trump told reporters at the end of the summit. 'A lot of people don't understand that I have done more environmental impact statements probably than anybody that's I guess I can say definitely because I've done many many many of them. More than anybody that's ever been president or vice president or anything even close to president. And I think I know more about the environment than most people' he said. Trump was referencing his time as a builder when an environmental review is part of the construction process. Although he steered clear of the global warming debate after long expressing doubts Trump touted the value of U.S. oil and liquified national gas reserves and called for new infrastructure to harness it. He said the domestic industry is creating 'tremendous wealth and LNG is being sought over all over Europe and all over the world.' 'Im not going to lose that wealth. Im not going to lose it on dreams on windmills which frankly arent working too well' Trump said once again taking a shot at a growing renewable energy source. 'I want clean air. I want clean water I want a wealthy country. I want a spectacular country with jobs with pensions with so many things and that's what we're getting so I want to be very careful at the same time at the same time it's very important to me very important to me we have to maintain this incredible this incredible place that we've all built. We've become much richer country and that's a good thing not a bad thing because that great wealth allows us to take care of people' Trump said. He concluded his remarks with some environmental boosterism. 'We can take care of people that we couldn't afford taking care of the past because of the great wealth we can't let that wealth is taken away clean air clean water thank you very much everybody I appreciate it thank you' he concluded. Trump was scheduled to attend the session on climate biodiversity and oceans but his chair remained empty while other leaders pledged a modest 20 million to help put out fires that are raging across wide swaths of the Amazon jungles in Brazil. 'He wasnt in the room but his team was there' French President Emmanuel Macron said. The White House attributed his absence to scheduled one on one meetings that he attended withIndia's Prime Minister Narendra Modi andGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel both of whom managed to attend. 'The President had scheduled meetings and bilaterals with Germany and India so a senior member of the Administration attended in his stead' White House Press Secretary Stephanie Grisham told DailyMail.com and other news outlets. A White House official said the stand in was an aide from the National Security Council. Trump started the morning behind schedule. His meeting with Merkel was delayed about two hours. Asked about the global warming meeting during a photo op with Merkel the president said 'Were having it in a little while.' He had no reply to a journalist who informed him that it was already underway. During his meeting with Modi Trump said that he wants 'clean air and clean water' but made no comment about his decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate accord. He did offer however that the climate change discussion would be his next stop. That never materialized. Trump is a climate change skeptic who once claimed it was a hoax invented by the Chinese. United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres said Monday that the world faces 'a dramatic climate emergency.' He will ask leaders at a Sept. 23 summit in New York to agree to cut greenhouse gas emissions by more than they promised in the 2015 Paris agreement. Guterres said Monday that 'we are much worse than we were during Paris ... and so it's absolutely essential that countries commit themselves to increase what was promised.' Guterres claimed that Greenland's ice cap was melting 'dramatically' and that 2015 through 2019 were 'the five hottest years on record.'	False	False	False	False	False
According toDaniel Rothman professor of geophysics in the MIT Department of Earth Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences and co director of MITs Lorenz Center we are fast approaching thresholds of catastrophe in the carbon cycle which make doom almost inevitable. In a paper published today inScience Advances he proposes that mass extinction occurs if one of two thresholds are crossed For changes in the carbon cycle that occur over long timescales extinctions will follow if those changes occur at rates faster than global ecosystems can adapt. For carbon perturbations that take place over shorter timescales the pace of carbon cycle changes will not matter instead the size or magnitude of the change will determine the likelihood of an extinction event. Taking this reasoning forward in time Rothman predicts that given the recent rise in carbon dioxide emissions over a relatively short timescale a sixth extinction will depend on whether a critical amount of carbon is added to the oceans. That amount he calculates is about 310 gigatons which he estimates to be roughly equivalent to the amount of carbon that human activities will have added to the worlds oceans by the year 2100. If we get a repeat of the Great Dying 275 million years ago what this means basically is that we are all going to die. Even you. But before you ring up your grandchildren and warnthem to cancel the marquee theyve booked for their 100th birthday celebrations perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothmans cheery prediction. First lets not forget it that itis flatly contradicted by the recent bombshell study suggesting that the effects of carbon dioxide on global warming have been overstated that the computer models are running too hot and that were not about to fry any time soon. Second Rothman appears to have given himself so much margin for error as to render his doomsday projection meaningless. Does this mean that mass extinction will soon follow at the turn of the century? Rothman says it would take some time about 10000 years for such ecological disasters to play out. However he says that by 2100 the world may have tipped into unknown territory. This is not saying that disaster occurs the next day Rothman says. Its saying that if left unchecked the carbon cycle would move into a realm which would be no longer stable and would behave in a way that would be difficult to predict. In the geologic past this type of behavior is associated with mass extinction. R i g h t. So what youre saying Dr Rothman is that youre allowing plus or minus 10000 years leeway for this mass extinction which wont definitely happen but which may happen. Do you know what? Even though Im not a professor of geophysics at MIT I think even I could have come up with a scientific theory as rock solid and testable as that one.	False	False	False	False	False
Its true that not all the sea ice is gone yet but much of what remains is thin enough that the light passing through it is allowing algae blooms. In many places it is cracked and subject to being broken up by storms which due to the extremes of heat and cold confronting eachother in that region have extremes of wind and wave. The Jacobshaven Glacier delivering 10 of the ice melt from Greenlands ice caps to the sea no longer flows at a glacial pace but rather is retreating at 10 kmyr with the rate of retreat increasing at an increasing rate just as with the sea ice. Instead of climate changing over millennia we are now seeing it change in ways we can observe with our own eyes in the course of a season. Even as some scientists are still looking at what happened during the second half of the 20th century at a scale of change over decades others are beginning to address the significant acceleration of changes observed year by year. A link to a number of papers since 2015 showing dramatic climate change globally and in particular with extremes at the poles is still controversial to some. Dramatic climate change is affecting both the Arctic and West Antarctica yet the relative roles of local versus remote forcings in causing the changes are being debated. As global climate change continues to unfold the two way links between the tropics and the poles will play key determining factors in the climatic evolution of these sensitive regions. Thus the time is ripe for a detailed look at how the tropics and the poles are coupled climatically. This special collection of the Journal of Climate on Connecting the Tropics to Polar Regions grew out of a mini conference on the same topic that was held at Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory in June 2014 ConferenceWeb.html Removal of the sea ice from over the ESAS allows storms to churn up the bottom sediments speeding the release of Methane. Methane releases speed up the melting of the permafrost. The permafrost stores huge amounts of methane and fresh water. We have known this since 2007. A policy briefing from the Woods Hole Research Center concludes that the IPCC doesnt adequately account for a methane warming feedback While most attention has been given to carbon dioxide it isnt the only greenhouse gas that scientists are worried about. Carbon dioxide is the most important human emitted greenhouse gas but methane has also increased in the atmosphere and it adds to our concerns. As the Earth warms and the Arctic warms especially fast the permafrost melts and soil decomposition accelerates. Consequently an initial warming leads to more emission leading to more warming and more emission. It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self reinforcing cycle takes over. Recently a policy briefing from the world leading Woods Hole Research Center has moved our understanding of this risk further through a clearly written summary. The briefing cites two recent papers here and here that study the so called permafrost carbon feedback. One of these studies makes use of projections from the most recent IPCC report to estimate that up to 205 gigatons equivalent of carbon dioxide could be released due to melting permafrost. This would cause up to 0.5C up to 0.9F extra warming. Arctic scientists warn that the release of the methane from the ESAS could happen with the same surprising acceleration we see with glaciers sea ice and the polar ice caps melting and have a huge effect on the melt rate of the permafrost. Just as bad the permafrost melting would continue after 2100 which would lock us into even more warming. Under this scenario meeting a 2C limit would be harder than anticipated. The current IPCC targets do not adequately account for this feedback. This is essentially what arctic scientists have been warning about for a decade now but pointing out that the time scale is no longer centuries but just years and this is another reason why the IPCC is moving up their next report date	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON The Environmental Protection Agency is drawing heat for pulling its scientists from a paneldiscussion Monday in Rhode Island as part of a conference spotlighting the effects of climate change on the Narragansett Bay. The withdrawal of the two scientists as well as an agency consultanthas sparked fresh criticism about EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt'sskepticism toward the broad scientific community's conclusion that human caused global warming is a proven fact and a growing concern. The conference where the scientists were scheduled to speak coincidedwith the release of a report showing the threats of climate change to NarragansettBay the 196 square mile estuary whose watershed encompasses 1705 square miles with more than100towns and cities that are home to nearly 2 million people. Climate change is affecting air and water temperatures precipitation sea level and fish in the Narragansett Bay region the report which was partially funded by the EPAconcludes. Narragansett Bay is one of 28 estuaries that make up the National Estuary Program an EPA program designed to protect and restore the water quality and ecological integrity of estuaries of national significance. Rhode Island's two U.S. senators Democrats Jack Reed and Sheldon Whitehouse criticized the EPA's decision during an appearance Monday at the conference in Providence R.I. This has traditionally been a bipartisan issue Whitehouse said citing former Rhode Island GOP Sen. John Chafee's role establishing the estuaryprogram. So there is no reason for it to have to be this way. And it should not take away from the terrific scientific work that is being done because at the heart of all this is not the politics its the knowledge. Reed said he was disheartened and disappointed that the EPA scientists were not allowed to publicly present their findings. This type of political interference or scientific censorship whatever you want to call it is ill advised and does a real disservice to the American peopleand public health. Scientific evidenceand input iscrucial to policy efforts. It informs decision makers. We can debate the issues we can have different viewpointsbut we should all be able to objectively examine the data and look at the evidence ... Now is not the time to turn a blind eye to what science is telling us that climate change and other factors are influencing the health of this estuary ... I hope the Trump administration will look at the facts read this report and reconsider its stance on trying to muzzle scientists who present evidence that doesn't conform to their political agenda. The EPA has not responded to a request for comment. Agency spokesmanJohn Konkus told The Washington Postin an email Sunday that EPA scientists are attending they simply are not presenting it is not an EPA conference. The agency officials initially scheduled to speak during the conference areAutumn Oczkowski a research ecologist at the EPAs National Health and Environmental Effects Research Laboratory Atlantic Ecology Division in Rhode Island andRose Martin a postdoctoral fellow at the same EPAlaboratory according to The New York Times which first reported the story. Emily Shumchenia an EPAconsultant was also scheduled to take part in an afternoon panel titled The Present and Future Biological Implications of Climate Change. Analysis Is the war on coal really over?	False	False	False	False	False
In the wake of Hurricane Irma the New York Times advanced the climate change agenda from every angle in Tuesdays edition. First up the paper featured more odd respect for religion from its colorful left wing reporter Jason Horowitz in Pope in the Air Puts Foot Down on Climate Change Denial and DACA Reversal. The text box The pontiff says pro life believers must defend the unity of the family. And another Times reporter stuck up for the tasteless global warming warriors using Hurricane Irma to forward climate change. A paper loathe to credit Christianity for pro life or traditional marriage views readily broadcasts the left wing views of Pope Francis and in particular his bashing of Donald Trump As he flew near Caribbean islands devastated by Hurricane Irma on his way back to the Vatican from Colombia on Sunday Pope Francis said that political leaders and others who denied climate change reminded him of a passage from the psalms about mans stubbornness. Man is stupid the Bible said he said. Its like that when you dont want to see you dont see. In a typically wide ranging news conference that included his questioning of United States President Donald J. Trumps commitment to issues of life because of his plan to strip undocumented immigrant children of protections from deportation the pope urged those who denied climate change to consult scientists who had clearly determined it was real and that humanity would go down if global warming was not recognized and addressed. Then he said decide and history will judge the decisions. During Mr. Trumps May visit to the Vatican the pope gave him a copy of his 2015 encyclical letter Laudato Si which called for a human response to global warming and top Vatican officials appealed to the president not to withdraw from the landmark Paris climate accord. Weeks later Mr. Trump pulled out of the agreement. It wasnt just global warming. Horowitz also used Pope Francis to criticize Trumps move to end DACA On the flight the pope nevertheless appealed again to Mr. Trump this time on his decision to end President Obamas Deferred Action for Children Program known as DACA. The program allows children brought illegally to the United States to stay without fear of deportation. Mr. Trump has given Congress which has failed to pass immigration overhaul for the last decade six months to enact legislation to resolve the status of about 800000 people affected by his decision. When the Times doesnt challenge a pro life message better read closely. I hope they rethink it a bit he said. Because I heard the U.S. president speak. He presents himself as a man who is pro life. If he is a good pro life believer he must understand that family is the cradle of life and one must defend its unity said Francis who in the past has said that advocates like Mr. Trump of a wall to keep out migrants on the Mexican border were not Christian. Horowitz showed himself not so fond of more conservative Catholics in an August report for the Times in which he made common cause with a piece making the rounds of Catholic intellectual circles singling out ultraconservative Trump supporting conservatives as dangerous From the Vatican a Warning Shot for Hard Line Catholics in the U.S. Meanwhile reporter Lisa Friedman on Tuesday used a comment from the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to stick up for the tasteless global warming warriors now using the tragedy of Hurricane Irma to forward their environmental agenda in For E.P.A. Chief Discussing Climate After Storms Is Insensitive. The text box Concerns that the U.S. is dodging questions on global warming. Friedman found a Republican to mouth concern over climate change and promptly teed him up in paragraph two while instantly identifying her by party something the paper consistently fails to do with Democrats in trouble Scott Pruitt the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency says it is insensitive to discuss climate change in the midst of deadly storms. Toms Regalado the Republican mayor of Miami whose citizens raced to evacuate before Hurricane Irma says if not now when? For scientists drawing links between warming global temperatures and the ferocity of hurricanes is about as controversial as talking about geology after an earthquake. But in Washington where science is increasingly political the fact that oceans and atmosphere are warming and that the heat is propelling storms into superstorms has become as sensitive as talking about gun control in the wake of a mass shooting. Ben Kirtman a professor of atmospheric science at the University of Miamis Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science said he believes failing to discuss climate change hurts Florida and the entire country. Dr. Kirtman and Dr. Berry are among a group of Florida scientists who confronted Governor Rick Scott in recent years for his refusal to acknowledge that human made greenhouse gases are driving climate change. Last year they wrote a letter to then candidate Donald J. Trump asking for a meeting to discuss the consequences of climate change in Florida. They said the Trump campaign never responded. In Florida scientists say Gov. Scotts aversion to even the words climate change have prompted scientists to self censor their work. If you write a proposal and it talks about fixing some infrastructure because of climate change its not going anywhere Mr. Kirtman said. You spend an awful lot of effort word searching your document for the words climate and change. Its silliness. That is one reason many scientists maintain it is critical to use the megaphone that the dual devastation of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma has provided. People they note are finally paying attention. Friedman cited an obscure news source to make her case of benighted Republicans ignoring the obvious facts of climate change	False	False	False	False	False
Two Republican House members have signed their name onto bipartisan carbon tax legislation a bill that stands virtually zero chance of passing during the lame duck session. GOP Reps. Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania and Francis Rooney of Florida are to introduce a carbon tax bill on Tuesday alongside Florida Democratic Rep. Ted Deutch.TheEnergy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act if passed would slap a 15 per metric ton carbon fee on fossil fuel industries. While the bill has little chance of passing it is intended to spark a debate over carbon pricing as the Democratic Party prepares to take over the lower chamber of Congress. More than a dozen federal agencies just warned us that if we dont take dramatic action climate change will knock 10 percent off of our GDP by the end of this century Deutch the bills Democratic co sponsorstated to Bloomberg Environment. Putting a price on carbon can help change the behavior of polluters. We hope our bipartisan bill will spur action on climate change before its too late. That 15 per metric ton fee would increase by 10 every year until reaching certain carbon emission targets. In order to shield citizens from higher fossil fuel prices revenue from the tax would be given back out to households.Sponsors of the legislation believe it would slash greenhouse gas emissions by one third over a 10 year period and a 90 percent cut by 2050 compared to 2015 emission levels. TheEnergy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act is notable in that itsthe first bipartisan carbon tax bill introduced in Congress in about 10 years. However given the GOP will control the Senate and White House for at least the next two years its passage appears quite bleak. The bill comes not long after an outgoing Republican lawmaker Rep. Carlos Curbelo introduced a carbon tax bill of his own this year. Cureblos bill was more stringent calling for a24 per ton fee on carbon. Much like the new bipartisan bill Curbelos was doomed to fail from the beginning and he endured attack ads from the right for even introducing it. Long considered one of the most at risk Republicans heading into Election Day Curbelo went on to lose his Miami area House seat to a Democratic challenger. Curbelo was one among many moderate Republicans on the Climate Solutions Caucus who lost re election. Altogether 13 GOP members of the bipartisan climate group lost their elections and numerous others chose to retire. RELATED A Growing Number Of Democrats Are Signing On To Ocasio Cortezs Green New Deal Republicans Fitzpatrick and Rooney both members of the Climate Solutions Caucus survived their re elections and both will continue to work with Democrats on various climate change bills in the next legislative session. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	False	False	False	False
CNN just posted an article about rising sea levels. Its good to know that the editors are much smarter than President Donald Trump or his equally climate denying Environmental Protection Agency Commissioner Scott Pruitt. The EPA matters because climate change is right up there with the national debt as a threat to national security. The DoD in a recent report says that rising sea levels will put more than a thousand military installations in serious jeopardy. But CNN is wrong in their projections. Ive just returned from Antarctica on a research trip to validate the most likely temperature and sea level rise projections in the ClyFy novel Im writing. 3F of average temperature increase and three feet of sea level rise by 2050. The scientists all agreed these were plausible. I commented Two feet by 2100? Get real. 3 feet by 2050. Talk to me after Cat 6 hurricanes blanket the Caribbean every year. Last year was just a preview. Pay attention CNN. Sea level rise is accelerating. One witty Facebook user quipped I will be dead by that time so who cares? I thought he was being sarcastic but he turned out to be dead serious. And there you have it. This is why deniers exist. They dont want to spend their own money to solve a problem that might affect their grandkids and not themselves. Its pure unadulterated selfishness. They cant accept the truth of that so they deny the science of climate change. The equation that is most dangerous according to Jeffrey Kluger of Time is n1 otherwise stated as If it matters to me it counts. If not I dont give a damn. Trump and Pruitt and others of their ilk might have greed and corruption as motives. But n1 applies to them too.	False	False	False	False	False
Any proposal to avert the climate crisis must include a full fracking ban on public and private lands Sanders said Wednesday ahead of CNNs seven hour climate change town hall. He continued calling the concept of safe fracking pure fiction and decrying the release of methane from natural gas as a major contributing factor to climate change. Fracking is a danger to our water supply. Its a danger to the air we breathe. It causes earthquakes. Its highly explosive. Safe fracking is like clean coal pure fiction Sanders continued. But most importantly methane from natural gas contributes to climate change and is setting us on a path to disaster he added. When we are in the White House we will end the era of fossil fuels and that includes fracking Sanders call to ban fracking is not necessarily new. The Vermont senator promised in March that his administration would ban fracking nationwide and rapidly move to renewable energy Sanders also called for a full ban on fracking as part of his 16 trillion Green New Deal proposal released last month. Fracking and mountaintop removal coal mining are two particularly harmful methods used to extract fossil fuels his plan states. They make surrounding communities less healthy and less safe. They must be immediately banned. Former Vice President Joe Biden D has also expressed a desire to ban fracking telling CNNs Dana Bash that his administration would work to eliminate it. Just to clarify would there be any place for fossil fuels including coal and fracking in a Biden administration Bash asked during Julys Democrat debate in Detroit. No. We would work it out. We would make sure its eliminated and no more subsidies for either one of those either any fossil fuel Biden said Ten Democrat candidates including Biden and Sanders will participate in the CNN hosted climate change town hall Wednesday evening.	False	False	False	False	False
Incoming New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez brings with her a massive online following influence she says shell deploy only in support of candidates and politicians who support her plan for a Green New Deal. The Green New Deal is something Ocasio Cortez invokes frequently in media appearances and rallies. So whats actually in it? Her office recently released the text of a proposed House rules change outlining the plan. The proposed rule change for the upcoming 116th Congress would require the creation of a Select Committee for a Green Deal that would be responsible for creating the plan by January 1 2020 with corresponding draft legislation soon after. The text of the rule change lays out the committees jurisdiction and required areas of action. Its scope and mandate for legislative authority amounts to a radical grant of power to Washington over Americans lives homes businesses travel banking and more. Early on under Jurisdiction the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national industrial economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality. In addition to achieving its goal of meeting 100 of national power demand through renewable sources the document also repeatedly states the Green New Deal will advance non environmental projects such as social economic racial regional and gender based justice. Ocasio Cortezs plan further claims it will virtually eliminate poverty The Plan for a Green New Deal and the draft legislation shall recognize that a national industrial economic mobilization of this scope and scale is a historic opportunity to virtually eliminate poverty in the United States and to make prosperity wealth and economic security available to everyone participating in the transformation. More specifically Ocasio Cortezs plan calls for within 10 years a series of lofty overhauls of American life emphasis added Between its calls for upgrading homes and overhauling travel public infrastructure and even the way Americans consume electricity the plan leaves virtually no facet of everyday life untouched. Think of how often you dont use electricity to imagine how much of your average day the plan wouldntimpact. The proposed committee would also have seemingly total oversight of American industry with a mandate for pushing union membership. Under Scope of the Plan a section on labor states the committees final plan shall Require strong enforcement of labor workplace safety and wage standards that recognize the rights of workers to organize and unionize free of coercion intimidation and harassment and creation of meaningful quality career employment. Later in the document Ocasio Cortezs plan imagines creating a national jobs force to help people participate in this transition. The Green New Deal it says shall provide all members of our society across all regions and all communities the opportunity training and education to be a full and equal participant in the transition including through a job guarantee program to assure a living wage job to every person who wants one. The plan also imagines creating governmental support for transitioning minority communities. The deal shall ensure a just transition for all workers low income communities communities of color indigenous communities rural and urban communities and the front line communities most affected by climate change pollution and other environmental harm including by ensuring that local implementation of the transition is led from the community level. More Ocasio Cortez sees this plan is being a vehicle through which social equality might finally realized through theuse of reparations to right historicalinjustices. The final Green New Deal willmitigate deeply entrenched racial regional and gender based inequalities in income and wealth including without limitation ensuring that federal and other investment will be equitably distributed to historically impoverished low income deindustrialized or other marginalized communities in such a way that builds wealth and ownership at the community level. And if that werent enough to ensure that Democratic Socialism could be fully realized in America the plan includes failsafe in the form of universal income and Medicarefor All The plan it says shall include additional measures such as basic income programs universal health care programs and any others as the select committee may deem appropriate to promote economic security labor market flexibility and entrepreneurism. Ocasio Cortez clarifies that this plan would not only need to be financed by taxpayers but also the Federal Reserve and other institutions the government can create. The end of the document contains a QA one of which deals with the plans funding The Federal Reserve can extend credit to power these projects and investments new public banks can be created as in WWII to extend credit and a combination of various taxation tools including taxes on carbon and other emissions and progressive wealth taxes can be employed. Ocasio Cortez may not be in Congress yet but she already has a plan to remake the way Americans drive commute live work and even use the financial system. Let there be little doubt how she aspires to wield power in Washington. Editors Note This post has been updated with grammatical fixes.	False	False	False	False	False
Madrid AFP A UN climate summit in Madrid was on life support Saturday after marathon negotiations between countries left them more divided than ever over on how to fight global warming and pay for its ravages. Diplomats from rich nations emerging giants and the world's poorest countries each for their own reasons found fault with a draft agreement put forward by host Chile in a botched attempt to strike common ground. Faced with fire alarm warnings from science deadly extreme weather made worse by climate change and weekly strikes by millions of young people negotiations in Madrid were under pressure to send a clear signal that governments were willing to double down in tackling the crisis. But the 12 day talks more than 24 hours after their scheduled end had retreated even further from this goal on Saturday. Simon Stiell Grenada envoy told AFP that the lack of ambition in the initial agreement text was crazy. It isn't reflective of the kids who are demonstrating on the streets the world over communities being washed away by rising sea levels he said late Saturday. We wanted provisions that were in the Paris agreement to remain and what we see at every COP it just seems to be another opportunity to erode those. Veteran observers of UN climate talks were stunned by the state of play nearly 24 hours after the negotiations had been due to close. I have never seen such a disconnect between what the science requires and the people of the world demand versus what the climate negotiations are delivering Alden Meyer strategy and policy director at the Union of Concerned Scientists told AFP. Alexandria Villasenor a 14 year old climate activist said she was disappointed in the lack of action at COP 25. The difference between the youth on the streets and the negotiations is that the youth on the streets are acting with urgency she told AFP. COP 25 has failed us and it's another year of failure. Under the Paris accord countries agreed in 2015 to work to limit global temperature rises to well below two degrees Celsius through a series of voluntary action pledges that step up over time. The push for a strengthening of voluntary carbon cutting plans is led by small island and least developed states along with the European Union. Ministers from this high ambition coalition have called out countries they see as blocking a consensus call for all countries to step up notably the United States Australia and Saudi Arabia. China and India the world's No. 1 and No. 4 carbon emitters have made it clear they see no need to improve on their current emissions reduction plans which run to 2030. These emerging giants have chosen instead to emphasise the historical responsibility of rich nations to lead the way and provide financing to poor countries. Observers told AFP Saturday evening that a possible landing ground had emerged in which China agreed to yield a little over language surrounding ambition in return for a clear reiteration of historic polluters' obligation to do more. The COP 25 summit was also meant to finalise a chapter on carbon markets in the Paris rulebook which goes into effect next year. Some nations notably Brazil and Australia want to count carbon credits accumulated under a previous climate deal as part of their commitments under the Paris goals further stymying progress. The United States which is leaving the landmark Paris climate deal next year was accused of acting as a spoiler on a number of issues vital to climate vulnerable nations. This included so called loss and damage funding to help disaster hit countries repair and rebuild. The US has not come here in good faith said Harjeet Singh climate lead with charity ActionAid. They continue to block the world's efforts to help people whose lives have been turned upside down by climate change. Even if nations in Madrid snatch victory from the jaws of defeat and agree to implement their pledges Earth is on course to warm more than 3C by 2100. If there was one time in the history when I would say governments fucked up I would say today in Madrid governments fucked up said Mohamed Adow Director of Power Shift Africa. People across the world must rise to save the planet.	False	False	False	False	False
The City of Lights Paris has been illuminated in recent days by cars set alight by thousands of protesting Yellow Vestslargely middle class people who earn their living by driving or who commute to get to work. The cause of their ire is a scheduled 25 cents per gallon increase in gas taxes and about 10 cents on diesel to fight climate change. French President Macron deeply unpopular just reversed course on the new green taxParisians are already paying about 7.06 per gallon for gasoline almost half of that in taxes. If Paris streets burned over a proposed25 cents per gallon climate change tax imagine the global conflagration over a 49 per gallon tax. Thats what a United Nations special climate report calls for in 12 years with a carbon tax of 5500 per tonequal to 49 per gallon of gasoline or diesel. Thats about 100 times todays average state and federal motor fuels tax. By 2100 the U.N. estimates that a carbon tax of 27000 per ton is needed240 per gallonto limit global warming to no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius. Of course that isnt going to happen. The economic wreckage of such a punitive tax would plunge the global economy into a permanent depressionand thats assuming politicians could enact such huge tax increases over the will of their voters. Keep in mind that the unrest in France was triggered by a looming 25 cent hike which is a little less than 10 more in taxes than French drivers already pay. To meet the 49 per gallon tax hike recommended by the U.N. fuel taxes in France would have to go up 17 fold. The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed. They dont earn enough to be part of the elite unconcerned with fuel taxes but they work hard enough that they dont qualify for the generous welfare benefits handed out to the nations poor and to newly arrived immigrants from Africa and the Middle East. Here in America Republicans in Congress passed a resolution against carbon taxes over the summer while Democrats embraced the concept in their party platform. Some incoming members of the new Democratic majority in the House are calling to create a select committee to map out a Green New Deal that would move the U.S. toward using 100 renewable energy for the electric grid while guaranteeing jobs for everyone. In the meantime opinion polls indicate that 54 of Americans do not believe global warming will cause major problems within their lifetimes. So how do climate activists get their way? Some openly talk of imposing authoritarian governance to override democratic institutions. Former NASA climate researcher James Hansen suggested in 2007 that the democratic process does not work. Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of deniers. Those who see climate change as a dire and urgent threat have some work to do to convince voters in the Western democracies to give up their way of life in exchange for unspecified benefits of a slightly less warm worldand thats assuming China India and over a billion people in Africa can be convinced not to try to pull themselves out of povertysomething that may only be done with greater use of fossil fuels. Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission. An example of the former can be seen in the new National Climate Assessment. The reports first chapter lists recent natural disasters citing this summers deadly Carr Fire in California as an example. But while the report seeks to link wildfire to climate change it glosses over the real reason fires have grown in intensity and size the 30 years of increased environmental restrictions on logging brush clearance and preventive burns that caused a massive and dangerous fuel buildupa problem that was predicted years ago and has nothing to do with global warming. The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg. Here were told that the U.S. economy will take a 10 hit by 2100 unless we reduce our carbon emissions. Two problems though the authors assume the worst case and least likely scenario with average temperatures more than 14 degrees Fahrenheit hotter by 2100 and they derive two thirds of their economic losses estimate by claiming a large amount of premature deaths due to the hotter temperatures. The latter claim is highly problematic as death rates in regions far hotter than in the U.S. arent meaningfully different when accounting for the standard of living. Why? People adapt rather easily. This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN but it is far from sound science or even good economics. The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation. And its these three things wealth growth and technology which allows humans to thrive on planet Earth not 240 per gallon fuel taxes imposed by an elite that cares not for the masses.	False	False	False	False	False
Accompanying every hurricane are numerous stories in mainstream media outlets suggesting disaster could have been averted had American elected officials done more to stop global warming which left wing pundits continue to insist is almost entirely being caused by humans carbon dioxide CO2 emissions. In article after article pundits have claimed Republicans especially President Donald Trump are in some way responsible for Hurricane Florence. The Washington Posts editorial board in an article titled Yes you can blame President Trump for Hurricane Florence even went so far as to say Trump was complicit for the storm. This is total nonsense. Not only are there countless good reasons to question the extent to which humans are contributing to global warming theres no evidence indicating hurricanes have become significantly worse as a result of global warming. As Roy Spencer Ph.D. an acclaimed climate scientist who previously worked for NASA recently stated The fact that there has been no long term change in global hurricane activity and even a 50 percent decrease in U.S. landfalling major hurricanes over the last 80 years means no one is complicit in these storms. James Agresti the president of the Just Facts think tank rightly notes data appearing in the academic journal Geophysical Research Letters show the global number and intensity of cyclones hurricanes and major hurricanes have been roughly level for the past four to five decades. Some have said Florence was made worse because of warmer ocean waters caused by climate change but thats also false. Writing for Climate Change Dispatch Michael Bastasch explains An analysis of Florences path by Cato Institute meteorologist Ryan Maue showed ocean temperatures were abnormally cool for most of the storms trek through the Atlantic Ocean. Even the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change one of the most notorious defenders of the theory humans are headed for a climate catastrophe admitted in 2012 there is low confidence in long term changes in tropical cyclone activity after accounting for past changes in observing capabilities. However over the satellite era increases in the frequency and intensity of the strongest storms in the North Atlantic are robust. However the cause of this increase is debated and there is low confidence in attribution of changes in tropical cyclone activity to human influence. And if all that werent enough its absolutely absurd to say Trump is any way responsible for global warming because even if it is true humans are the primary cause of warming carbon dioxide emissions actually dropped in Trumps first two years in office. In 2017 the United States emitted 41.8 million fewer tons of CO2 than in 2016 the largest reduction in the world. And from 2006 to 2016 the United States has averaged an annual reduction in its carbon dioxide emissions of 1.2 percent according to an analysis by BP. The reason the Washington Post and others are consistently alleging despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary that Republicans are somehow to blame for natural disasters such as Hurricane Florence is either because they know absolutely nothing about the topic or because they believe it will help Democrats win elections. Either way you should stick to what the best available science says not the fear mongering of anti conservative zealots. Justin Haskins Jhaskins is executive editor of The Heartland Institute and the co founder of StoppingSocialism.com.	False	False	False	False	False
