Progressive political elites have decided that in order to save the environment ordinary citizens must submit to radical lifestyle changes while those same elites fly around the world on private jets and enrich themselves from trade with China the worlds biggest polluter. The reality may even be worse than the headline. Not only have progressive environmentalists suggested that we all switch to a diet of bugs instead of meat especially steak because cow farts produce carbon dontcha know one Swedish scientist even suggested we devour the flesh of deceased humansto cut greenhouse emissions. This followed an article published byNewsweek in which two psychologists mused on the human taboo against cannibalism noting thatphilosophers have argued that burying the dead could be wasteful in the context of the fight against world hunger. Cannibalism for the climate thats how far theyve gone! Population control is another solution embraced by geniuses on the left. This dystopian idea attracted attention recently after Bernie Sanders brought it up at the last Democrat presidential debate saying people need to be need to curb population growth. But Sanders was merely popularizing an idea thats long been the dream of progressive environmentalists. A 2009 study estimated that every human child will produce on average 9441 metric tons of carbon dioxide. As such climate scientists were agitating for global population control long before Bernie made his comments. Looks like China despite its pollution does have something to offer the environmental movement the one child policy! Absent from Bernies argument in favor of curbing the population was an acknowledgment of what itll do to the economy and public services two things that the socialist senator allegedly cares about. An aging populace with fewer young people producing tax revenue means a crisis for public services and a shrinking economy. Of course progressives believe in opening the wests borders to admit millions of working age people from foreign countries so maybe thats their solution. Dont forget that we all have to stop driving if we want to save the climate which means we all have to pack ourselves into dense unaffordable cities instead of living in the suburbs. As left wing environmentalists remind us suburban sprawl also contributes significantly to deforestation. But are there enough affordable homes in the cities? Well that depends on how you define a home. Is a recycled sewer pipe a home? The OPod Tube House is the latest solution imagined for young people who cant afford a real house or apartment in the city. These homes are constructed from recycled industrial piping and are designed to be stacked on top of each other. If that isnt enough of a dystopian cyberpunk nightmare for you consider parasite pods small homes designed to be attached to larger structures like skyscrapers and bridges. Theyre parasitic and we must credit the architectural students who came up with the concept for their refreshingly honest choice of name because they cling to larger structures. Are you ready to be a parasite for the environment? Fried insects for lunch in your parasite pod single occupancy of course. Cycle everywhere unless you want to face crippling carbon taxes. Drink your iced latte with a paper straw dont have kids and when you die remember to donate your human flesh to a local restaurant. Meanwhile our ruling class continues to fly to climate change summits on private jets own multiple CO2 emitting homes and advocate for unrestricted trade with pollution world champ China. Do globalist progressive elites really not know why so many ordinary people hate them? Are you an insider at Google Facebook Twitter or any other tech company who wants to confidentially reveal wrongdoing or political bias at your company? Reach out to Allum Bokhari at his secure email addressallumbokhari Allum Bokhari is the senior technology correspondent at Breitbart News.	False	True	True	True	False
The Extinction Rebellion protesters arent helping their cause. THIS IS AN EMERGENCY warns the website of the Extinction Rebellion a group of climate change activists whose civil disobedience has included gluing themselves to a train and to Jeremy Corbyns fence nailing a pink boat to the ground in Oxford Circus pouring fake blood outside Downing Street holding a die in at Londons Natural History Museum and camping beneath the citys Marble Arch. What do they want? 1 For Britain to declare a climate and ecological emergency 2 for Britain to commit to net zero carbon dioxide emissions by 2025 and 3 for a special climate change citizens assembly to decide future environmental policies. When do they want it? Now. We are now facing an existential crisis the climate crisis and ecological crisis which have never been treated as crises before they have been ignored for decades said Greta Thunberg a Swedish activist addressing London demonstrators. And for way too long the politicians and the people in power have gotten away with not doing anything. Now if Ms. Thunberg who is 16 years old had been addressing Chinese American or Indian protesters I might have had some sympathy. But to suggest that Britain has ignored climate change for decades is simply untrue. Since 1990 the country has achieved a 38 percent decrease in carbon dioxide emissions and has reduced its annual emissions by more than 43 percent this despite considerable economic growth. While the Paris Agreement sets the aim for net zero carbon dioxide emissions by the year 2050 and net zero greenhouse gases by 2070 Parliament in 2008 introduced the Climate Change Act which commits the United Kingdom to reducing its annual emissions by at least 80 percent by 2050. The U.K. has also removed coal as a major electricity source. I am sympathetic to the first of their aims making the environment a political priority and declaring climate change to be a global emergency. Scientists may not be infallible but Ive seen no credible argument for why they are all wrong in the same way. However much like Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs Green New Deal the demands of the Extinction Rebellion are risibly overreaching and counterproductive. In fact their demands could be realized only through an immediate economic overhaul by people who have yet to prove their competence. Recall the five goals set out in the Green New Deal as part of a ten year plan. First to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions while providing quality jobs for all. Second to guarantee millions of good high wage jobs and economic security. Third to invest and update industry and infrastructure. Fourth to secure healthy food and a livable climate for everyone. Fifth to end oppression and bring about the redistribution of power. Recall also the much criticized supporting FAQ materials produced by Ocasio Cortezs office. Embarrassing clauses about farting cows airplanes and those unwilling to work aside this document was illuminating because it showed that those who devised the Green New Deal have in practical terms no clue what they are doing. The same is true of the Extinction Rebellion. The entire spectacle has been highly disruptive for businesses and law enforcement alone. Im extremely concerned about the impact that the protests are having on our ability to tackle issues like violent crime if they continue any longer said Sadiq Khan Londons mayor who has estimated that around 9000 police officers have been dispatched to deal with the protesters. The police have made over 1000 arrests. Perhaps this frustration explains why Adam Boulton a presenter on Sky News told an Extinction Rebellion organizer Robin Boardman on live TV that the protesters come across as incompetent middle class self indulgent people trying to tell us how to live our lives. Instead of explaining why this perception is wrong Boardman insisted with his hand on his heart that he cared deeply before storming off the set. Yes Boulton was aggressive and accusatory but so are the tactics of the Extinction Rebellion.	False	True	False	True	True
The Trump administration has held the biggest lease sale of oil and gas in US history. Environmentalists fear the auction will massively expand fossil fuel production and could lead to the next Deepwater disaster. President Donald Trump on Wednesday sold more than 77 million acres of federal waters in the Gulf of Mexico for offshore oil drilling an area twice the size of Florida. The lease sale forms part of the Trump administrations plans to increase domestic energy production by opening up new areas for oil drilling. Oil drilling in the Gulf of Mexico became increasingly controversial after the BP Deepwater Horizon disaster in 2010 which killed 11 workers and released millions of barrels of crude oil into the Gulf of Mexico. The catastrophe caused 17.2 billion worth of damage to natural resources according to a study in 2017 commissioned by the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Critics of the sale fear the expansion in offshore drilling could devastate marine life and lead to roll backs in environmental protections. Trump is selling off our oceans and selling out coastal communities and marine life to the oil industry said Kristen Monsell oceans program legal director at the Center for Biological Diversity. More drilling and less regulation will make the next Deepwater Horizon disaster only a matter of time. Whales dolphins and Gulf seafood are already marinating in oil spills and industry wastewater she added. The Interior Department said the sell off is necessary if America is to maintain energy independence. American energy production can be competitive said Vincent DeVito an energy policy advisor at the Interior Department. People need jobs the Gulf Coast states need revenue and Americans do not want to be dependent on foreign oil. he said. The Gulf of Mexico provides the US with around 1.5 million barrels of oil per day or roughly 17 percent of its national production total according to the Energy Information Administration. US crude oil output has grown by more than 20 percent since mid 2016. The oil industry welcomed the lease sale with Randall Luthi of the trade group National Oceanic Industry Association noting that the sale on Wednesday may draw more interest from industry than we have seen in recent years. Meanwhile some NGOs have questioned the economic rationale behind the sale arguing that the way in which federal assets are sold off does not serve the best interests of US taxpayers. The Project on Government Oversight warned in February that the uncompetitive lease system used by the government to auction sites allows energy companies to secure offshore leases for a pittance. It cautioned that the sale in the Gulf of Mexico means more publicly owned resources could be turned over to industry at bargain basement prices. The Center for American Progress a left leaning policy think tank has echoed this statement saying in a statement that offering a nearly unrestricted supply in a low demand market with a cut rate royalty and almost no competition is bad policy and an inexcusable waste of taxpayer resources. Like this story? Share it with a friend!	True	False	False	False	True
Several high profile Democrats who back the so called Green New Deal are now apparently supporting a new report calling for a dramatic reduction in the worlds population to stave off a climate crisis. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and Sen. Ed Markey retweeted links to a report signed by more than 11000 scientists who argue that the population must be stabilizedand ideally gradually reducedwithin a framework that ensures social integrity. The report published Tuesday in the journal BioScience also calls for the wholesale dumping of fossil fuels and the emergence of green energy. They call for a bold and drastic change in economic growth to slash greenhouse gas emissions which research shows contributes to climate change. Ocasio Cortez a Democrat from New York backed the report on Twitter telling her followers in a Nov. 5 tweet that tweaks and shortcuts wont be enough to save the planet. The U.S. must engage in massive systemic change is in alignment with scientific consensus she said. The New York lawmaker retweeted a tweet from The Huffington Post that discusses the reports details. RELATED Ocasio Cortezs Chief Of Staff Admits What The Green New Deal Is Really About And Its Not The Climate Markey made similar comments. 11258 scientists are sounding the alarm we are in a climate emergency. And not just climate scientists. Biologists ecologists more the Massachusetts Democrat said in a Nov. 6 tweet. The crisis touches every aspect of our lives. So must the solution. Thats why we need a to fundamentally transform our society Markey added. He included in his tweet a link to a Washington Post report highlighting the nuts and bolts of the report. Markey and Ocasio Cortez introduced the GND in February which calls for a 10 year national mobilizations toward a series of goals designed to tackled global warming. The GND calls for the country to become carbon neutral within 10 years and seeks to aggressively reduce emissions. Other Democrats are also supporting the general thrust of Tuesdays report. Billionaire Tom Steyer also expressed his support. The world must wake up. We cant sweep climate change under the rug any longer Steyer said in a Wednesday tweet that also linked to WaPos report. World data consistently show that climate change is the least of most peoples concerns. Citizens generally are more concerned about getting a good education obtaining better healthcare and achieving political freedoms than they are tackling climate change according to a 2015 survey from the United Nations. Neither Ocasio Cortez nor Markey or Steyer responded to the Daily Caller News Foundations request for comment. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	True	False	True	False
The Trump administration has repeatedly pointed to declines in U.S. carbon emissions to justify its fossil fuel focused energy dominance agenda. But a new analysis has delivered a blow to that defense concluding that the nations greenhouse gas emissions rose sharply in 2018. Emissions in the country jumped 3.4 percent last year the second largest annual increase in more than two decades according to a preliminary estimate by the economic research company Rhodium Group. The analysis comes on the heels of two gut wrenching climate reports one by the United Nations and another authored by scientists from more than a dozen federal agencies in the U.S. that warn the world is running out of time to stave off catastrophic and potentially irreversible climate change. The Trump administration continues to dismiss and downplay the crisis. I dont believe it President Donald Trump who has a long history of climate change denial said of his own administrations report. He added that were the cleanest weve ever been. Between 2005 and 2017 CO2 emissions in the U.S. fell by about 14 percent. Administration officials havetouted these declines to explain their push to boost fossil fuels as well as to defend the presidentsdecision last year to withdraw the U.S. from the historic Paris accord on combating climate change. We are moving forward but we are not moving forward in a detrimental impact to our economy as what the Paris climate accord would have called for Wheeler said. We are reducing our CO2 emissions faster than most other developed countries. We have our own plan. Were moving forward. Were addressing the issue. Former Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke who resigned Jan. 2 under a cloud of ethics scandals told the National Petroleum Council last month that the administrations regulatory philosophy is to partner with the fossil fuel sector which he said was at the leading edge of technology. The U.S. has lead the charge in cutting emissions of CO2 and methane a potent greenhouse gas he added. Everyone else is up he said referring to other countries overall emissions. Were going down while we have our record breaking oil and gas production. But as Rhodium Groups new analysis makes clear that was not the case in 2018. The emissions uptick the largest since the economic bounce back from the recession that ended in mid 2009 comes despite a record number of coal fired power plants going offline replaced largely by the use of natural gas. Along with an 1.9 percent spike in power sector emissions increases occurred in the transportation industry and buildings sectors according to Rhodium. Contributing to the overall increase were the growing U.S. economy a cold start to the year that required additional energy for heating and the limited progress made in developing decarbonization strategies the analysis found. With a new Congress in session we demand they heed these warnings about climate change and step up to act at the scale of the crisis she said in a statement. The administration has aggressively rolled back environmental and climate regulations including President Barack Obamas Clean Power Plan a policy limiting greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. At Interior Zinke overturned an Obama era moratorium on new coal leases on federal land scrapped a hydraulic fracturing rule meant to better protect public health and curtailed a rule limiting the amount of methane that can be released from oil and gas operations on federal and Native American lands. Even amid the current partial government shutdown the administration has prioritized fossil fuels. The Interior Departmentone of the main agencies affected by the shutdown. is still issuing permits for oil companies according to Bloomberg. And the agency is continuing its push to open Alaskas fragile Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling holding public meetings as part of its ongoing environmental review process Alaska Public Media reported.	True	False	False	False	True
After watching Schwarzeneggers video in fact it becomes immediately evident that the actor and former politician has never read the Paris climate accordand has no idea what it says. President Trump says hes pulling out of the Paris climate agreement. My message to you Mr. President is that as a public servant and especially as a president your first and most important responsibility is to protect the people Schwarzenegger begins. He then proceeds to chronicle the negative effects of pollution in the United States. Two hundred thousand people die every year in the U.S. from air pollution and half of our rivers and streams are too polluted for our health he says. We cant sit back and just do nothing while people are getting sick and dying especially when you know theres another way. Schwarzenegger goes on to suggest that without the Paris accord we will face a dirty energy future with asthma emphysema and cancer. The trouble is President Trump would heartily agree with Schwarzeneggers point while perhaps debating the exact statistics. According to President Trump clean air and water are exactly the issues that the EPA should be dealing with. But this has nothing to do with the Paris climate accord. Nowhere does the 25 page agreement deal with battling air pollution or cleaning up rivers and streams. It deals specifically with reducing greenhouse gas emissions particularly carbon dioxide CO2 with the stated objective of combatting global warming. Carbon dioxide is not a toxic gas. No one is dying from CO2 air pollution or from rivers and streams polluted with carbon dioxide. Some climate scientists in fact have argued that more carbon dioxide not less would be beneficial to the environment and to humanity. Growers regularly pump it into their greenhouses to achieve healthier heartier plants. Everything Schwarzenegger mentions in his short videofrom air pollution to clean water to asthma emphysema and canceris completely unrelated to the Presidents decision to withdraw from the Paris accord. So maybe the next time he decides to criticize the decision to get the U.S. out of the Paris accord he should read the document first. Meanwhile he should probably think about terminating that video.	True	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON Senator Bernie Sanders on Thursday release d a 16.3 trillion blueprint to fight climate change the latest and most expensive proposal from the field of Democratic presidential candidates aimed at reining in planet warming greenhouse gases. Mr. Sanders unveiled his proposal one day after Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington who made climate change the central focus of his campaign announced he was dropping out of the 2020 race. Mr. Inslees absence could create an opening for another presidential aspirant to seize the mantle of climate candidate. Mr. Sanders was an early supporter of the Green New Deal an ambitious but nonbinding congressional plan for tackling global warming and economic inequality. He is bestowing that same name upon his new plan which calls for the United States to eliminate fossil fuel use by 2050. It declares climate change a national emergency envisions building new solar wind and geothermal power sources across the country and commits 200 billion to help poor nations cope with climate change.	True	True	False	True	False
California legislators have voted to extend a centerpiece program to cut greenhouse gas emissions burnishing the states reputation as a bulwark against Donald Trumps demolition of climate change measures. In a rare show of bipartisan agreement on climate change eight Republicans joined with Democrats in Californias two legislative houses to extend the cap and trade emissions system a further 10 years until 2030. The emissions lowering scheme the second largest of its kind in the world aims to help the state reach its target of cutting planet warming gases 40 by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. Tonight California stood tall and once again boldly confronted the existential threat of our time said Jerry Brown Californias governor. Republicans and Democrats set aside their differences came together and took courageous action. Thats what good government looks like. The cap and trade program established in 2006 under then governor Arnold Schwarzenegger sets a limit on emissions and requires polluters to either reduce their output or purchase permits from those who have. As the limit steadily becomes stricter it nudges businesses to take the more financially attractive option of cutting their pollution. California the sixth largest economy in the world is in stark opposition to Trumps administration. The president has said he will withdraw the US from the Paris climate agreement and has set about dismantling federal policies that lower emissions. Brown has positioned himself as a countervailing force to Trump visiting China to talk to its leaders about climate change and promising to build and launch weather monitoring satellites should federal budget cuts endanger programs handled by Nasa and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOOA. A lot of you people are going to be alive and youre going to be alive in a horrible situation Brown told Californian lawmakers at a committee hearing shortly before the vote. This isnt for me Im going to be dead. This is for you and its real. Many Californian Republicans remain opposed to the cap and trade system warning it will pose a crushing blow to small businesses. But the bill ended up gaining an unusual level of Republican support with the extension also supported by key conservative constituencies including the California Chamber of Commerce and associations representing manufacturers and agriculture interests. Concessions to get some Republican support such as the limiting of separate regulations on refineries risked alienating more liberal Democrats. Some environmental groups including the Sierra Club attacked the bill for allowing polluters to continue emitting greenhouse gases if they offset them with green projects including those outside California. But other climate activists declared themselves pleased with the outcome pointing out that it showed that action to reduce emissions is bipartisan and popular. California is once again showing Washington DC and the rest of the world that fighting climate and air pollution is the right thing for our health economy and future said Fred Krupp president of the Environmental Defense Fund. Californias pioneering attitude to climate change action was underlined by separate court action launched on Monday aimed at holding fossil fuel companies accountable for global warming. Marin and San Mateo counties along with the City of Imperial Beach filed a lawsuit in the California superior court to complain that 37 oil gas and coal companies knew burning their products would increase carbon pollution and cause sea levels rise. Defendants have known for nearly 50 years that greenhouse gas pollution from their fossil fuel products has a significant impact on the Earths climate and sea levels the complaint states. The municipalities are claiming damages from the fossil fuel firms echoing a strategy used against the tobacco industry in the 1990s that resulted in multibillion dollar payouts. The companies targeted in the lawsuit include Shell Exxon Mobile Chevron and BP. According to the municipalities these businesses have caused around 20 of all industrial carbon dioxide and methane pollution since the 1960s.	True	False	False	False	True
California Gov. Jerry Brown ramped up his criticism of President Trump in an interview that aired Monday calling the president a saboteur in the fight to combat climate change and saying that somethings got to happen to this guy. Speaking to MSNBCs Andrea Mitchell at an environmentalsummitin San Francisco last week Brown tore into Trump for the presidents controversial tweets about the death toll in Puerto Rico from last years Hurricane Maria and urged voters to vote for Democrats in Novembers midterm elections in an effort to thwart Trumps agenda. We never had a president who was engaged in this kind of behavior Brown said. I mean hes not telling the truth he keeps changing his mind hes sabotaging the world order in many respects. Brown added Its unprecedented its dangerous and hopefully this election is going to send a strong message to the country the Democrats will winsomethings got to happen to this guy because if we dont get rid of him hes going to undermine America and even the world. Under Brown California has become one of the main opponents to the Trump administrations policies on everything from land use to immigration. But there is perhaps no area where California has been more combative against the White House agenda than the environment. California has positioned itself as the center of the Trump resistance Jessica Levinson a clinical law professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles told Fox News. Its bloody combat. Earlier this month Brown signed two pieces of legislation effectively banning the construction of any new offshore oil and gas pipelines in the states waters. The new laws are meant to thwart a Trump plan to open nearly 1.7 billion acres of coastal waters to drilling. Shortly before the climate conference began last week the governor also put his signature on legislation phasing out electricity in the state produced by fossil fuels by 2045. Its really extraordinary that the president can deny science like that Brown told MSNBC of Trumps questioning the veracity of climate change. Its bad and how we counteract it is with a climate summit with normal people respecting the truth and communicating that with other normal people and combating the President of the United States in what are lies distortions and quite frankly bizarre behavior. Browns criticism of Trump appears to have fallen on deaf ears at the White House as the administration announced on Tuesday that it was rolling back an Obama era rule meant to curb climate changing pollution and easing restrictions on energy companies that allow huge volumes of natural gas to escape after drilling it from U.S. lands. The move rescinds much of a 2016 rule adopted under President Barack Obama that forced energy companies to capture methane a key contributor to climate change. The replacement rule from the Interior Department does not have the same mandates for companies to reduce gas pollution. It comes a week after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency proposed weakening a similar rule for emissions from public and private lands. We're for clean air and water but at the same time we're for reasonable regulations Deputy Interior Secretary David Bernhardt told reporters. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	True	True	False	True	False
The Brando is one of the most luxurious eco resorts on the planet nestling on an atoll in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. It's the last place you might think to find pioneering technology. But you'd be surprised. The Brando resort on Tetiaroa a stunning atoll north of Tahiti is the epitome of luxurious exclusivity. Two room bungalows start from 3700 3200 a night. Formerly owned by Hollywood legend Marlon Brando who was keen that it should become an ecological haven it has now developed in to a hideaway for the rich and famous seeking conscience soothing holidays that do less harm to the planet. While some have dismissed the resort as an island for liberal elites Beyonc and Barack Obama were recent guests current owner Richard Bailey claims it is close to becoming carbon neutral and self sustainable. Electricity at the complex for example is generated from solar panels and coconut oil biofuel while waste water is used for sustainable irrigation. And the resort's cooling system uses a closed loop heat exchanger that takes very cold sea water from 900m 2950ft below the surface of the Pacific Ocean to cool the fresh water and air circulating round the complex. As the cooling system is powered largely by water pressure it uses very little energy. It is often felt that sustainability is not compatible with the luxury end of the hospitality market but The Brando proves it is possible says Prof Graham Miller who holds a chair in sustainability in business at the University of Surrey. But of course visitors to The Brando have to fly to Tahiti first then take another 20 minute flight to paradise so their carbon footprint is still significant. The well heeled guests are unlikely to be bitten by mosquitoes either due to a sterilisation programme that has slashed Tetiaroa's mosquito population by at least 95. Led by Dr Herv Bossin of the Institut Louis Malard the programme breeds and releases non biting male mosquitoes infected with a Wolbachia virus that makes wild females who do bite sterile. Similar initiatives aimed at stamping out diseases such as Dengue and Zika are underway in countries such as Australia Colombia and China. But few countries have enjoyed the same level of success as Tetiaroa where mosquito levels are now so low the team is simply not catching any wild females anymore according to Frank Murphy executive director of the Tetiaroa Society the non governmental organisation NGO overseeing the sterilisation programme. The success of the project recently convinced the local government to fund a much larger breeding facility that could see the programme expand to other Pacific islands he says. Mosquitoes are not the only pests the Tetiaroa Society is working to eradicate. Rats are a big problem for the ecosystem of the atoll. Rats eat everything from baby turtles to sea birds and that is bad news for the coral reef too Mr Murphy says. Technology could help here too. The team wants to use 2.2m diameter drones to drop poisonous bait designed to attract rats but not other species. The operation only the second ever will be led by Island Conservation a US NGO that protects endangered species by removing invasive ones. Rats can cause the collapse of the entire terrestrial ecosystem says Island Conservation's Sally Esposito. In the past we have used helicopters to spread bait but we recently used drones for the first time on Seymour Norte in the Galapagos Islands. Tetiaroa is a more difficult environment so it's a great opportunity to test the drones further and should help us to create a haven for endangered native species such as the Polynesian Ground dove and the Tuamotu Sandpiper. Perhaps the most futuristic project on Tetiaroa is the Island Digital Ecosystem Avatar which uses light detection and ranging Lidar surveys to create a 3D model. Other data about animals plants topography and so on will be incorporated to create a model that could be used to predict how the island might react in different scenarios from flooding to the introduction of new species. The Lidar surveys give us a 3D representation of the physical contours of the island including the soils says Tetiaroa Society scientific director Neil Davies a senior fellow at the Berkeley Institute for Data Science. It's a bit like putting the island through a scanner. The team's eventual aim is to capture the atoll's whole ecosystem from molecule upwards so it can help local governments and communities evaluate future risks and make better decisions. Eco tourism is a growing trend that resorts are seeking to exploit around the world as people seek to make more responsible choices in the face of climate change. For example the Parkside Hotel Spa in Canada along with The Brando is one of just a handful of resorts to attain the US Green Building Council's Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design platinum certification. It has a 290 sq m 3000 sq ft vegetated roof and uses ponds and storm water storage tanks as a heat sink for its air conditioning system. And actor Leonardo DiCaprio a high profile environmental campaigner and The Brando regular is set to open his Blackadore Caye eco island resort off Belize in 2020. But with tourism contributing around 8 to global greenhouse gas emissions according to one recent paper published in the scientific journal Nature Climate Change all resorts will need to become carbon neutral not just those targeting the world's rich.	True	False	False	False	False
President Donald Trump set in motion a vast rollback of energy climate and environmental regulations during his first two years in office. Over the next two years those actions will face intense scrutiny on Capitol Hill. On Thursday Democrats will take control of the House of Representatives and the committees that conduct government oversight. Within the first few months of the year incoming committee chairs intend to hold a series of hearings to pick apart Trump's energy and environmental policies and what role industry insiders played in crafting them. The Trump administration has targeted dozens of rules. Some of the biggest items on its agenda include withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate agreement expanding drilling on federal lands and watering down rules ranging from limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants to fuel efficiency in cars and trucks. Rep. Raul Grijalva the Arizona Democrat tipped to chair the House Natural Resources Committee says Americans can expect the committee to probe the financial costs and public health risks associated with Interior Department policies under Trump. Those include rolling back methane emissions rules from oil and gas operations and making virtually all federally administered offshore waters available to drillers. The Trump administration has spent two years giving away the store to fossil fuel companies and Republicans in Congress cheered every step of the way says Grijalva. We need to know what kind of impact this corporate favoritism is having on average Americans' health and quality of life.	True	True	False	True	True
That was the sober but urgent warning from congressional Democrats who on Tuesday penned a letter to EPA head Scott Pruitt urging him to preserve the Great Lakes area office amid rumors it could be shuttered as part of the Trump administrations efforts to slash the EPAs budget. EPA Region 5 is critical to protecting the air drinking water and health of residents in the six Great Lakes states the region serves and closing its headquarters in Chicago would make EPA less efficient and effective in its efforts to protect human health and the environment read the letter. And in a visit last week to East Chicago Indianawhich is grappling with a lead contamination crisis affecting both the water and soil Pruitt reportedly denied to a resident of the town that Region 5 was on the chopping block. About a month ago the union got three press calls in the same day asking if it had heard there was announcement Region 5 might be closed. The Office of Management and Budget also issued a memo in March asking the EPA to propose two regions for elimination. Then two weekends ago Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel issued a statement in support of keeping Region 5 open following reports in the Chicago Sun Timesand Politico that it was on the chopping block. There are about 1000 people in Region 5 and it has the most industrial regions of all of the EPA the employee who asked not to be named for fear of reprisal told HuffPost. My question is Why us? Were a big region in terms of geography. It takes four hours flying to get to the edge of the whole region. There are a lot of folks who simply wont do the move. And to be honest thats why its being suggested the employee said. The Trump administration suggested getting rid of 31 percent of the budget about 3000 employees which is about 20 percent of the EPA workforce. How are they going to get there? Its a lot easier to combine regions knowing that many of the staff in Region 5 would not want to move to Kansas City. Members of Congress who signed Tuesdays letter underscored the important role the region plays in ensuring a quick response to spills and contamination in the six states which are criss crossed with oil and gas pipelines spills often near the bulk of the nations freshwater supply and the Mississippi River waterways. Mikulka the EPA employees union president said shuttering Region 5 would be an effective way to hobble an agency whose mission is largely at odds with the Trump administrations deregulation orientedanti climate protection stance. If we have the most industry and we do the most enforcement and get the greatest results what better way to disembowel the EPA than going after Region 5?	True	True	False	True	False
With the Democrats ascension to power in the Commonwealth of Virginia following the November 2019 elections the state can expect the new legislature to try and push an aggressively progressive agenda. But you may be surprised just how progressive it is. The Democrats flipped control of the state senate from a 20 19 Republican majority to a 21 19 Democratic majority. They also regained control of the state House of Delegates turning a 51 49 Republican majority into a 55 45 Democratic majority. According to the Washington Post this is the first time in 25 years that Democrats have controlled every lever of state power. Lets take a look at how they intend to use it. Here are some of the most radical bills Democrats have introduced in the statehouse. RELATED Democrats Take Control Of Virginia State Legislature For The First Time In Decades HB 77 unanimously endorsed by the Democratic party in Virginia as part of their pre election platform calls for radical action from the Virginian government in order to address climate change. This bill introduced by Delegate Sam Rasoul states that by 2036 essentially all energy sold must come from clean energy sources. The bill reads in calendar year 2036 and every calendar year thereafter 100 percent of the electricity sold by a retail electric supplier is required to be generated from clean energy resources. The clean energy mandates apply to a public utility or other person that sells not less than 1000 megawatt hours of electric energy to retail customers or generates not less than 1000 megawatt hours of electric energy for use by the person. HB 77 also calls for job training for those workers displaced by the transition to renewable energy sources. Additionally the Democratic majority will allow Northam to join the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative RGGI. The RGGI is described as the first mandatory market based program in the United States to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Nine states are currently members. Permitting 16 year old children to obtain abortions without parental consent is also on the docket for Virginian Democrats. Senate Bill No. 21 states that A minor shall be deemed an adult for the purpose of consenting to Medical or health services related to abortion birth control pregnancy or family planning except for the purposes of sexual sterilization. Prior to this bill Virginia Code 16.1 241 required minors to have the permission of a guardian before having an abortion. If the minor wasnt able to obtain permission then they had to seek judicial authorization during which a judge would determine if the abortion was in the minors best interests and that they were mature enough to make that decision. Tanning is now apparently too dangerous to be done by anyone under the age of 18. This bill bans the use of tanning facility by any person under the age of 18 among other restrictions and does not carve out a parental consent exception. Section G of House Bill No. 38 says No individual under the age of 18 shall be allowed to use any tanning device at a tanning facility. The owner shall be responsible for ensuring that each customer using the tanning facility is of legal age to do so. HB 145 mandates that the Virginia Department of Education come up with school board model policies concerning the treatment of transgender students in public elementary and secondary schools that address common issues regarding transgender students in accordance with evidence based best practices. The bill goes on to describe several areas for this guidance. Some of the proposed specifics are harmless such as section 3 which says that the developed policies should prevent and respond to bullying and harassment. However section 8 calls for standards in accordance with evidence based best practices regarding Student participation in sex specific school activities events and athletics and use of school facilities which can be read as including male female transgender students being included in female specific restrooms facilities and sports. It also calls for guidance regarding the identification of students and compliance with applicable nondiscrimination laws which would include the Equality Act if passed by Congress a big legislative priority of congressionalDdemocrats. If HB 41 passes then board licensed primary care physicians will be required to discuss the potential negative effects of adverse childhood experiences on both mental and physical health during a patients first visit. Doctors will also have to screen patients for adverse childhood experiences that may impact a patients physical or mental health or the provision of health care services to the patient. Gun control is perhaps the most widely known and publicized issue of the 2019 election. Following a shooting in Virginia Beach in June Northam called a special session of the legislature in order to address gun violence. Republicans adjourned the session after 90 minutes. The governor has announced that gun control measures will be reintroduced in January. SB 16 states that it is unlawful for anyone to manufacture purchase possess or transport an assault firearm. A violation of this section is punishable as a Class 6 felony. An assault weapon is defined as The bill furthers prohibits handguns with a fixed magazine capacity in excess of 10 rounds and semi automatic shotguns that has a a fixed magazine capacity in excess of seven rounds among other commonly found features. If the bill passes as it currently stands even current owners of these firearms would face criminalization for what were previously legally owned firearms. RELATED Ocasio Cortezs Chief Of Staff Admits What The Green New Deal Is Really About And Its Not The Climate Virginians can expect a wave of progressive legislation to hit their state over the next several years as the Democrats enjoy having control of the state government. However some push back from state residents might be stronger than expected as the anticipated assault weapons ban has caused 94 counties to declare themselves second amendment sanctuaries. It remains to be seen if any other of the other proposed bills will spark as intense a reaction.	False	True	False	True	False
The 2015 Paris agreement's ambitious goal of limiting global warming to 1.5C remains within reach a study suggests. The study is one of several to address the carbon budget which among other things determines how much CO2 the planet can emit and still reach a given limit for global warming. It indicates the 2015 target perceived by some as tough could be met with very stringent emissions cuts. It used computer models that project climate behaviour into the future. The aim of the Paris deal was holding the increase in global average temperature to well below 2C above pre industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit temperature increase to 1.5C. But scientists admit they were taken by surprise by the ambition of the 1.5C figure. The results of the work with computer models have been published in Nature Geoscience. This type of work necessarily contains uncertainties regarding the way the Earth's climate will respond in future and how quickly societies can move away from fossil fuel use. But the study authors say Pursuing 'efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C' is not chasing a geophysical impossibility. Co author Michael Grubb from University College London said This paper shows that the Paris goals are within reach but clarifies what the commitment to 'pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C' really implies. Those commitments would require strengthening the nationally determined contributions NDCs the pledges to cut emissions contained in the Paris agreement. Previous estimates of the remaining 1.5C carbon budget based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's IPCC Fifth Assessment of the climate were around four times lower. But unlike those figures which relied on one line of evidence the new study uses multiple approaches to examine the question and comes up with a rather different result. Co author Prof Pierre Friedlingstein from the University of Exeter said This is very good news for the achievability of the Paris targets. Prof Myles Allen another author from the University of Oxford told BBC News In the main body of the IPCC assessment what it would take to meet a 1.5C goal wasn't assessed in any detail. To be honest it wasn't thought to be the policy priority at the time. Perhaps it should have been but that was the view of the academic community then. But the ambition of Paris caught a lot of people by surprise. The climate models are exaggerating. The predictions are too alarmist. The Tuvaluans and other islanders are safer than we thought. These are among the conclusions that some might reach from this latest work. In reality nothing is quite that straightforward. The models are simulated approximations of possible futures. Inevitably they are going to be at least slightly adrift of reality either in the amount of warming or its timing. They come with caveats and margins of error. In many ways it's remarkable that these computer constructs are even roughly on track. And models designed to come up with very broad potential outcomes for the end of the century may not be fine tuned enough to give more detailed forecasts year by year. The authors themselves are anxious that their research is not misunderstood. The need for urgent action to reduce emissions is unchanged they say. It's just that the most ambitious of the Paris Agreement targets is not as unachievable as many once thought that there is time to act though the task remains a monumental one. Myles Allen added For a two in three chance of keeping temperatures within 1.5C we'd have to reduce emissions in a straight line to zero from where we are now over the next 40 years. It's possible but extremely challenging. So if people are saying can we now relax? That's not the right message to take at all. Scientists agree urgent action will be needed to tackle the effects of rapid temperature increase over the next century. But a study earlier this year suggested the allowable carbon budget had probably been overestimated. It said the pre industrial baseline used to benchmark present day warming was probably older than the IPCC had assumed. Therefore the degree of warming since that baseline was probably greater than had been believed. On Twitter one of the authors of that report Prof Michael Mann said the latest research in Nature Geoscience doesn't account for the pre industrial baseline issue we examined. He added There is some debate about the precise amount of committed warming if we cease emitting carbon immediately. We're probably very close to 1.5C. Meanwhile another study in Nature Geoscience by Gunnar Myhre from the Center for International Climate and Environmental Research in Oslo and colleagues suggests the greenhouse effect caused by human induced CO2 emissions is now half way to doubling compared with pre industrial conditions. Although the concentrations themselves have not yet reached the halfway mark this is being described as an iconic watermark.	False	True	False	True	True
If we dont address the issues of climate change and inequality Ms. Lagarde said Tuesday before a major economic conference in Riyadh we will be moving to a dark future. Speaking directly to the question of global warming Lagarde said that we will be toasted roasted and grilled if humanity fails to make critical decisions regarding carbon emissions. If the human race wants a future that looks like utopia and not dystopia it needs to address such concerns Lagarde said predicting that in 50 years time oil will be a secondary commodity since green energy will have moved into prominence. Speaking before a major petroleum producing nation Lagarde hastened to add that these necessary measures are well understood in Saudi Arabia. Ms. Lagarde is no stranger to exaggerated predictions having proposed in 2016 that a Brexit victory would lead to 500000 job losses while suggesting that Brexit voters are narrow minded and calling for a united Europe. Ms. Lagarde said she had always admired Britains openness to other nationalities and cultures and added it was hard to believe attitudes had changed in such a short space of time. In June President Donald Trump announced the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accord arguing that it was a deeply flawed document that put American workers at an economic disadvantage. This announcement drew fierce criticism from world leaders and activists with former UN secretary general Ban Ki moon accusing Trump of standing on the wrong side of history. Recent reports however suggest that Trumps move has drawn numerous countries in his wake with a number of other nations quietly withdrawing from the Paris energy goals. According to Lawrence Solomon of Energy Probe a Toronto based environmental organization Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is one of the only signers of the Paris agreement who is actually abiding by the exacting demands of the accord. Most signatories Solomon notes in an essay in last Fridays Financial Post are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios. Moreover a devastating new study from the prestigious UK based Lancet journal has revealed that pollution related diseasesrather than climate changewere responsible for an estimated 9 million premature deaths in 2015 or some 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence combined. Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today the study found but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwide three times more deaths than from AIDS tuberculosis and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence. So while there has not yet been a single documented case of a person being killed by carbon dioxide related global warming real pollution of air water and land is killing an average of 25000 people every day across the globe. As environmental activists jet around the world complaining of carbon footprints and preaching renewable energy they have been remarkably silent regarding the real and present menace that is wiping out millions of human beings around the world. Whereas the Paris Climate Accord prates about greenhouse gas emissions it never once mentions the word pollution in the entire 27 pagedocument. Yet not only is pollution control not getting better in many parts of the world pollution is getting worse the Lancet study found.	True	True	False	True	False
WASHINGTON The Trump administration is moving forward with a significant rollback of an Obama era cleanwater regulation that has become a rallying cry for farmers and property rights activists opposed to federal overreach. The new proposal unveiled Tuesday morning by actingEPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler and other administration officials wouldease Washington's oversight of small bodies of water undoing a regulationPresident Donald Trump has called a massive power grab. The new rule wouldreplace an Obama administration regulation known as the Waters of the United States rulethat expandedfederal protections to smaller rivers and streams. Environmental advocates warn the proposed rule could remove pollution and development protections from mostU.S. waterways and pose far reaching effects on the safety of the nation's tap water for more than 100 million Americans. Even a child understands that small streams flow into large streams and lakes which provide drinking water for so many Americans said Craig Cox senior vice president for agriculture and natural resources for the EnvironmentalWorking Group. By removing safeguards and allowing industry to dump pollutants into these water sources Trumps EPA is ensuring more contamination challenges for utilities and dirtier water for their customers. But opponents of the Obama era WOTUS rule say it unduly prevents property owners from being able to fully use their land because the rule's overly broad definition regulates ditches that temporarily flood as federally protected waterways. The old rule put Washington in control of ponds puddles and prairie potholes saidWyoming GOP Sen.Tom Barrasso who chairs the Environment and Public Works Committee. The regulation was so confusing that property owners and businesses could not determine when permits were needed. The crux of the rollback is a change in how navigable waterways are defined under the Clean Water Act. The 2015 definition crafted under President Barack Obama would narrow considerably under Trump a move that Wheeler told reporters wouldmake it clearer and easier to understand ... that will result in significant cost savings protect the nation's navigable waterways and reduce barriers to important economic and environmental projects. Wheeler cited the Missouri Farm Bureauwhich launched a Ditch the Rule campaign opposing the 2015 proposal because it was concerned theObama era definition was so broad it could apply to almost every acre in the state. The Obama administration claimed it was in the interest of water quality but it was really about power power in the hands of the federal government over landowners Wheeler said. It's also confusing because the rule is enforced in only 22 statesthe District of Columbia and the U.S. territories. Under Trump's proposedrule federal protections would remain for major waterways riverstributaries wetlands adjacent to federally protected waterways certain lakes and ponds reservoirs and ditches used for navigation or affected by the tide. States would overseemost ditches terrain that fills with water during or in response to rainfall certain wetlands that have been used to grow crops stormwater control ponds and water and wastewater treatment systems. Additionally groundwater would not be federally protected an exclusion Wheeler said that was never supposed to be included. Wheeler disputed claims by environmental groups that the rule would remove federal oversightfrom at least 60 percent of the nation's waterways. But EPA officials also could not say what percentage would lose those protections. Delaware Sen. Tom Carper the top Democrat on the Environment and PublicWorks Committee said the rollback would send the country back to a time when environmental protections were few and far between. Back then the Cuyahoga River in Cleveland Ohio was so polluted that it actually caught on fire. Polluters were allowed to dump toxic waste into our waterways without consequence. Garbage littered our shores Carper said. It isnt just a coincidence that this is no longer the reality in our country. In one of his first acts as presidentTrump signed an executive order in February 2017 to undo the clean water rule and instructed the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to come up with a new approach. In a Roosevelt Room ceremony with farmers and lawmakers at the time Trump called the rule one of the worst examples of federal regulation. The debate over the water rule was part of a larger political flashpoint over environmental issues during the 2016 presidential campaign as Trump tried to appeal to rural Americans exasperated by federal regulations and the loss of property rights. While the broader debate centered on climate change and clean air rules the waters rule was nearly as polarizing because its broad application could affect farming construction and other activities near federally regulated waters. The issue has often come down to the definition of navigable waters under the Clean Water Act. The Clean Water Act of 1972 makes it illegal to pollute navigable waters. Over the decades disputes arose over the government's changing definition of navigable with opponents complainingthe definition was too broad. Two Supreme Court decisions in 2001 and 2006 came down on the side of landowners ruling that ponds at the bottom of a gravel pit and a marsh miles from any lake or river were not navigable and thus not subject to the act. Wheeler said he wants the rule to reflect the court rulings. More President Trump on dire economic forecast of climate change report 'I don't believe it' More Once Democrats take charge of the House addressing climate change will become top priority again	False	True	False	True	False
As thousands of activists and scientists around the world gather to March for Science Bill Nye has a U.S. Constitution lesson for Donald Trump that proves he must advance scientific causes. In an interview on MSNBCs AM Joy Nye said that it explicitly states in the Constitution that the U.S. government must promote the progress of science and useful arts something the Trump administration isnt even close to upholding. Nye had a reminder for the Trump administration I just want to remind the administration that science is political. It is inherently political like everything else Its in the U.S. Constitution Article 1 Section 8 to promote the progress of science and useful arts. And my interpretationof the expression useful arts is engineering. In those days it would be architecture city planning designing of the drainage systems sewage systems and communications systems. This is all in the U.S. Constitution Thats what enables innovation and if our country stops innovating it will not be able to compete worldwide. Nye said that solutions to battling climate change are realistic and doable if the United States simply puts resources toward the effort and decides to act. We could get to 80 percent renewables in the next 15 years we could 100 percent renewable in the next 30 years and we wouldnt have to have a military on the other side of the world protecting oil fields so that we could get our fossil fuels here in North America he said. Once again the biggest hurdle in battling climate change isnt the existence of feasible solutions those already exist. The problem at least in the United States is Republicans in Congress and now the White House especially Trump who believes climates change is a hoax who continue to deny that the climate crisis is happening in the first place despite the overwhelming evidence. Donald Trump isnt just shirking his constitutional responsibility to advance scientific innovation but hesputting at risk the only planet we have.	True	True	False	True	False
More and more Americans are coming to the conclusion that climate change is no myth at a time when the Trump administration is intent on ignoring reality and appeasing corporate interests. Some environmental leaders are responding by formulating a lowest common denominator strategy on climate like revenue neutral approaches hoping to magically create a middle ground by bowing to the altar of limited government. Fortunately an inclusive inter sectional and organic resistance is rising. This spring throughout a week of powerful demonstrations from Earth Day to May Day this resistance will blossom. OneAmerica is a multi issue immigrant rights organization that calls Washington state aka the Center of the Resistance home. Our communities are as harmed in the short term by ICE raids and unconstitutional travel bans as they are in the long term by gutted environmental regulations. To fight these destructive and unpopular attacks we need everyone but more importantly we need to follow the leadership of those most impacted by these regulatory rollbacks and programmatic cuts. People across the country overwhelmingly support action on climate and investment in renewable energy sources and believe immigrants make the United States a better place to live. In partnership with our allies among labor environmental faith and progressive business groups OneAmerica has worked with other organizations led by people of color to build a statewide movement for action on climate change that puts our communities and other front line communities first. Our communities to quote environmental justice advocate Majora Carter are the canaries in the coal mine We have already begun to experience climate disruption by virtue of where we live and work and we have always been on the front lines of pollution. Farm worker communities in Eastern Washington have worked through several severely hot summers under threat of wildfires and job loss due to drought. In the Puget Sound region some of the zip codes with the lowest life expectancy and highest pollution burdens are home to large and growing Latino and Asian Pacific American communities. Our movement has come together around the conviction that a well crafted climate policy must actively seek to close that climate gap the disproportionate and unequal impact of the climate crisis has on people of color and poor people. We demand climate action that addresses historic injustices by pricing pollution and investing in solutions that improve economic and environmental conditions in front line communities. Our policy developed in partnership with mainstream environmental groups labor unions public health organizations and other stakeholders represents some of the best of what a unified national resistance could create Comprehensive equitable action against the biggest existential threat of our generation climate change. Thats why on Saturday April 22nd we will support an inclusive March for Science that embraces research based policies to address climate change. We will push our allies in the movement to use racial equity in their analyses by identifying disparate impacts of pollution and climate disruption and designing remedies that improve conditions for the most overburdened first. The Peoples Climate Movement takes to the streets on Saturday April 29th shedding light on the intertwined destinies of clean energy and employment in the United States and around the world. Finally on May Day OneAmerica will join partner organizations in championing immigrant and workers rights in Seattle and Yakima in solidarity with mobilizations across the country. We will march to demand inter sectional immigrant rights The right to freedom from hate crimes and harassment the right to living wages and safe working conditions the right to love whomever we choose the right to keep families together and the right to a clean and healthy environment. These are the inextricable demands of a resistance as powerful as it is diverse and as strong as it is resilient. Our hope rests not in convincing the willfully ignorant to change their ways but in the coming together of broad based peoples movements prepared to act to take back the initiative moving from resistance to power.	False	True	True	True	False
The following post written by The Rev. Robert A. Franek is a part of Politicus Policy Discussion in which writers draw connections between real lives and public policy. Amid the billowing smoke of the Trump Russia scandal both Donald Trump and the Republicans in Congress have found time to further their agenda of stripping the civil rights away from LGBT people taking healthcare away from women and assuring that scientific data be kept away from the Environmental Protection Agency. Each of these is an outrageous moral failure. Each is a step backward in our nations progress towards greater equality for all. And each is a threat to the life liberty and pursuit of happiness guaranteed to every person. While the present civil rights challenge for LGBT people persists and the funding for Planned Parenthood hangs in the balance the damage being done to our environment through toxic pollution of water systems and neglecting climate change realities even to the omission of scientific data will be much harder to restore with a new administration and Congressional priorities. The Trump Russia scandal smoke will eventually clear but the carbon dioxide billowing into the atmosphere is doing permanent damage. More the Keystone and Dakota Access Pipelines present real threats to land and waterways for millions of people. Rolling back environmental protection regulations and willful denying of scientific data to forestall efforts to fight climate change is a direct threat to each persons right to life liberty and pursuit of happiness. When the air we breathe and the water we drink are imminently threatened so that corporations can make more money life liberty and the pursuit of happiness are on the line. It would seem that these fundamental freedoms would be something especially Republicans would want to defend in the cause of patriotic duty. However as the Trump Russia scandal has proven time and again there is no limit as to the Republicans will to put party over the good of the country. The threats to life because of environmental deregulation and not addressing climate change are more than theoretical. All kinds of illnesses are on the rise and can be traced to chemicals in air and water. Storms are becoming more and more severe causing greater damage homes businesses and entire communities. And still repugnant Republicans put profits over people and stupid over scientific data. Without a habitable environment that is safe from toxic waste harmful chemicals and dangerous carbon dioxide emissions leading to an ever warming planet how can anyone be assured of life liberty and the pursuit of happiness? When the environment poses an unnecessary threat to ones health life is denied. One might expect the so called party of life to be concerned about this. But one would be grossly mistaken. If there was any care for life beyond birth they would not be stripping rights away from LGBT people or denying women access to healthcare much less actively working to endanger and destroy the necessities for life air and water. Amid the Trump Russia scandal and the smoke that continues to billow around the White House and Congressional Republicans we must not lose sight of the actual smoke and pollution destroying our planetary ecosystems that sustain life for us and all creation. Securing the long term future of civil rights for LGBT people womens access to heath care and the flourishing of our environment that we may all enjoy life liberty and the pursuit of happiness rests not only on getting to the bottom of the Trump Russia scandal and draining the swamp in his administration along with the scandal covering right denying profit seeking in Congress but also on preventing the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. Assuring that all have life liberty and the pursuit of happiness is a fundamental moral commitment that we share as citizens working together for the common good of all people and the whole creation.	True	False	False	True	False
First it was global warming andor global cooling. Then when they figured out that they couldnt accurately predict which way it was going to go they settled on climate change. Apparently that phrase just doesnt have the oomph it once did and the church of climate change wants to rebrand their apocalypse to make people far more scared and subsequently obedient. An article by Aaron Hall in AdAge asked the question of whether or not people will be more apt to fall in line with the climate alarmists if they take out the neutral sounding climate change and replace it with something you might hear Chicken Little screaming Scientific terms often fail to resonate in meaningful ways. In the early 1900s for example no one had heard of the hypothesis of the primeval atom. That changed in the 1940s when the term Big Bang was coined which was a simpler more relatable concept for the masses. This complex scientific concept is extremely well known today because a better more tangible term was applied to it. Can we use lessons from the naming of the Big Bang to rebrand climate change? Interestingly Hall notes that politicians liked global warming because it sounded dynamic and scary but since it was too easy to poke holes in they decided to move on to climate change. People began joking about wanting global warming whenever it got too cold outside and the politicians much like the devil himself cant stand it when people laugh at them. Hall being a professional namer wondered allowed about whether or not people would take the church of climate change more seriously if he renamed it to sound scarier. He said that the new name needs to appeal to people who are unscientific to help them understand the severity of the problem and inspire them to make more eco friendly life choices and pro climate choices at the ballot box. In other words it needs to scare people into voting Democrat. What did his team of global namers come up with? A bunch of names that sound like bad B Movie titles. These options are subtle brand shifts from global warming yet they deliver a more negative image. The names signal that ice caps are melting but also create a more visceral image in the mind that real feeling of melting when its too hot outside. A meltdown is a disastrous event that draws from the ultimate terror of a nuclear meltdown an apt metaphor for global destruction. In naming we call metaphorical names suggestive names and they are one of the most popular types of names. Good brand names instill a clear message or even a direct call to action. Perhaps thats why climate change isnt powerful enough Change sounds so neutral. However theres nothing neutral about collapse or chaos. Both are states of events that you absolutely want to avoid. They ask each of us to do what it takes to avoid collapsing or descending into chaos. They both also use alliteration using the same letter or sound at the beginning of connected words a naming trick proven to enhance memorability. Arresting brand names often capitalize on vivid visual associations. They refer to a tipping point that were catapulting toward and must find a way to avert. Because a boiling point is the point at which liquid vaporizes it brings forth imagery of rivers lakes and oceans boiling and disappearing. Melting Point paints a clear picture of solid matter melting. As glaciers melt and disappear so does our way of life. Its time to take the gloves off and stop pretending. Sometimes a brand name needs to be hyperbolic to truly capture hearts and minds. If we dont take massive action now Earth will be uninhabitable an irreversible barren wasteland. Plants and animals will die. Humans wont be able to survive extreme weather like floods droughts and fires. If we dont change we wont even be able to spend time outside. Scorched Earth paints the direst picture of whats to come and what we must avoid and is likely the edgiest brand name from our exploration. Those were just the winners. Hall gives an honorable mention to these as well Emission Critical Focuses on the action we need to take reducing emissions. Pre Extinction Powerful and suggests another mass extinction is imminent if we do not change our ways today. The Great Collapse The collapse of ecosystems economies and our way of life. Earthshattering Creatively arresting the complete destruction of the Earth as we know it. Whats the takeaway from all this? Not that climate change is going to end the world. Its not. No real scientific data points to that fact. The takeaway here is that there are actually people out there trying to worry you into obedience and support for a leftist agenda and in order to do that theyre willing to play with your brain by changing up the words they use. As you see above Hall even admits that theyre willing to get hyperbolic in order to make you scared.	False	False	False	True	True
A tiny endangered butterfly could stop President Donald Trump from building his beloved border wall. A lawsuit has been filed by the Center for Biological Diversityenvironmental groups and the State of California against theU.S. Department of Homeland Security. It outlines that the Quino checkerspot butterfly Riverside fairy shrimp and the Pacific pocket mouse will be threatened if the border wall is built. The butterfly which is native to southern California and Northern Mexico is already on the endangered species list. The lawsuit contends that the Department of Homeland Security does not have the ability to waive environmental laws requiring review before building the wall. The suit seeks a ruling that a border wall with Mexico must go through normal environmental reviews which could block construction or at least cause major delays. The challengers contend that authority to waive the environmental reviews falls under a 2005 law which has expired. 'The Trump administration can't use an expired waiver to bypass crucial environmental protections to build these destructive projects' Brian Segee a senior attorney at CBDtold San Diego TV stationKGTV. 'It's time to stop Trump's hateful bombast and his executive overreach here in San Diego before it goes any further. The law and the Constitution are firmly on our side and we think the judge will agree.' The DHS is arguing that it is within its right to issue the waivers citing a 1996 immigration law. The case was set to be heard on Friday in San Diego by US DistrictJudge Gonzalo Curiel. Curiel came to national attention in 2016 when he was presiding over one of the cases against Trump University. Trump said that he was biased because of his 'Mexican Heritage' and Trump's stance on the border. At the time he told CNN'We are building a wall. He's a Mexican. We're building a wall between here and Mexico.' Now Curiel will be hearing a case about the wall. On Friday he heard two and a half hours of arguments and saidthat he was leaning toward deciding he has jurisdiction in a lawsuit that alleges the Trump administration overreached in waiving laws that require environmental and other reviews. The administration argues he doesn't have jurisdiction. Curiel asked the administration and wall opponents to file additional briefings by the end of Tuesday.	True	True	False	True	True
An upstate New York local official has promised no quarter in his towns battle against a planned wind power farm thathasDemocratic Gov. Andrew Cuomos support. Yates town councilman John Riggi opposes Apex Clean Energys plan to build a 200 megawatt wind turbine project over the objections of local officials and a majority of voters. Riggi says hes not opposed to green energy but doesnt want it nearby if his constituents dont support it. He wrote an editorial in a local paper this week pledging to accept no quarter in the fight against the Lighthouse Wind farm. The main concern is the desires of the constituency who are massively opposed to this project Riggi told The Daily Caller New Foundation. It is like 87 percent opposed. Cuomo plans to drastically increase New Yorks wind power capacity as part of his effort to phase out fossil fuels. Cuomo wants New York to get 50 percent of its electricity from green energy source by 2030. Cuomodid not return requests for comment to TheDCNF. Some of these turbines would be 750 feet high Riggi said. They want to put 70 of them in a 24 square mile area. It would completely change the community into something very different from how it feels Riggi said. People live here because they like rural living. They dont want their areas turned into industrialized zones. Lighthouse Wind could also run into opposition from environmentalists who are increasingly turning against wind power at the local level. Environmentalists have become concerned with wind powers impact on birds and bats. Wind farms kill an estimated 573000 birds and 888000 bats a year according to a 2013 peer reviewed study published in Wildlife Society Bulletin. Wind farms are projected to kill 1.4 million birds annually by 2030. This area sits astride the preeminent bird and avian flyway on the North American continent Riggi said. We have birds coming in massive amounts. Theres an issue with that. Its a danger to the birds and bats. Wind farms kill an estimated 573000 birds each year as well as888000 bats according to a 2013 peer reviewed study published inWildlife Society Bulletin.Wind farms are projected to kill1.4 million birds annuallyby 2030. Apex Clean Energy also works to ensure that our projects are responsibly sited for wildlife by conducting in depth environmental impact studies for every project Cat Strumlauf a spokesperson for Apex told TheDCNF. At every stage of development and operation we coordinate with federal and state wildlife agencies to make sure that our projects are sited in areas where impacts to birds or bats are minimized and appropriately mitigated if necessary. The projectcould harm with the regions economy potentially creating problems fora nearbyU.S. Air Force base. We also have an Air Force base 30 miles from the proposed project site Riggi said. The base is concerned about the wind project because it would mess with the radar. We have an aerial refueling and drone mission there. It could impact how theyre performing as well. The wind farm could make a nearby military base which is a critical part of the local economy much less useful. The base pump 200 million a year into the region and employs over 2600 people. Apex Clean Energy takes the safety and readiness of our military very seriously and we work closely with the Department of Defense and its services to ensure our wind energy facilities do not adversely impact military missions Strumlauf said. Riggi is also worried about the health concerns involving wind turbines. One of most common complaints about wind turbines by local residents is that they cause flickering when the sun is behind their blades. This is generally agreed to be incredibly annoying and theres evidence that it can cause headaches sleep disorders anxiety and depression symptoms in people who live nearby. Finally Riggi is concernedCuomos green goals give local governments very little flexibility to determine how they go green. One of the thing the governor is very clear on is that he wants all towns to become more green Riggi told TheDCNF. What I dont understand is with all of this going on why would the governor not allow the towns to choose how theyll support this initiative. Theres no flexibility. New York state currently gets less than 5 percent of its electricity from wind and solar according to the Energy Information AdministrationEIA. Thats a long way from Cuomos 50 percent by 2030 target. Do we want to reduce our carbon footprint? Riggi said. Certainly. But were not being given the option of deciding how to do it ourselves. Were full in on renewable energy but the town wants to have a choice. We want to be the ones to make the decisions on how were going to contribute. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	True	False	False	False	False
Most of the threats from climate change are 50 to 75 years out Wheeler asserted adding that the world should be focused on the people who are dying today the thousand children that die every day from lack of drinking water. Lets put aside the fact that climate change is not some distant challenge but one already wreaking havoc on communities around the globe and that Wheeler has proposed gutting existing regulations that protect drinking water. Its absurd to act like planetary warming isnt a significant threat to the worlds freshwater resources. Its the biggest threat of all. Climate change is a multiplier. Very few of the problems that we have right now related to water are going to be made better by climate change. Thats not going to happen. Theres no denying the magnitude of the water crisis in the U.S. and abroad. Droughts which are made worse by climate change lead towater shortages while inland and coastal flooding can contaminate drinking water supplies. Under the current climate change scenario nearly half the global population will be living in areas of high water stress by 2030 according to the United Nations which warns that water is the primary medium through which we will feel the effects of climate change. Last years Fourth National Climate Assessment the work of hundreds of scientists at more than a dozen federal agencies including the EPA documents significant changes in water quality and quantity across the country and warns that water security in the United States is increasingly in jeopardy. The report details how rising temperatures and variable precipitation can have cascading effects on water quality increasing the risk of drought pollutant runoff and harmful algal blooms. Climate change is a multiplier Caldas said. Very few of the problems that we have right now related to water are going to be made better by climate change. Thats not going to happen. Its unsurprising that Wheeler is calling for a massive mobilization to tackle water woes without acknowledging the climate change link considering the administrations relentless push to boost domestic fossil fuel production. It is also reminiscent of former Interior Department chief Ryan Zinkes response to wildfires in the western United States. And in an interview with Fox Business after returning to Washington D.C. Zinke said whether climate change is contributing to the infernos is irrelevant to whats occurred. He emphasized the need for better forest management by pointing to themore than 120 million dead trees in California but failed to mention that the trees died because of a multi year drought that scientists have concluded was made worse by anthropogenic climate change. When a reporter later pressed him outside the White House Zinke said that of course climate change is a factor in the California fires a rather unconvincing acknowledgment considering previous remarks and the number of times Zinke cast doubt on the all but irrefutable body of scientific research that shows human carbon emissions are driving global climate change. Early in his tenure former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt prioritized fixing Superfund the struggling and financially strapped program responsible for cleaning up the nations most contaminated sites. The administration then turned around and proposed slashing funding for the program from 1.09 billion to 762 million. Pruitt said that it wasnt a lack of money that was plaguing the program but rather poor leadership and poor focus on the part of the Obama administration. Superfunds problems have almost everything to do with resources which have all but dried up over the last two decades. Superfund experts havesaid the administrations approach highlights its lack of understanding about how the program functions. EPA maintains that Superfund is a top priority and that it is making great strides in accelerating sites through remediation and back to productive use. Yet the 4.75 trillion 2020 budget blueprint the administration released this month once again calls for cutting Superfund dollars this time by 10 percent.	True	True	True	True	False
Global warming is partially responsible for a decades old oil spill that happened after an Exxon Mobil tanker hit a barrier reef according to a Los Angeles Times report funded in part by liberal billionaire George Soros. The LA Times published a wide ranging piece Thursday suggesting climate change laid the groundwork for the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill a disaster that eventually dumped more than 10 million gallons of crude off the coast of Alaska. Higher than normal water temperatures near Prince William Sound caused ice bergs to chip off the Columbia Glacier and force the ship into uncharted territory. Floating chunks of ice forced the tanker out of its primary shipping lane the paper noted. It veered off and crashed into the Bligh Reef causing Exxon more than 3.4 billion through 2008 in cleanup costs and court settlements. Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project the group that conducted the papers report was also involved in an investigation last November targeting Exxons climate change research. Thursdays report dovetails with the groups previous investigations showing the oil company hid knowledge about climate change from the public for years. For the two decades following the Exxon Valdez disaster the company worked quietly to safeguard its operations and infrastructure against steadily rising sea levels and thawing permafrost The LA Times wrote. Yet in public it vociferously fought regulations and policies that would have limited fossil fuel emissions while publicly questioning the science behind climate change. Some climate scientists believe the LA Times is taking a leap of faith. Roy Spencer a climate scientist at the University of Alabama in Huntsville for one told The Daily Caller News Foundation that ice always calves off glaciers because snow falls on the mountains and the ice flows downhill no global warming needed. There is a perfectly reasonable explanation for why ice bergs were cleaving off glaciers at the time of the Valdez disaster he said and it doesnt really have anything to do with man made global warming. If the Columbia Glacier was calving more in the 1980s its most likely because the Pacific Decadal Oscillation PDO flipped in the late 1970s which caused it to suddenly warm in Alaska Spencer added referencing an El Nino like weather pattern that commonly affects the area the oil spill. What happened to the Valdez is no different than what happened to the Titanic he said referring to the passenger ship that hit an iceberg in 1912 which killed thousands of people heading to New York from England. Several wealthy philanthropic groups such as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund RBF Rockefeller Family Fund RFF and the Open Society Foundations bankrolled large portions of the LA Times report. Soros is the director and founder of Open Society and has financed climate crusades in the past. RFF has single handedly financially propped up the anti Exxon campaign. It also pressured various attorneys general into investigating Exxon namely for the purposes of bringing the company up on racketeering charges. The only way to target Exxon for hiding climate change research was to request the New York AGs office to open an investigation into the company David Kaiser and Lee Wasserman directors of RFFwrote in an editorialfor New York Books. The LA Times for its part has failed in the past to disclose itsties with RFF. Wassermanwrote an op edin January for the California paper fleshing out specifics about the probes into Exxons climate research. The paper disclosed the Wassermans financial contributions to the investigation but falsely suggested RFF had nothing to do with the investigations. TheFund has made grants to the Columbia Journalism Schools Energy and Environment Reporting Project and InsideClimate News but hasno involvement in articles they produce the papers disclosure notes. The disclosure implies RFF did not actively participate in the investigations which were first reported by environmental media group InsideClimate News and the LA Times last November. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	True	False	False	True	True
NASAs Cassini spacecraft has detected hydrogen molecules in the geysers shooting off the moon Enceladus possibly the result of deep sea chemical reactions between water and rock that could spark microbial life scientists announced Thursday. NASA and others are quick to point out this latest discovery does not mean theres life on Enceladus ehn SEHL uh duhs but that there may be conditions favorable for life. A liquid ocean exists beneath the icy surface of Enceladus which is barely 300 miles 500 kilometers across. Scientists have long known about the plumes of water vapor spewing from cracks at the moons south pole thanks to Cassini . The heavy presence of hydrogen suggests chemical reactions between the warm water and ocean floor rock that could support life. Cassini uncovered the hydrogen during its final close flyby of Enceladus in 2015 when it dove deeper than ever through its plumes of vapor and particles. The researchers reported that the hydrogen along with carbon dioxide that was also found could mean that undersea microbes are producing methane as they do in the bowels of our own oceans and waterways. It really represents a capstone finding for the mission said Cassinis project scientist Linda Spilker noting that the spacecraft has been circling Saturn for more than a decade. We now know that Enceladus has almost all of the ingredients that you would need to support life as we know it on Earth she said at a NASA news conference. A press conference viewer asking questions of the scientists via Twitter asked if NASA was talking about bacteria or algae or giant squids. Most of us would be excited with any life said Mary Voytek an astrobiology senior scientist for NASA. Were going to start with bacteria and if we get lucky maybe theres something thats larger. The findings were reported Thursday in the journal Science by a team from Southwest Research Institute in San Antonio. Launched in 1997 and now finally running low on fuel Cassini is drawing ever closer to its demise. The spacecraft will duck through the gap between Saturn and its rings 22 times before spiraling out of control and vaporizing in the sky above Saturn this September. Cassini has no instruments that can detect life so it will be up to future robotic visitors to seek out possible life on Enceladus the scientists said. Europa an ice covered moon of Jupiter also believed to have a subsurface ocean may have water vapor jets spewing into space as well similar to Enceladus. The Hubble Space Telescope has observed what looks to be plumes emanating from Europa. A spacecraft under development called the Europa Clipper to launch sometime in the 2020s could shed more light on the matter. Voytek said her money is still on Europa for potential life versus Enceladus since Europa is much older and any potential life there has had more time to emerge. While questions remain Thursdays news represents an important advance in assessing the habitability of Enceladus Woods Hole Oceanographic Institutions Jeffrey Seewald wrote in a companion article. We still have a long way to go in our understanding said Seewald who was not involved in the study. Future missions to explore oceans beyond Earth will answer many of these questions.	True	False	False	True	False
CNN The new government report on climate change which the Trump administration released quietly a day after Thanksgiving and two days after President Donald Trump tweeted skeptically about the existence of climate change warns that the drastic human effects on the climate could cause thousands of Americans to die and cost the US economy hundreds of billions of dollars. But even before the report was made public Americans were extremely worried about climate change. Almost two thirds 64 of voters said the US needs to be doing more to address climate change according to a poll by Quinnipiac University in August up from 57 who said the same in December 2015 This opinion is divided by party lines 91 of Democrats said more should be done and 67 of independents agreed. Fewer Republicans one third said more should be done about climate change and another third of Republicans thought that the US is doing enough to address climate change. In the December 2015 Quinnipiac poll 83 of Democrats thought the US should be doing more compared to 62 of independents and 26 of Republicans. The Trump administration chose to speed up release of the new report which is required by law putting it out on Black Friday instead of in December. It also came two days after Trump issued another tweet transmitting his skepticism of the existence of Climate change. Brutal and Extended Cold Blast could shatter ALL RECORDS Whatever happened to Global Warming? he said Wednesday on Twitter. An earlier portion of the climate change report was released in November 2017 and found no convincing alternative explanation for the changing climate other than human activities especially emissions of greenhouse gases. Trump has stood by his years old claim that climate change is a hoax and emphasized that belief with his statements about the California wildfires which he said were a result of poor forest management drawing criticism from firefighters climate scientists and many others. The government report which is called the National Climate Assessment addressed wildfires reporting that one impact of climate change will be longer and more destructive wildfires that could burn up to six times more forest annually by 2050 in parts of the US. California's wildfires are the worst in the state's history. Over half 53 of voters in the August Quinnipiac poll said climate change is a factor in making fires more extreme. At that point the fires in California were only beginning and some are still burning in November so it's unclear whether that number has changed since August. Eight in 10 Democrats 54 of independents and 22 of Republicans thought in August that climate change has an impact the fires. Another impact of climate change will be on the health of Americans whether because of extreme heat and higher temperatures diseases like Zika that come from mosquitoes and ticks more food and waterborne diseases or higher risk of asthma and allergies. Concern about climate change and global warming has gone up in the last few years from 33 who said they worry a great deal about it in March 2013 to 43 who say the same now according to Gallup Around the same number 45 said they think global warming will pose a serious threat to them or their way of life in their lifetimes in the March poll. That's up from 2010 when Gallup first asked it and only a third of Americans thought global warming would impact them. Democrats are much more likely to think they'll be impacted 67 than independents 45 or Republicans 18 but whether that's because more Democrats live in coastal regions or due to just plain partisanship it's hard to tell. In a statement by White House deputy press secretary Lindsey Walters the Trump administration downplayed the report saying it is largely based on the most extreme scenario which contradicts long established trends by assuming that despite strong economic growth that would increase greenhouse gas emissions there would be limited technology and innovation and a rapidly expanding population.	False	True	False	True	True
Glamour Rep. John Shimkus R Ill. long a climate change denier who in the past has relied on Bible verses to make his case argued against the Green New Deal at a House hearing on Wednesday. Moments after he started speaking Wednesday morning before the House Committee on Energy and Commerce Rep. John Shimkus R Ill. urged Democrats to accept that proposing top down government requirements to rapidly decarbonize the U.S. and global economies may not be the most realistic way to address the climate change problem. We should be open to the fact that wealth transfer schemes suggested in the radical policies like the Green New Deal may not be the best path said Shimkus who less than a decade ago deployed Bible verses to dismiss the realities of climate science. Two congressional hearings on Wednesday morning the first science based discussions in the House focused on climate change in years did little to move the needle on a long stagnant policy debate on how to keep global warming from reaching temperatures with catastrophic consequences. But GOP opposition to a Green New Deal the grassroots effort to dramatically cut greenhouse gas emissions that has energized activists for months was on full display. Once a vague term for clean energy stimulus the Green New Deal re emergedin the political discourse in mid 2018. A cadre of left wing Democratic candidates began using it to describe plans to spend trillions of dollars on a national industrial strategy to zero out fossil fuel emissions and power the country with 100 percent renewables in a decade. The proposals electrified a static debate that too often ranged from outright denialism of climate change by some to dubious market fixes offered by others. Scientists quickly praised the idea of a Green New Deal as the first policy on the scale of the climate crisis. In November newly elected Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. positioned herself as the champion of the Green New Deal movement. After failing to persuade House Democratic leaders to establish a select committee on a Green New Deal she began work on a sweeping new resolution outlining a transformative policy to guarantee high wage clean energy jobs to millions of Americans and upgrade the nations crumbling infrastructure to withstand already unavoidable extreme weather and sea level rise. Despite years of partisan bickering over the realities of climate change the idea proved popular. Eighty one percent of registered voters said they supported the main goals of the Green New Deal in a poll released in December. That included 64 percent of Republicans and 57 percent of self described conservative Republicans. Last month another poll found a narrow majority of voters said they supported a Green New Deal even if it required raising taxes to fund it. Rich Powell the executive director of the conservative clean energy advocacy group ClearPath complained that the emissions projected to come from new coal fired plants in other countries particularly India and China would completely offset the climate benefits of the U.S. completely decarbonizing. As HuffPost reported on Tuesday the Green New Deal resolution Ocasio Cortez and Sen. Ed Markey D Mass. are expected to unveil this week does just that calling on the nation to promote the international exchange of technology expertise products funding and services with the aim to reclaim U.S. leadership on climate change to help other countries achieve a Green New Deal. You only have to be 25 years old to be a member of Congress. We have young people that bring a lot of great qualities but maybe they dont bring a lot of life experience he said. I guess I can understand if someone has not had a lot of life experience and theyre proposing something thats extremely unrealistic well impossible. Impossible. What I dont understand is adults and grownups who are older and more mature who are also advocating something thats impossible he added referring to several of the 2020 Democratic presidential hopefuls. Rep. Louie Gohmert R Texas resorted to misrepresenting the Green New Del proposal in arguing against it. He said he and other Republicans have real concerns about shuttering military bases around the globe and cutting military spending by 50 percent proposals floated not by any congressional Democrats in the climate change debate but by Green Party presidential nominee Jill Stein in 2016. Gohmert told panel witness Rev. Lennox Yearwood president of the national nonprofitHip Hop Caucus that he found it interesting at the activist would support a Green New Deal given Yearwoods previous service as an officer in the U.S. Air Force Reserve Chaplain Corps.	False	False	False	True	False
Reuters U.S. presidential hopeful Kamala Harris campaign is finalizing a plan to tackle climate change that will center on cracking down on fossil fuel companies and protecting poor neighborhoods from the worst impacts of global warming according to two sources familiar with the matter. The plan is meant to set the U.S. senator from California apart in a crowded field of Democratic presidential candidates by drawing on her experience prosecuting polluters as a California attorney general and district attorney. At the same time it is intended to assuage environmental activists worried that she has downplayed climate change on the campaign trail. All of the other top tier presidential candidates have already detailed aggressive plans to eliminate U.S. greenhouse gas emissions within 10 to 30 years tapping into what has become a crucial issue for Democratic voters. She wants to distinguish herself from other candidates that have already laid out climate plans with her own approach that plays to her strengths focusing on environmental justice and enforcement said one of the sources. Like the other candidates Harris plan will also likely target a swift end to fossil fuels use though the details are still being drafted the sources said. The campaign is expected to release the plan ahead of a climate change focused town hall with the candidates on Sept. 4 they said. A spokeswoman for Harris campaign Kate Waters declined to comment on the details but said Harris would be releasing something soon. While activist groups say they are generally happy with Harris environmental credentials she has drawn their criticism since launching her presidential bid. Last week for example she came under fire from the Sunrise Movement and other climate change activists when she initially declined to participate in the televised Sept. 4 climate change town hall to attend a fundraiser. Her campaign later announced she had changed her plans and would attend. During campaign speeches she tends to include a brief mention of climate change calling it a real crisis and adding that she would re engage the United States in global efforts to fight it if elected. Republican President Donald Trump has rolled back U.S. climate change rules he views as damaging to the economy and announced plans to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement an international accord to limit global warming. Bahram Fazeli director of research and policy for Communities for a Better Environment a California focused environmental justice group said Harris record on the environment was decent. As a senator Harris was among the original co sponsors of the Green New Deal a nonbinding congressional resolution to zero out U.S. emissions by 2030 and introduced bills to denounce Trumps efforts to roll back Californias vehicle emissions standards and drill for oil and natural gas in federal waters. She has also co sponsored an environmental justice bill with Green New Deal author congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio Cortez which includes the creation of a federal office for environmental justice. Previously as Californias attorney general Harris was charged with protecting the states progressive environmental laws in the courts. Her biggest environmental victory according to green groups came in 2016 when a grand jury indicted Plains All American Pipeline on criminal charges related to a 2015 oil spill off the coast of Santa Barbara. She also reportedly launched an investigation in 2016 into whether Exxon Mobil lied to the public and shareholders about the risks of climate change though her office never confirmed the probe. Since then both New York and Massachusetts have pursued cases against the oil company. Earlier as district attorney for San Francisco Harris also created the citys first environmental crimes unit.	True	True	False	True	True
Americans should not be fooled by the Stalinist tactics being used by the White House to try to discredit the findings of mainstream climate science. The Trump administration has already purged information news2018nov01epa website climate change trump administration about climate change from government websites gagged federal experts news2017feb16science advisers climate change trump gag rule john holdren and attempted to end funding for climate change programmes budget cuts climate change clean up programs epa. Now a group of hardcore climate change deniers and contrarians linked to the administration is organising a petition leads coalition letter commission climate security in support of a new panel being set up by the National Security Council to promote an alternative official explanation for climate change. The panel will consist of scientists who do not accept the overwhelming scientific evidence that rising levels of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are behind climate change and its impacts. The petition is being circulated for signature by Myron Ebell movement greatest threat freedom says trump adviser myron ebell of the Competitive Enterprise Institute a lobby group for free market fanatics which has become infamous for championing climate change denial It does not disclose its sources of funding but is known to have received money from ExxonMobil and conservative billionaires trump global climate change denial environment such as the Koch brothers. Mr Ebell who has no expertise whatsoever in climate science or any kind of science for that matter was a member of Donald Trumps presidential transition team news2016dec12donald trump environment climate change skeptics and diverted the focus of the Environmental Protection Agency towards weakening and removing policies that limit pollution by companies including President Obamas Clean Power Plan. The creation of the new panel of climate change deniers and the recruitment of supporters to provide it with a veneer of legitimacy echoes the campaign by Joseph Stalins regime to discredit the work of geneticists who disagreed with the disastrous lysenko soviet union russia548786 pseudo scientific theories of Trofim Lysenko. Lysenko wrongly believed that acquired traits could be passed on by parents to their offspring. Stalin embraced lysenkoism as the basis for Soviet agricultural policy while also denouncing and persecuting Lysenkos scientific critics. The Trump administrations climate lysenkoism is being led by William Happer a retired professor from Princeton University who was hired by the National Security Council house role physicist happer 64 takes position senior science technology adviser in September 2018 as deputy assistant to the president and senior director for emerging technologies. Media reports suggest that Professor Happer and his fellow propagandists will target the Fourth National Climate Assessment which was prepared by leading researchers in the United States and concluded last November The impacts of climate change are already being felt in communities across the country. Although the report was subjected to rigorous review by Americas top experts at the National Academy of Sciences it was rejected by President Trump who told journalists I dont believe it. dire economic forecast climate change dont believe2118152002 Professor Happer who has not published any research on climate change in a reputable science journal has been celebrated for many years by climate change contrarians and deniers around the world. He was formerly a trustee of the George C Marshall Institute which received funding from ExxonMobil and other companies to spread doubt inside and outside the United States about the role of fossil fuels in climate change. It disappeared in 2015 and was replaced by the CO2 Coalition which was co founded by Professor Happer. The website for the Coalition asked questions 0283fe86 6ba7 makes many inaccurate and misleading assertions such as Readily available data from both governmental and non governmental sources confirms that extreme weather events in recent years have not happened more often or with greater intensity. In fact the Fifth Assessment Report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change published in 2013 concluded Changes in many extreme weather and climate events have been observed since about 1950. A recent leak of the Coalitons tax filing showed that its largest donors are conservative groups such as the Mercer Family Foundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation which have a long track record of funding climate change denial. Professor Happer has also collaborated with climate change deniers in other countries such as the United Kingdom. In 2010 he joined the Academic Advisory Committee of the Global Warming Policy Foundation which was set up by Lord Lawson to campaign against polices to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the consumption of fossil fuels. He stepped down from the committee when he was hired by the White House. The foundation published a pamphlet by Professor Happer reportshapper thetruthaboutgreenhousegases.pdf in August 2011 which disputed the scientific evidence that greenhouse gases are causing climate change. In July 2014 Professor Happer caused controversy during an interview on CNBC television climate expert demonization of carbon dio200107 in the United States when he claimed that the demonisation of carbon dioxide is just like the demonisation of the poor Jews under Hitler. Carbon dioxide is actually a benefit to the world and so were the Jews. He was also forced to defend himself after Greenpeace revealed an exchange of email messages Email Chain Happer O Keefe and Donors Trust.html during which Professor Happer discussed writing reports to promote climate change denial in exchange for a secret fee paid to the CO2 Coalition. Americans should not be conned by the Trump administrations climate lysenkoism and should instead place their trust in the robust findings of climate researchers climate09.pdf who place the public interest ahead of political ideology. 	False	True	False	False	False
According to Lawrence Solomon of Energy Probe a Toronto based environmental organization Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is one of the only signers of the Paris agreement who is actually abiding by the exacting demands of the accord. Meanwhile Solomon notes in an essay in Fridays Financial Post most signatories are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios. Trudeau now stands almost alone in sincere support of Paris Solomon writes. The populist backlash a revulsion at top down governments laden with jet setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses has swept America with Trumps election Great Britain with Brexit much of Europe and Australia. In the process global warming enthusiasts are being swept out he writes. Last week Australia rejected its Clean Energy Target CET a lengthy proposal that would have forced electricity utilities to rely on renewables and other low emission sources for a substantial percentage of their production. The measure had been put forward as a way of complying with requirements of the non binding Paris agreement. Earlier this month the prominent Australian economist Judith Sloan wrote a scathing essay decrying renewable energy as the greatest scam being perpetrated against taxpayers and consumers greater even than Ponzi Madoffor Enron. While sinking enormous financial resources into propping up renewable energy prospectors national governments are providing no perceptible benefits to their citizens Sloan wrote. With very few exceptions governments all over the world have fallen into the trap of paying renewable energy scammers on the basis that it is necessary at least politically to be seen to be doing something about climate change Sloan writes before providing readers with an avalanche of economic data to back up her assertion. Apparently Sloans arguments and those of like minded analysts prevailed on policy makers and the country rejected the CET with its taxpayer funded subsidizing of renewables. A second blow to disciples of the Paris Climate Accord was last weeks Austrian election Solomon argues which saw two conservative parties with no interest in climate change it wasnt even an election issue come in first and second making them likely to form a pro carbon coalition government. Germany too which has been a staunch proponent of anti climate change regulations has fallen hopelessly behind in meeting its carbon targets according to a leak. The current state of affairs has not only undermined Germanys climate policy but also jeopardizes Germanys international reputation as a climate leader Solomon asserts. According to the analyst popular opinion against German Chancellor Angela Merkels Energiewende energy transition policies which had doubled electricity prices played no small part in Merkels terrible showing in last months national elections. Costs of the ill fated Energiewende now total some 650 billion a bill that weighs heavily on the shoulders of German taxpayers. Late last year to their national embarrassment the Germans had to be bailed out of a small energy crisis by Poland when the wind failed to blow for several days and a thick fog surrounded many parts of Germany driving the output from renewables to just 4 percent of total demand. It was coal fueled Poland that had to rescue Germany from its self induced energy crisis. Merkel may now be unable to form a government without the support of the libertarian Free Democratic Party which demands an end to renewables subsidies Solomon notes. And so around the worldexcept in Trudeaus Canadanations are once again turning back to inexpensive coal rather than pouring more money into costly renewables and coal plants are being built at five times the rate that old plants are being decommissioned. This quiet revolution may simply be a welcome return to common sense and realism. After all once the photo ops are finished and the politically correct accords are duly signed amidst solemn brow furling political leaders must get back to the business of meeting the real needs of their citizenswhich all depend on the availability of affordable energy.	True	False	False	True	True
President Donald Trump tweeted Sunday that a series of deadly wildfires hitting California are 'being magnified made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized.' Trump complained that the water is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean and called for clearing forests as a means of stopping fires from spreading. He didn't thank the armies of firefighters who are battling the blazes or the nine people who have died in the infernos. In September 2017 Trump's Interior Department ordered national parks to clear underbrush and small trees as a preventive measure. Two White House spokespersons did not respond to a question Monday about what Trump's tweet meant. But the president's claim about water drew a combination of laughing and head scratching on Sunday although years of drought may be one factor in the fires' quick spread. 'It boggles the mind' said UC Merced professor LeRoy Westerling who specializes in wildfire and climatology. 'We do manage all of our rivers in California and all the water is allocated many times over. So Im not sure what he was recommending' he told the San Francisco Chronicle. The only broadly discussed proposal for diverting water away from the Pacific came three years ago from a group calledTree People which called for more Californians to collect rainwater draining off roofs and down concrete streets. California already strictly metes out water rights for agricultural industrial and residential use. Firefighters haven't complained about a lack of water resources. And most engaged in the effort are using chemical flame retardants. The White House also announced Sunday that Trump had issued a 'major disaster' declaration in affected areas of Shasta County where about 150000 acres west of the city of Redding are engulfed in flames. That move gives Californians access to unemployment assistance food aid and legal and mental health counseling and makes federal financial assistance available to cities and counties that will have to repair billions of dollars worth of infrastructure damage. It also allows federal agencies to help battle the 17 major fires burning throughout the state including what is now known as the 'Carr fire' which is just 40 per cent contained and has incinerated more than 1000 homes.	False	False	False	False	False
SACRAMENTO Calif. Commissions that oversee coastal lands and water pushed the Trump administration to leave California out of plans to expand offshore drilling saying the state will throw up any barriers possible to prevent pumping and transportation of oil. The warning came weeks after Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke said he wants to open nearly all U.S. coastlines to offshore oil and gas drilling. Since then the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management has proposed six sales of drilling rights off the California coast and a seventh off Oregon and Washington between 2020 and 2023. Given how unpopular oil development in coastal waters is in California it is certain that the state would not approve new pipelines or allow the use of existing pipelines to transport oil from new leases onshore the State Lands Commission wrote in a letter Wednesday to federal officials. The commission controls up to 3 miles offshore at which point federal jurisdiction kicks in. It has not allowed drilling in the state controlled waters since a 1969 oil spill near Santa Barbara. State and local governments could also block the construction of helipads and other infrastructure on land needed to support offshore operations. In the 1980s many coastal cities passed ordinances to block such infrastructure when President Ronald Reagan looked to expand offshore drilling. Many of those laws remain in place. Drillers could find ways around state and local restrictions such as pumping oil directly onto ships for transport but the process is expensive and may not be profitable if oil prices remain relatively low. A separate letter from the California Coastal Commission warned that an oil spill would devastate the states tourism economy and coastal beauty. The letter pointed to the Santa Barbara spill which caused severe environmental damage hurt the fishing industry and dissuaded tourists from visiting. The commission has authority to review activities in federally controlled waters. It cant block drilling but could file a lawsuit contending the move doesnt meet ocean management plans approved jointly by the state and federal governments in the 1970s. Weve fought similar efforts before and we will fight them again Coastal Commission Chair Dayna Bochco said. The state agencies weighed in ahead of a public meeting Thursday in Sacramento the only opportunity for people to register their opinions in person to the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management. Fishermen environmentalists surfers and other critics demonstrated outside the state Capitol before marching to the meeting at a nearby library. Several demonstrators chanted in opposition at the open house style meeting where bureau scientists talked one on one with visitors and collected written comments. Why do we want to let someone start drilling for more oil when we need to be putting money into resources for green economy and green fuel said Jim Wilson a 71 year old retired mail carrier from Placerville outside Sacramento. Earlier in the day the California Assembly voted overwhelmingly to oppose renewed drilling. We are California and we will fight back to protect our beautiful coast said Assemblyman Al Muratsuchi of Torrance. Republicans Randy Voepel of Santee and Travis Allen of Huntington Beach said California can safely harvest oil and gas. Allen a GOP candidate for governor said that could help lower gasoline prices. Most of Californias outer continental shelf the area that would be opened to drilling is in shallow water where operations are not complicated said Tim Charters senior director of government and political affairs for the National Ocean Industries Association a trade group for the offshore energy industry. Its critical to keep the dollars at home create the jobs locally instead of sending the money overseas and creating jobs in foreign places he said. Zinke angered critics when he said drilling off Floridas coast would remain off limits prompting California Gov. Jerry Brown and others to request a similar exemption. Regulators later said no final decision had been made about Florida. On Tuesday more than 100 demonstrators gathered outside Oregons state Capitol in Salem to denounce the proposal. A day later in New Jersey more than a dozen groups held a rally in the driving rain on the Asbury Park boardwalk to demonstrate their opposition. Twenty three meetings are planned nationwide in coastal states. Comments can be submitted online through March 9.	True	True	False	True	True
A United Nations special climate report suggests a tax on carbon dioxide emissions would need to be as high as 27000 per ton at the end of the century to effectively limit global warming. For Americans thats the same as a 240 per gallon tax on gasoline in the year 2100 should such a recommendation be adopted. In 2030 the report says a carbon tax would need to be as high as 5500 thats equivalent to a 49 per gallon gas tax. If you think thats an unlikely scenario youre probably not wrong. However its what the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes report released Sunday night sees as a policy option for reducing emissions enough to keep projected warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. The IPCCs report is meant to galvanize political support for doubling down on the Paris climate accord ahead of a U.N. climate summit scheduled for December. The report calls for societal changes that are unprecedented in terms of scale in order to limit future global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius the stretch goal of the Paris accord. However the costs of meeting that goal are high based on the IPCCs own figures. RELATED Heres What The Media Wont Tell You About The U.N.s New Climate Report In order to effectively keep future warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius the IPCC says carbon taxes would need to range from 135 to 5500 per ton in 2030 245 to 13000 per ton in 2050 420 to 17000 per ton in 2070 and 690 to 27000 per ton in 2100. To meet the goals of the Paris accord which seeks to limit future warming to below 2 degrees Celsius the IPCC says carbon taxes would have range between 10 and 200 in 2030 and 160 and 2125 in 2100. Thats equivalent to a gas tax as high as 1.70 per gallon in 2030 to nearly 19 per gallon at the end of the century. Thats less onerous than limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius but still no walk in the park. California and many European countries have policies to price carbon dioxide emissions and mandate green energy including cap and trade systems and carbon taxes. But carbon prices under those systems are nowhere near where the IPCC says they need to be. The IPCC said the price of carbon would need to increase significantly when a higher level of stringency is pursued. However the groups report tacitly acknowledges the unlikelihood that governments will enact astronomical taxes on energy. While the price of carbon is central to prompt mitigation pathways compatible with 1.5 degree Celsius consistent pathways a complementary mix of stringent policies is required reads the IPCCs report. In the U.S. Republican lawmakers overwhelmingly passed a resolution opposed to carbon taxes in July. Democrats called for a price on carbon dioxide in their 2016 party platform but they havent made much effort on that front since the failure of cap and trade legislation in 2010. Republican Rep. Carlos Curbelo of Florida introduced carbon tax legislation shortly after all but five of his GOP colleagues in the House voted to oppose such a bill. Curbelos bill would tax carbon dioxide at 23 a ton nowhere near what the IPCC calls for. However the IPCC suggested a lower carbon tax could be used in conjunction with command and control policies like regulations and bans on coal plants could achieve generate a 1.5C pathway for the U.S. electric sector. But that point only serves to undermine Curbelos bill which would put a moratorium on some environmental regulations and possibly eliminate some if emissions goals are reached. The IPCC noted the literature indicates that the pricing of emissions is relevant but needs to be complemented with other policies to drive the required changes in line with 1.5C consistent cost effective pathways.	True	True	True	True	True
Former Secretary of State John Kerry and Rep. Thomas Massie R Ky. had a heated exchange Tuesday over Kerry's education andclimate change. Kerry 75 appeared before the House Oversight and Reform Committee hearing to talk about climate change. The incredible exchange began when Massie read a quote Kerry said regarding President Trumps advisers. It sounds like youre questioning the credentials of the presidents advisers but I dont think we should question your credentials today. Isnt it true you have a science degree from Yale? Massie asked Kerry. Kerry replied that he had a bachelor of arts degree from the university. JOHN KERRY 'IT'S A MISTAKE TO TALK ABOUT IMPEACHMENT' Yes its political science the former Massachusetts senator said. So how do you get a bachelor of arts in science? the congressman asked. So its not really science. I think its somewhat appropriate that somebody with a pseudoscience degree is here pushing pseudoscience in front of our committee Massie said before Kerry fired back. Are you serious? I mean this is really happening here? the former secretary of state asked. JOHN KERRY SLAMMED FOR 'SHAMEFUL' SHADOW DIPLOMACY AFTER ADMITTING TO MEETINGS WITH IRAN The two men continued their back and forth before Massie asked Kerry if he was saying the president doesnt have educated adults there now. I dont know who he has there because it'ssecret he replied. Why would he have to have a secret analysis of climate change? The two then began to discusscarbon dioxide levels on the planet today versus millions of years ago. But there werent human beings that was a different world folks Kerry said. So howd it get to 2000 parts per million if we humans werent here? Did geology stop when we got on the planet? Massie asked. This is just not a serious conversation Kerry fired back. Its almost as if someone said Congress has hit rock bottom and Massie replies with hold my beer he wrote. CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP Massie replied to Kerrys tweet saying Its almost as if someone said No one has less knowledge of science a higher opinion of himself and a bigger carbon footprint than Al Gore and Kerry replies hold my champagne Im going to testify as a climate change expert.	False	True	False	True	False
Democrats and conservatives alike say they can help President Donald Trump cut corporate taxes and put money in the pockets of American taxpayers but it will come at a price penalizing coal miners and fossil fuel interests for contributing to global warming. A pair of Democratic senators and the bipartisan Climate Leadership Council aim to make a fee on carbon emissions part of tax reform. Their plans would essentially transfer money from greenhouse gas polluters to individual and corporate taxpayers. The goal of a carbon tax is to reduce the use of goods and services that produce greenhouse gas emissions and to convince companies to reduce their emissions. That would be a hard pill for Trump to swallow given his pledge to revive the coal industry and put miners back to work.	True	True	False	True	True
Former Vice President Al Gore said the Central American migrant caravan seeking asylum in the U.S. is a recent startling example of global warming forcing people from their homes. People from all over the world are being forced to migrate because the climate crisis is affecting their livelihood. The migrant caravan from Central America is a recent startling example Gore tweeted Monday. The migrant caravan made up of thousands of mostly young males from Honduras and other Central American countries arrived at the U.S. Mexico border in November seeking asylum. Migrants are fleeing violent corrupt countries with poor economies but some environmentalists and journalists claim global warming is also to blame. Gore pointed to a Financial Times video on climate change and the migrant caravan claiming that while most migrants are fleeing violence climate change is also playing a part based on an interview with a farmer turned migrant whos crop failed. The video published on Dec. 13 largely reflects arguments made by some media outlets in the past few months that migrant caravans to the U.S. are a preview of climate migrations meaning people driven from their homes due to global warming. Many experts who have seriously examined claims linking climate to violent conflict and mass migrations have found little evidence to support such claims but the media still applied the narrative by linking global warming to Central American migrations. Experts say that climate change in the region is exacerbating and sometimes causing a miasma of other problems including crop failures and povertyThe Guardian reported in October. And they warn that in the coming decades it is likely to push millions more people north towards the US the paper reported. Central American officials also claim global warming is part of the reason why their citizens are fleeing en mass. Governments say droughts have been made more frequent and intense by global warming. However the latest United Nations climate report in 2014 found low confidence in a global scale observed trend in drought or dryness lack of rainfall since the middle of the 20th century. The Guardian also noted that federal data showed a surge in outward migration from western Honduras a prime coffee producing area. The collapse in coffee bean prices has made growing it less profitable forcing migrants to hit the road. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	False	True
Arriving at the UN General Assembly US President Donald Trump paid no attention to Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg. Caught on camera her stare sparked a thousand tweets and divided the public. While Thunberg was giving a fiery speech at the UNGA Climate Action Summit Trump was speaking at an event about religious freedom. Video from the UN headquarters on East River shows Thunberg scowling as Trump enters the building to speak to reporters not even registering her presence. Trumps critics were quick to make Thunberg their sherodescribing her stare their new life goals and declaring that the 16 year old climate activist became president today. We are all Greta another resistance activist proclaimed sharing a photo of Thunberg scowling at Trump next to a photo of her meeting his predecessor Barack Obama. Conservatives who saw the images reacted differently praising Trump for ignoring Thunberg as if he did it on purpose and even meme ing her scowl to music and song lyrics. Trump has nixed dozens of Obama administration environmental regulations calling them deadly to the economy much to the outrage of climate activists. A faction among the Democrats has since proposed a Green New Deal that would eliminate carbon emissions altogether and reorder the US economy entirely warning that otherwise the world would end in 12 years. Thunberg is even more pessimistic. At the current rate the world will go over the carbon emissions cap in eight and a half years she warned in her speech on Monday. You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words she thundered at the world leaders on Monday. People are suffering. People are dying. Entire ecosystems are collapsing. We are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth. How dare you! Thunbergs fiery speech was likewise met with praise or disdain depending on where one stood in regard to the narrative of manmade climate change. The environmentalist movement is increasingly convinced that humanity is destroying the planet and has already called for banning the production and consumption of meat outlawing fossil fuels and shuttering down nuclear power plants despite the cost and burden on people that may produce. Later on Monday the president did finally notice the young activist. In an apparent jab at Thunberg he tweeted she looked like a very happy girl alongside a clip of her 'angry' address before the UN. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	False	True	False	True	True
In an interview with Breitbart News last month the former Montana congressman and Navy SEAL dismissed reports that his days in the Trump administration were numbered as nothing more than rumors. But the intense scrutiny Zinke was certain to face next year from House Democrats wielding new oversight authority turned out to be a fight that he or perhaps the boss hes been so loyal to wasnt up for. President Donald Trump announced early Saturday that Zinke will resign at the end of the year. Zinkes final day as agency chief will be Jan. 2 The Associated Press reported Saturday citing his resignation letter. Thats one day before Democrats take control of the House of Representatives. In recent weeks some Democratic lawmakers made clear that they intended to investigate both Zinkes personal conduct and policy decisions. He has faced nearly 20 federal investigations one of which has been referred to the Justice Department for possible criminal violations. Rep. Gerry Connolly D Va. the vice ranking member of the House oversight committee told HuffPost last month that Zinke is definitely going to be a subject of great interest following a complete desert of oversight under the Republican watch. Since Trump took office Republicans on the House oversight committee have denied more than 60 subpoena requests from Democratic members including one related to Zinkes reassignment of career employees. And Rep. Raul Grijalva D Ariz. one of Zinkes fiercest critics in Washington and the incoming chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee told Outside Magazineand other outlets he was prepared to subpoena Zinke if necessary to obtain information. In his resignation letter to Trump Zinke wrote that vicious and politically motivated attacks against him had created an unfortunate distraction according to the AP. And in a statement posted to Twitter the ongoing agency chief said he cannot justify spending thousands of dollars defending myself and my family against false allegations. While it appears on the surface that Zinkes departure was a personal decision the AP and The New York Times reported Saturday that the White House forced him out over concerns about ongoing scandals mounting scrutiny and negative press. This is no kind of victory but Im hopeful that it is a genuine turning of the page Grijalva said in a statement. The next secretary should respect public desire for strong environmental standards and an end to corporate favoritism. There had been numerous signs that Zinke was possibly on his way out. Last month Trump told reporters that Zinke is doing an excellent job but that he would take a look at the allegations against him and soon make a decision about his future. Zinkes personal attack last month against the congressman soon to wield oversight power over him only added to the speculation. In recent interviews and public appearances Zinke seemed to be working to maintain his boss approval. He told Bloomberg that Trump is great to work for despite occasional calls at 2 a.m. and that if you do your job he supports you. And Zinke repeatedly touted the administrations effort to boost domestic fossil fuel production while continuing to ignore the scientific communitys dire warnings that we are running out of time to rein in greenhouse gas emissions and stave off catastrophic climate change. Im proud of the fact that were the No. 1 oil and gas producer in the world he said at a Dec. 11 briefing to announce a proposed rollback of Obama era clean water rules. Im proud of the fact that were going to get even better. Because when America prospers the world is safer. Stepping down now may spare Zinke some embarrassment but it will not reduce the need for oversight of the Administrations poor stewardship at Interior Rep. Don Beyer D Va. said in a statement. For all his feigned swagger Ryan Zinke lacked the courage or integrity to face accountability skipping town as soon as he faced scrutiny Evers said. Unfortunately for the American people Zinke leaves behind a deputy secretary with similar ethical concerns. It is high time for the glare of sunlight to focus on Deputy Secretary David Bernhardt. Well see if he has the spine to answer questions that Zinke lacked.	True	True	False	False	False
HAZARD Ky. The head of the Environmental Protection Agency said Monday that he will sign a new rule overriding the Clean Power Plan an Obama era effort to limit carbon emissions from coal fired power plants. The war on coal is over EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt declared in the coal mining state of Kentucky. For Pruitt getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma. Pruitt was among about two dozen attorney generals who sued to stop President Barack Obamas push to limit carbon emissions. Closely tied to the oil and gas industry in his home state Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man man emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change. President Donald Trump who appointed Pruitt and shares his skepticism of established climate science promised to kill the Clean Power Plan during the 2016 campaign as part of his broader pledge to revive the nations struggling coal mines. In his order Tuesday Pruitt is expected to declare that the Obama era rule exceeded federal law by setting emissions standards that power plants could not reasonably meet. Appearing at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Pruitt said The EPA and no federal agency should ever use its authority to say to you we are going to declare war on any sector of our economy. Obamas plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. The rule dictated specific emission targets for states based on power plant emissions and gave officials broad latitude to decide how to achieve reductions. The Supreme Court put the plan on hold last year following legal challenges by industry and coal friendly states. Even so the plan helped drive a recent wave of retirements of coal fired plants which also are being squeezed by lower costs for natural gas and renewable power as well as state mandates promoting energy conservation. The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obamas legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants. The president announced earlier this year that he will pull the United States out of the landmark Paris climate agreement. Nearly 200 countries have committed to combat global warming by reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming. Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker contributed to this report from Washington.	True	False	False	True	True
And on Monday 19 buses carrying more than 1500 activists from across the state converged on the state capital to protest Cuomos failure to do more about climate change in his eight years in office and make demands that looked identical to Nixons platform.It was the largest environmental protest against Cuomo since anti fracking activists staged demonstrations in 2014. To some Cuomos status as a climate pariah may be surprising. In 2014 he put a moratorium on hydraulic fracturing or fracking for natural gas in the state. In 2015 Al Gore joined the governor as he announced plans to cut the states greenhouse gases emissions 40 percent by 2030. Last June Cuomo loudly rejected President Donald Trumps move to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate accord ramping up New Yorks pledge to produce half its electricity from renewables by 2030 and forging a new alliance with the governors of Washington and California to stick to the goals agreed to by former President Barack Obama. Climate change is a reality and not to address it is gross negligence by government said Cuomo according to a new page on the state website with the banner Environment Leadership. But Cuomos policies still fail to meet even the baseline targets scientists say are needed to make a difference on global warming. His reduction targets focus exclusively on power plants ignoring the majority of the states emissions that come from buildings and vehicles. He has no plan to get the state to 100 percent renewable electricity and has offered little to protect low income communities and neighborhoods of color that suffer most from the impacts of climate change. The states pension funds remain invested in fossil fuels and polluters face no penalties in the form of fines on climate linked damage or taxes on emissions. As Nixon gains in the polls and lands magazine covers Cuomo is scrambling to act on long neglected progressive demands. Three weeks ago over coffee and cookies at a Manhattan steakhousethe governor made a deal to disband the Independent Democratic Conference known as the IDC. The group of eight breakaway Democrats in the state Senate caucused with Republicans guaranteeing a conservative majority in the chamber now only one holdout Brooklyn Democrat Simcha Felder has left Republicans with a flimsy one vote majority. Cuomo also signed an executive order last week restoring voting rights to felons on parole and voiced support for legalizing recreational marijuana a policy Nixon made a platform issue in her campaign. On Friday almost simultaneous to the release of Nixons climate platform Cuomo denied a water quality permit to a new natural gas pipeline environmentalists have protested for months and announced a new energy efficiency initiative that would account for one third of the emissions cuts required to meet his 2030 target. But Cuomos next big test on climate change is one he has already failed twice. For the third time in as many years the state assembly is slated to vote this week on the latest version of the New York State Climate and Community Protection Act known as the CCPA. The bill is widely considered the most ambitious and egalitarian climate legislation introduced anywhere in the nation. Heather McGhee president of the left leaning think tank Demos and the economist Robert Reich called it the most progressive climate equity policy weve seen. The legislation first introduced in 2016 calls for 100 percent renewable energy statewide by 2050 and orders state agencies to draft plans to cut greenhouse gas emissions from power plants buildings and vehicles. It requires 40 percent of state energy funding to go to the low income neighborhoods and communities of color most vulnerable to sea level rise and extreme weather and includes wage standards backed by labor unions for all state funded green energy projects. If enacted the bills proponents say it would create more than 100000 jobs. For Assemblyman Steve Englebright the Long Island Democrat who first introduced the CCPA the bill is 20 years overdue. The 71 year old lawmaker from Setauket a coastal hamlet on Long Island Sound started warning about the threat of runaway global warming two decades ago. He has since sponsored several bills to support solar and wind production at least three of which became laws. In 2016 he became chairman of the Assembly Committee on Environmental Conservation and moved swiftly to draft and introduce the CCPA. There needs to be some adjustments made in the perception of how important this bill is to bring it into the executive chamber ready for the governors signatureEnglebright said Friday. If we can get it onto his desk hell have no choice but to sign it. New Yorkers overwhelmingly support environmental regulations even at an economic cost. Seventy one percent of New Yorkers support expanding renewable energy generation even if it raises electricity prices compared to 61 percent nationwide according to Cooperative Congressional Election Studys 2016 survey results analyzed for HuffPost by Data for Progress a left leaning think tank. That support cuts across demographics including 75 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 67 percent of people 65 years and older 73 percent of urban dwellers and 67 percent of rural New Yorkers and 74 percent of black people and 69 percent of whites. Sixty seven percent of New Yorkers support strengthening enforcement of clean air and water regulations even if it costs U.S. jobs compared to 58 percent nationwide. The support breaks down similarly across the state with 73 percent of people aged 18 to 29 and 61 percent of people 65 and older 71 percent of urbanites and 60 percent of rural people and 75 percent of black people and 64 percent of whites.	False	False	False	True	True
G7 energy ministers have failed to agree a statement on climate change this afternoonbecause of 'US reservations' it has emerged. Top officials from the Group of Seven industrial nations gathered in Rome Italy today amid growing concerns over the US administration's moves to unravel policies aimed at stalling global warming. Environmental activists fear US President Donald Trumpis dismantling Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan which aimed at reducing carbon pollution from power plants. Greenpeace was holding a sit in outside Monday's meeting calling on officials to maintain their commitments to reduce greenhouse gases under the 2015 Paris Agreement. However the US 'reserved its position' on the text about commitments made by G7 countries under the Paris accord said Carlo Calenda the Italian minister for economic development who chaired the meeting in Rome. The ministers' agenda had called for discussion of energy security policies to move away from coal natural gas routes and supply sustainable development of electricity sources alternative fuel scenarios and energy access and investments in Africa. Lacking unanimity Italy which currently presides the Group of Seven decided against proposing the joint statement Calenda said. The Paris Agreement endorsed by members of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC is a bedrock of international action against man made global warming. It vows to cap warming to 'well below' two degrees Celsius 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit compared to late 19th century levels an effort that scientists say will require massive cuts in carbon emissions from coal and other fossil fuels. It also pledges to provide hundreds of billions of dollars in aid for poor countries badly exposed to drought flood rising seas and other climate impacts. In March President Donald Trump signed an executive order rolling back some of the previous Democratic administration's policies on carbon emissions and climate change. Experts have said his plan which eases emissions limits for coal fired power plants and scraps more stringent vehicle pollution standards almost guarantees that the US will fail to meet its commitments under the Paris Agreement. Trump has also said he does not intend to honour promises made by the administration of his predecessor Barack Obama to provide financial aid under the Paris accord. However Trump's team is also deeply divided on whether to withdraw from the pact according to US media reports. On March 30 the White House said a decision on whether to withdraw would be made ahead of the G7 summit in Italy in late May. Under Obama the United States the second biggest carbon polluter provided critical impetus for the Paris deal by concluding a precursor deal with China the number one emitter. The Group of Seven gathering the biggest western democracies comprises Britain Canada France Germany Italy Japan and the United States.	True	False	False	True	False
The cruelty and the idiocy of Donald Trumps presidency does not chiefly lie in his tweets or even his words. Trump the performer is ridiculous but thats the clown show that keeps many of us either terrified or entertained the real harm is elsewhere away from the blaring headlines. Trump has been most destructive in his willingness to carry out an unabashedly rightwing policy agenda. Most Republicans competing for the nomination in 2016 embraced their partys total capitulation to the fossil fuel industry denying the existence of climate change and promising to shred Environmental Protection Agency EPA regulations. This is a central threat to Americas future a major powerful political party rejecting science itself. This week the Trump administration said it would weaken federal clean water rules epa proposes big changes to federal water protections designed to protect millions of acres of wetlands and thousands of miles of streams from pesticide runoff and other pollutants. This proposal would not just undo Obama era regulations but chip away at protections instituted under the late George HW Bush perhaps the last major Republican to pay even lip service to the environment. The Obama era rule was designed to limit pollution in about 60 of the nations bodies of water protecting sources of drinking water for about a third of the United States. Federal authority was extended to limit pollution in large bodies of waters and smaller bodies that drain into them like streams and wetlands. Rural landowners complained about the government regulating how much pollution from chemical fertilizers and pesticides could seep into water on their property. Real estate developers and owners of golf courses attacked the water regulations too and cheered the news that Trump a fan of both real estate development and golf was delivering on a campaign promise. The protection of our water they figure shouldnt interfere with business. Not only will it soon be easier for pollution to seep into our waterways if a developer finds a wetland is in the way of a money making opportunity the habitat can be paved over altogether. Wetlands adjacent to a major body of water will warrant federal protection. The rest are fair game. Environmentalists are rightfully horrified and fearful of whats to come. Its not just clean drinking water the Trump White House has disregarded. Proposals have circulated to weaken regulations on planet warming emissions from power plants oil rigs and cars. Trump is trying to speed new drilling at the Arctic national wildlife refuge. As climate change accelerates and the planet hurdles ever closer to an existential crisis Trump went to a United Nations conference to tout the benefits katowice climate talks cop24.html of fossil fuels. The current administrator of the EPA Andrew Wheeler used to spend his time lobbying against environmental regulations on behalf of coal magnate Robert E Murray. He was chief counsel to Senator James Inhofe of Oklahoma a proud denier of climate change. Democrats hoping Trump is impeached indicted or somehow toppled before 2020 should understand even such farfetched scenarios wont change the status quo. Trump has surrounded himself with people who care far more about the sanctity of fossil fuel profits than the safety of the American people. They worship at the altar of nihilistic capitalism. Mike Pence wont save you. For 2020 and beyond climate justice will have to become the most animating issue for Democrats not because its a winning argument though it is but because the future of the planet depends on it. This is why Alexandria Ocasio Cortez occupied ocasio cortez sunrise activists nancy pelosi Nancy Pelosis office to force support for a Green New Deal. We are left with no other alternatives. The job of the next president will be to undo the damage Trump has wrought. There will be much handwringing about the shattering of democratic norms but the real work will be in doing whatever we can in the little time we have to avert a true climate catastrophe. 	False	False	False	False	False
As California wildfires claimed their seventh victimDonald Trumpfinally weighed in on the tragedy with one of his most confounding tweets ever blaming California for the blazes because it diverts water to the Pacific Ocean. He also blamed the states bad environmental laws the most protective in the nation and trees. He called for a tree clear to stop fire spreading. He failed to express condolences to the families of the victims thank firefighters or offer comfort to Californians afraid for their lives homes and communities. California wildfires are being magnified made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which arent allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized. It is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire spreading! Donald J. Trump August 5 2018 The tweet came just days after the Trump administration moved to scrap tough vehicle emissions standards initially established by California. The move would clear the way for vehicles to pump an additional 600 million metric tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere by 2030. Thats the equivalent of the entire annual emissions of Canada. Its unclear what the president meant by water diverted into the Pacific. California allocates water among residents agricultural and industrial useand for wetlands and wildlife including water mandated to protect endangered species. But state waters eventually drain into the ocean.As one tweeter responded Water running into the Pacific Ocean is called a river. And firefighters havent complained of a lack of water for battling the blazes. The tweet could be a muddled indication of support for a GOP battle in Washington for a larger water allocation to farmers many of them Republican voters in the drought stricken states central valley. But its unclear how that would help staunch California fires. The scientific consensus is that fires are becoming more common because of climate change which Trump once called a Chinese hoax. Twitter users were stunned the president failed to express concern about people suffering in the fires. But most readers were stumped or derisive. One responded Thanks genius. Problem solved. As a professor who specializes in wildfire management there are a lot of things that are broken about how we prepare for fight wildfires... but its near impossible to overstate how ridiculous this comment is. Eric Kennedy August 5 2018 I had to come look if this was a real tweet. Ummmmm....gee..... You seem to know next to nothing about California. Fires are more often fought with flame retardant. Mowing down a forest to keep the forest from burning is on the crazy side. bree brinkenstein August 6 2018 Thank you for your heartfelt words of concern and support for the families who have lost everything. Primrose Lane August 6 2018 No you scientists have been seeing the fingerprints of all over these fires and it's making them far worse. Why don't you offer your condolences and then maybe read something aside from the McDonalds menu Miroslava Korenha August 6 2018 By tree clear I'm sure you're talking about logging. You're not interested in fire safety. All you want to do is destroy nature and make corporations richer. Audrey August 6 2018 How about a shout out to the 15000 Firefighters who are putting their lives on the line backed with a commitment of support? That is what a real President would do. Big Ass Mustache August 6 2018 JUST IN The President of the United States blames environmental protection laws for California wildfires and believes that useful fresh water is being diverted to the Pacific Ocean. It remains unclear if he also believes that the Earth is flat and the sun revolves around it. Trump Thoughts August 5 2018 So...you want to stop trees from catching on fire...by removing the trees...? But I thought you believed so strongly in the environment. You said so! Andrew August 6 2018 I fixed your tweet boo. Dont worry. I always got your back. My hart goes out to all those infected by the kalifornia wildfires. Im working alongside my addministration to formulate a plan of action to swiftly dayliver aids and support to all the suffered comuntitties. Joe Bereta of The Valleyfolk August 5 2018 So how do you explain the fires in Wyoming Idaho Nevada Arizona Texas and Montana? Those states aren't exactly models of environmental regulation and yet they are burning also. Eric Foltz August 6 2018 What are you going to do with the massive amount of water that doesnt exist in California? Your destructive environmental policy is what causes climate change. Stop rolling back fuel auto standards. Fix the EPA dont dismantle it. Be the solution not the problem. Right! Zardoz commands that Trump should be impeached! August 6 2018	False	False	False	True	False
After months of waging a public and at times bloody battle with protesters bivouacked outside its construction site in North Dakota law enforcement officers razed the encampment and arrested the holdouts. Meanwhile roughly 1700 miles east the company completed the final edits requested by regulators to its application to start building the Rover natural gas pipeline a 4.2 billion project through Ohio. That project had sailed through the permitting process and these markups would be its last. Project manager Buffy Thomason wanted to extend thanks to the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency so she emailed the firms lobbyist in the state Art Arnold that evening. Arnold forwarded the message to Laura Factor the agencys assistant director less than an hour later. In the same email Arnold called the OEPA staff among if not the most honest and helpful people Ive encountered. OEPA Director Craig Butler described Arnold and Factor as good friends in a separate exchange with an agency colleague. Theyve done their jobs without beating us up in the process Arnold added. Theyve offered options when we were stuck. Theyve pointed us in the right direction so we could build the pipeline and stay within their good graces. But just a few months after those emails were sent Energy Transfer Partners and the state officials became embroiled in a vicious public fight over a massive drilling fluid spill and construction pollution. The company has flagrantly challenged the OEPAs authority infuriating the agency and eliciting a rare public investigation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or FERC the federal agency that regulates interstate electricity and natural gas operations. The dispute offers a cautionary tale in what one critic described as regulatory capture of a state agency by a company with deep ties to the Trump administration and a reputation as an environmental pariah unafraid to deploy scorched earth tactics against its opponents. The moves by Energy Transfer Partners further fuel fears of whats to come amid proposed steep cuts to the EPAs budget and a brazen campaign by U.S. Administrator Scott Pruitt to cozy up to fossil fuel interests. Energy Transfer Partners problems in Ohio began shortly after construction began on Rover in March. Heavy rains poured as workers built a stretch of the pipeline over flat farmlands and workers began dumping excess sediment laden water onto fields and into streams according to citations from the OEPA. Then in April the company accidentally leaked onto Ohio wetlands more than 2 million gallons of fluid used to lubricate the machines that bore pathways for underground pipes through a process known as horizontal directional drilling. The spill suffocated anything that lived in an area the size of nearly nine football fields under a foot or more of a slurry of nontoxic bentonite clay and water the agency said. On May 5 the OEPA ordered the company to submit a plan to address future spills restore the wetlands and apply for stormwater permitting. It also fined the firm 431000. In a sharp break from the charm it applied during the application process Energy Transfer Partners rejected the agencys demands insisting that because the pipeline crossed state boundaries the OEPA lacked the authority to make those orders. This kind of pushback were getting from Rover that says You have absolutely no state authority this is all a FERC issue and the tenor and tone theyve taken to interact with us doesnt happen often Butler said. This very negative response that weve gotten from Rover up until now and very recently is pretty uncharacteristic. On May 10 FERC stepped in to back up the state EPA halting construction at eight sites where Energy Transfer Partners had yet to begin boring the pipe. FERCs order has given environmental groups like the Sierra Club temporary reprieve from their own legal effort to block a pipeline they see as fueling climate change and endangering the environment in the state one of the proposed construction sites includes the Captina Creek the only cold water stream in Ohio with the right conditions for the endangered hellbender salamander to breed. But FERC allowed Energy Transfer Partners to continue work at the 22 other locations including the site of the largest spill. The company sent teams to vacuum up the drilling sludge from the wetlands and deposit it in two nearby quarries. Things took another turn on May 26 when the OEPA discovered traces of diesel in the samples collected from the spill site. Using diesel in the drilling fluids violated the permit FERC had granted forcing regulators to reclassify the site as an industrial accident. On June 1 FERC opened an investigation into the incident. On July 7 the OEPA once again sent a letter listing demands to Energy Transfer Partners. The letter reiterated orders made about two months earlier to apply for stormwater permits pay mounting fines nearing 1 million and submit a plan to restore the wetlands. The agency also directed the company to excavate the diesel contaminated slurry from the quarries dispose of it at solid waste landfills and install groundwater monitoring around the area to ensure that private wells werent affected. The company agreed only after FERC backed up the OEPA on the demands five days later. The OEPA said it will review Energy Transfer Partners submissions by next week to determine if its plans are in compliance. The OEPA said it remains committed to supporting oil and gas development in the state. StillButler the agencys director said Energy Transfer Partners received no preferential treatment during the application process despite what seemed like an amicable relationship at the start of the construction process. At the highest level this does not diminish our overall posture in terms of trying to support oil and gas development in the state including the development of pipeline networks he said. Weve got several of these large pipelines. Our only concern is while were supporting they at least have to follow the rules.	False	False	False	True	True
Washington Democratic Gov. Jay Inslee invoked former British Prime Minister Winston Churchill in announcing a legislation aimed at fighting global warming. There is no other option than victory because without victory there is not survival Inslee said at a press conference Monday. If that sounds apocalyptic then look at the science. Churchill gave similar remarks before British Parliament in May 1940 in the early days of World War II. Inslee and his allies cited the recent National Climate Assessment to back equating future global warming to Nazi Germany sweeping across Europe. Inslee who is a 2020 presidential contender is styling himself as a leader for Democrats agitating for action on global warming. Inslee is considering making global warming a central theme of his campaign should he seek the Democratic nomination in 2020. Inslees legislative pitch comes weeks after Washington voters rejected a ballot initiative to tax carbon dioxide emissions. The Inslee backed measure was defeated in an overwhelmingly Democratic state in November. Now Inslees back with an even more urgent message Adopt policies to tackle global warming or there is not survival. RELATED Congress Debates Whether More Tax Dollars Will Go Towards Add Ons For Luxury Electric Cars Inslees legislative proposal would force utilities to use 100 percent clean energy mandate more energy efficiency in buildings require a clean fuel standard and phase down hydrofluorocarbons HFCs in refrigerators and air conditioners. Those policies would cut Washington state greenhouse gases 25 percent below 1990 levels by 2035 according to Inslee. Washingtonians are ready to see their elected leaders step up to prevent further harm to our forests our air and our communities. These are enormous steps forward in our effort to save our state and our planet Inslee said. Washington already gets most of its electricity from clean energy being the largest state producer of hydroelectricity. The state also has existing laws mandating 15 percent of its electricity come from renewables like wind and solar. However Inslees critics point out that state green policies have raised energy prices including in Seattle where electricity prices have doubled since 2013. Costs have nearly doubled since 2013 Todd Myers environmental director at the Washington Policy Center tweeted Monday. Inslee also neglected to mention the most important aspect of climate policies their projected impact on future global warming. Thats probably because anything Washington state does will have no measurable impact on projected climate change. The governor also used alarming rhetoric when announcing carbon tax legislation earlier this year. We have just 59 days to do our part to save our children from an endless cycle of crop killing droughts one year and rivers spilling their banks the next Inslee tweeted in January. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	True	False
President Trump followed through on his campaign promise to withdraw from the Paris climate accord by formally announcing the U.S. intention to pull out of the agreement saying the move would help American workers and the economy. The Paris climate accord is simply the latest example of Washington entering an agreement that disadvantages the U.S. leaving American workers who I love and tax payers to absorb the cost in terms of lost jobs and lower wages and vastly diminished economic reduction Mr. Trump said. Following Mr. Trump's announcement reaction from both supporters applauding Mr. Trump's move as well as those who disagree with the pull out was swift across the political spectrum. The nations that remain in the Paris Agreement will be the nations that reap the benefits in jobs and industries created. I believe the United States of America should be at the front of the pack. But even in the absence of American leadership even as this Administration joins a small handful of nations that reject the future I'm confident that our states cities and businesses will step up and do even more to lead the way and help protect for future generations the one planet we've got. Removing the United States from the Paris Agreement is a reckless and indefensible action. It undermines America's standing in the world and threatens to damage humanity's ability to solve the climate crisis in time. But make no mistake if President Trump won't lead the American people will. President Trump's decision is profoundly in conflict with what the majority of Americans want from our president but no matter what he does we will ensure that our inevitable transition to a clean energy economy continues. The Paris climate agreement was simply a raw deal for America. Signed by President Obama without Senate ratification it would have driven up the cost of energy hitting middle class and low income Americans the hardest. In order to unleash the power of the American economy our government must encourage production of American energy. I commend President Trump for fulfilling his commitment to the American people and withdrawing from this bad deal. I applaud President Trump and his administration for dealing yet another significant blow to the Obama Administration's assault on domestic energy production and jobs. President Obama made commitments in this deal based off a costly power plan that we knew at the time was on shaky legal ground. By withdrawing from this unattainable mandate President Trump has reiterated his commitment to protecting middle class families across the country and workers throughout coal country from higher energy prices and potential job loss. President Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement is a devastating failure of historic proportions. Future generations will look back on President Trump's decision as one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st century because of the huge damage to our economy our environment and our geopolitical standing. Pulling out of the Paris agreement doesn't put America first it puts America last in recognizing science in being a world leader and protecting our own shore line our economy and our planet. It's now crystal clear President Trump is comfortable both ceding the moral high ground and the economic upper hand to countries like China and endangering the future of our planet. By walking away from this pact President Trump is abandoning America's leadership position in the fight against the climate crisis and is sending a strong message to the rest of the world to create design and manufacture clean energy solutions and create jobs elsewhere. If President Trump wants nations like China and India to take stronger and swifter action on climate then he should do so through the accountability and enforcement provisions in the Paris Agreement not by breaking our word and storming out of the room. Today the President announced that the United States will no longer be bound by an agreement unilaterally entered into by the Obama Administration. This was neither submitted to nor ratified by the U.S. Senate and is not in the best long term economic interest of the United States. President Trump's decision will prove to be the right course of action and one I fully support. Withdrawing the U.S. from the Paris climate agreement isn't just a setback it's irresponsible. This damages our nation's reputation as an international leader and puts future generations at risk to the threat of climate change. Boston will not standby given what's at stake. As Mayor I will continue to work with U.S. Mayors and cities around the world to uphold the tenets of the Paris climate agreement and protect Boston against the very real impacts of climate change. As a Governor I always worked to balance economic growth and environmental protection. We can and we must do both. President Trump acted in America's best interest moving away from a flawed agreement that placed too heavy a burden on American jobs and opening the door to a new agreement that reaches the right balance. America will remain a leader in environmental protection. But we will not jeopardize our economy in order to please other counties that don't come anywhere near our environmental standards. The decision by the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on climate change is a major disappointment for global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote global security. The Secretary General remains confident that cities states and businesses within the United States along with other countries will continue to demonstrate vision and leadership by working for the low carbon resilient economic growth that will create quality jobs and markets for 21st century prosperity. It is crucial that the United States remains a leader on environmental issues.	False	False	False	True	True
Environmentalists lamenting that a green wave didnt wash over Congress can find a glimmer of hope in the results of several key governor races. As of Wednesday it looks like Democrats committed to fighting climate change gained several key governorships that could accelerate local and national progress in clean energy. Democrat Stephen Sisolak won in Nevada Democrat Janet Mills won in Maine and Democrat Michelle Lujan Grisham won in New Mexico. In the past two years these states all passed renewable energy bills through their legislatures that were vetoed by Republican governors. But with these Democrats now heading into the governors mansions its very likely that these states will take another run at clean energy legislation. Sisolak for example campaigned on his support Question 6 one of the few state clean energy ballot initiatives that passed on Tuesday. This is a ballot measure that commits Nevada to getting 50 percent of its energy from renewable sources by 2030. In fact as governor I would like to get us on the road to 100 percent Sisolak said in a campaign ad. Meanwhile Millss platform included cutting Maines greenhouse gas emissions 80 percent by 2030. And Grisham advocated new rules to regulate methane a potent greenhouse gas and has a long voting record in the House as a representative of New Mexico in favor of bills to address climate change. Democrats flipped executive offices in other states as well. Democrat Tony Evers Wisconsins governor elect defeated incumbent Scott Walker on a platform that included a pledge to join 17 other governors committed to the goals of the Paris climate agreement. These wins are critical because governors have executive authority that allows them to dictate some state energy priorities. They also play a huge role in how federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act are enforced. We saw this play out in North Carolina after the last election. The state passed a law in 2012 preventing the government from even considering the latest climate change science in its planning. Then Democrat Roy Cooper was elected and pulled an aggressive U turn going as far as to sign an executive order committing the state to cutting its greenhouse gas emissions 40 percent below 2005 levels by 2025. In 38 states governors also appoint utility commissioners who shape investment in energy infrastructure and can help decide whether to keep an aging coal plant online or to rapidly deploy renewables. That gives states like Nevada another lever to drive climate policies. Legislatures in several states Maine Colorado New Hampshire Connecticut New York Minnesota also saw at least one chamber flip in favor of Democrats. In 13 states Democrats now control the governorship along with upper and lower legislative chambers. This would allow them to pass aggressive renewable portfolio standards and greenhouse gas targets. But other governors races did not go as well one high profile candidate who made climate change a key part of his platforms Democratic Florida gubernatorial contender Andrew Gillum lost. As for national level candidates several House members who deny climate change like California Republican Devin Nunes held on to their seats. And Carlos Curbelo a House Republican who proposed a carbon tax was outflanked by his Democratic opponent Debbie Mucarsel Powell. Curbelo also chaired the House Climate Solutions Caucus. The 90 member group counted 45 Republicans as members but just 24 of them will return in January. Since the caucus hadnt come up with many concrete solutions yet its unclear what it will do going forward. Several state clean energy and environmental ballot initiatives were also thwarted at the polls. Measures like Colorados anti fracking Proposition 112 and Washington states Initiative 1631 to price carbon emissions were defeated in part due to a firehose of money being unleashed by fossil fuel interests. What that means is that the bulk of climate change and energy advances were going to see in the United States over the next two years will come up through state legislatures and governors offices. But dont expect too much from a divided Congress and a president who is lackadaisical about whether climate change is even a problem.	True	False	False	True	True
The death toll in cyclone hit northern Mozambique has risen to 38 officials say as aid workers struggle to reach the worst affected areas. Cyclone Kenneth struck the southern African nation last week with winds of 220kmh 140mph flattening villages and damaging thousands more homes. The storm lost strength but torrential rain was still battering the area on Monday with more expected. As a result flights have been grounded hindering the aid effort. It is predicted the weather system will dump twice as much rainfall as Cyclone Idai which struck last month leaving more than 900 dead across Mozambique Malawi and Zimbabwe. The flood risk was compounded by Kenneth hitting at the end of the rainy season when river levels were already high the UN Office for the Co ordination of Humanitarian Affairs Ocha noted. Already Pemba the regional capital of Cabo Delgado state has experienced more than 2m 6.5ft of rain and flooding. According to Mozambique's National Institute of Disaster Management INGC 38 people have been killed by Cyclone Kenneth while another 35000 homes have been destroyed or damaged. The privately owned O Pais website reported five people died after part of a rubbish dump collapsed onto homes in Pemba on Sunday evening. It is unclear if these deaths are recorded in the government total. Ocha says humanitarian needs have sky rocketed and the humanitarian response will need to rapidly scale up. Some 200000 people are in danger in Pemba alone Ocha warned. Spokesman Saviano Abreu added that the situation in the northern towns of Macomia and Quissanga was critical while there were also worries for the cut off island of Ibo. But attempts to reach those areas had not been entirely successful. We managed to send one flight with World Food Programme WFP supplies of rice and biscuits and some non food items Mr Abreu told news agency AFP. But unfortunately the weather conditions are changing too fast and threatening the operation. It's raining again and the second flight couldn't go. This satellite image shows the cyclone over northern Mozambique and Tanzania on Friday night. On Sunday a spokesman for UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said he was appealing for additional resources from the international community to fund the response in the immediate medium and longer term. Tropical cyclones in this part of the Indian Ocean are not that rare. However according to the BBC's Environment Correspondent Matt McGrath Cyclone Idai was the seventh such major storm of the Indian Ocean season when it struck back in March. That is more than double the average for the time of year. What's even more unusual however is the fact Idai and Kenneth hit in such quick succession. According to the World Meteorological Organization WMO there is no record of two storms of such intensity striking Mozambique in the same season. It is especially unusual in the context of the trend which has seen tropical cyclones in the region decrease slightly over the past seven decades. But it is far too early and too small a sample size to say whether this frequency is a direct result of climate change. Instead experts point to other elements making the storm's impact worse which they know are related to climate change. There is absolutely no doubt that when there is a tropical cyclone like this then because of climate change the rainfall intensities are higher Dr Friederike Otto from the University of Oxford told the BBC in the aftermath of Cyclone Idai. And also because of sea level rise the resulting flooding is more intense than it would be without human induced climate change. Cabo Delgado province is not as densely populated as the area hit by Cyclone Idai and there is apparently more high ground there. That in addition to warnings by authorities ahead of the storm could significantly stem losses compared with Cyclone Idai. But reports said many thousands of homes had been flattened by the winds and the area has been hit by militant Islamist violence in recent months which could complicate humanitarian operations. Thousands of people had already fled their homes to seek shelter from violence in camps for displaced people.	False	False	False	True	False
The proposal also says companies that emit greenhouse gases should be protected from lawsuits over their contribution to climate change. Michael B. Gerrard the director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia Law School and an expert on climate litigation said there had been four suits brought against energy companies over climate change including one brought by the eroding Arctic coastal town of Kivalina Alaska. None of those has gotten very far Mr. Gerrard said but there continues to be talk of more. Mr. Gerrard added If a sufficiently high carbon tax were imposed it could accomplish a lot more for fighting climate change than liability suits. The Climate Leadership Councils plan sets an initial tax of 40 per ton of carbon dioxide produced which would add 36 cents to the cost of each gallon of gasoline sold. The group estimates the tax would raise more than 200 billion a year and the rate would rise over time dampening demand for fossil fuels. The average family of four would receive approximately 2000 in the first year as a carbon dividend the group says. A tax and dividend plan would cut American carbon pollution even as the Trump administration withdraws from the Paris climate accord the group says. Exxon has said for years that it supports a carbon tax at least in the abstract but the company had never formally endorsed a proposal. In 2009 the companys chief executive Rex W. Tillerson who is now secretary of state called carbon taxes a more direct a more transparent and a more effective approach than a cap and trade proposal Congress was considering at the time. In a statement the current chief executive of Exxon Mobil Darren W. Woods said the company was encouraged by the climate groups proposal which aligns closely with our longstanding principles. A company spokesman said the liability component of the plan was not part of the companys decision to endorse it. Some environmental groups did not accept that explanation on Tuesday. Exxon is signing on to this carbon tax proposal because they know its dead on arrival in Congress said Jamie Henn a co founder of 350.org. He added that protection from liability would be important to Exxon which is under investigation for its past statements and actions on climate change. Along with the oil companies the plans corporate backers include Johnson Johnson Unilever PepsiCo and Procter Gamble. Ted Halstead the chief executive of the Climate Leadership Council said the group did not accept corporate contributions. Some environmental organizations including the Nature Conservancy and the World Resources Institute are endorsing the plan. Individual supporters include the theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking Steven Chu a secretary of energy under President Barack Obama Michael R. Bloomberg the former New York mayor and the Indian industrialist Ratan Tata. The plans Republican authors include James A. Baker III and George P. Shultz both former secretaries of state and Henry M. Paulson Jr. a former secretary of the Treasury. But Mr. Halstead said the council had moved a little more to the center adding new leaders like Lawrence H. Summers a secretary of the Treasury under President Bill Clinton and Laurene Powell Jobs a philanthropist and the widow of the Apple founder Steve Jobs. For this to pass it will have to pass on a bipartisan basis Mr. Halstead said. Mr. Summers said the chances that Congress would pass a carbon tax in the near future were low. But he said there is a reasonable shot that there will be an opening that will be taken in the next several years especially because the dividends could benefit low income Americans. Its hard to argue against a fuel tax that Exxons in favor of he said.	True	False	False	True	True
Some of the regular Americans who are paying the price for Scott Pruitts leadership were in Washington DC this week and I had the honor of spending the day with them and hearing their stories. As we all know Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt headed to Capitol Hill Thursday where he was grilled by members of Congress on his many ethical scandals that have been making headlines for weeks. Just two days earlier people from across the US came to Washington to testify at EPAs lone public hearing on Pruitts proposed rollbacks of protections from toxic coal ash. Their stories of coal ash contamination were heartbreaking a North Carolina town where neighbors keep getting sick a community on the Navajo Nation where people drive 15 miles to haul water for livestock. The EPA had finally put very modest coal ash safeguards in place for these communities in 2015 and now Scott Pruitt is trying to take them away. As I told EPA in my testimony Families are looking to EPA to solve the coal ash problem not abandon them. If you dont defend these standards the Sierra Club and our allies will. One small town Alabama mayor summed up the thoughts of everyone in the room when he faced EPA representatives a simply said What are you doing? Have you lost your mind? Pruitts maneuver to weaken coal ash standards has sparked grassroots outrage from red states and blue states. He is handing out yet another favor to the corporate polluters whove been and marching orders since he took over the EPA. Pruitt is weakening the protections so that millionaire utility executives dont have to pay for affordable common sense fixes to Americas mounting coal ash problem. As I heard from scientists and the many families affected who spoke at the hearing earlier this week coal ash is the primary solid waste product of coal fired power plants and it contains some of the most dangerous toxic chemicals on earth like arsenic lead mercury and chromium. The toxins raise the risk for cancer heart disease and stroke and can inflict permanent brain damage on children. Its estimated that 1.5 million children live near the coal ash storage sites which are only getting larger with each ton of coal burned. In places like and on the weve seen the tragedies that coal ash spills and leaks can cause by devastating communities contaminating water and sending people to the hospital. In 2015 after years of scientific research and public comments the EPA finalized a set of basic clean water protections from coal ash that were cheap and easy for utilities to implement. These standards required coal plant owners to do things like line new coal ash dump sites with strong waterproof materials to make sure the dangerous contents of coal ash did not leach into soil and contaminate groundwater. They also provided local communities with online tools to monitor their groundwater to make sure that toxic heavy metals from nearby coal ash waste sites were not contaminating the water they used for farming drinking and cooking. In a cruel irony Pruitt announced these rollbacks the day after EPA reporting under the new standard revealed dangerous coal ash pollution in more than 70 sites around the country. Everyone deserves clean water free from toxic coal ash and the profits of utility executives should never be held in higher regard than the health of local communities.. After nearly a year in his position Pruitt has seemed more concerned with pushing the agenda of wealthy coal executives rather than doing his job to protect the environment and the health of the people who are suffering from the pollution created by coal plants. Nothing better illustrates this than the sweetheart deal Pruitt received from the wife of a dirty energy lobbyist who had business before the EPA . For a mere 50 a night he stayed in a plush multi million dollar condo near the United States Capitol. By day Pruitt was touting his rollback efforts to make it easier for energy companies and utilities to save money by polluting and by night he slept peacefully in a bed owned by someone who energy companies and utilities hire to do their bidding on Capitol Hill. As each day goes by and we find out more about Pruitts conflicts of interests and revelations about his failed judgement however its important to remember that his failures have real world impacts on the health of the people he is supposed to be protecting. Real families will be hurt because of his decision to roll back the clean water protections against coal ash people who cant offer him sweetheart deals on luxury housing. TAKE ACTION Stop the repeal of coal ash safeguards!	False	False	False	False	True
Conservation groups are protesting efforts to build a small offshore wind farm off the coast of Lake Erie arguing that the project poses a grave risk to the local bird population. A local energy company wants to construct a six turbine 20.7 megawatt offshore wind development eight miles from Cleveland in Lake Erie. If completed it would be the first freshwater offshore wind farm on the continent. Supporters point outthe project would create more than 500 jobs and pump millions into the local economy over the turbines 25 year lifespan. Lake Erie Energy Development Corporation the company behind the project also argues it would be a step forward for environmentally friendly energy production. However not every ecologically minded group is on board with Icebreaker the name of the project. The Black Swamp Bird Observatory and the American Bird Conservancy two different bird conservation groups are opposed to the proposal claiming the turbines would harm the local bird population and that major errors were made during an environmental assessment. RELATEDDisposal Of Wind Turbines Proving To Be A Major Environmental Concern We reject the environmental assessments claim that this wind energy facility would have little to no impact' on birds Kimberly Kaufman Black Swamp Bird Observatorys executive director said in a statement. The six turbine Icebreaker project poses a larger threat to wildlife than is now indicated in the documents Kaufman continued. But the planned expansion of offshore wind energy to over 1000 turbines will have even more major impacts to birds that breed and migrate across Lake Erie and that must be addressed. The bird conservancy groups point out that vast numbers of migratory birds and bats have been recorded just a few miles from the Great Lakes shorelines with many flying at the same level of the rotor swept area of windmills. They submitted their concerns to theU.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of Energy. A second public hearing about Icebreaker will take place Thursday atCleveland City Council. This is far from the first time bird advocates have lamented over wind turbines. Wind farms across the globe kill thousands of birds a year that inadvertently fly into their turbines. Offshore wind farms while also posing a threat to birds can also harm the local aquatic ecosystem. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	True	True
The attorneys representing young people who are suing the federal government in a major climate change lawsuit recently took the unusual step of filing an injunction to stop all new leases for fossil fuel production. If the injunction is granted it would lead to a nationwide moratorium on new fossil fuel permitting and leasing on federal lands and waters until the lawsuit is resolved. No small matter. However existing mining and drilling projects would still proceed. The Juliana v. United States lawsuit filed by 21 young plaintiffs is currently going through pre trial appeals at the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The suit alleges that not only did the federal government fail to act to limit climate change it profited off of selling coal oil and gas rights. The government encouraged mining and drilling while knowing full well the hazards caused by burning these fuels namely climate change. In so doing the government has deprived the plaintiffs the youngest is 11 years old the right to a safe and stable climate system. The lawsuit was first filed in 2015 but has proceeded in starts and stops. At one point the Supreme Court stepped in to pause the case days before the trial before allowing it to go ahead. An appeals court has now stepped in to consider the governments motion to dismiss the case. Then on February 7 the plaintiffs filed their injunction against new fossil fuel extraction on government territory. Philip Gregory one of the lead attorneys representing the children filing suit explained that the injunction request is meant to address the urgency of limiting climate change by reducing emissions from fossil fuels immediately. With the case currently tied up in appeals the plaintiffs wanted to make sure the current state of affairs with respect to climate change doesnt get worse as the wheels of justice slowly turn. We would have preferred to go to trial submit our extensive evidence and have the judge require the defendants to come up with a plan a national climate recovery plan for how theyre going to go about doing this Gregory said. As Gregory and the other attorneys for the children wrote in their injunction request This injunction is urgently needed because despite long standing knowledge of the resulting destruction to our Nation and the profound harm to these young Plaintiffs Defendants ongoing development of the fossil fuel based energy system is actively harming Plaintiffs and jeopardizing Plaintiffs ability to obtain the full remedy in their case. Numerous experts including retired Navy Vice Admiral Lee Gunn economist Joseph Stiglitz and climate scientist Eric Rignot have also filed amicus briefs supporting the injunction against new federal fossil fuel development. In response the federal government argued this week that the injunction maneuver is a ploy to bypass proper legal proceedings. Indeed Plaintiffs by their present motion are essentially making a bid in this Court for a substitute mini trial or trial lite which is premature until the pure issues of law now being briefed in this interlocutory appeal are appropriately resolved as a threshold matter wrote attorneys for the US Department of Justice. They described the injunction request as an ambitious attempt to throttle important government functions superintending broad swaths of the national economy. The government also noted that the Juliana lawsuit was filed more than three years ago but the plaintiffs hadnt asked to block fossil fuel leasing until now which undermines the plaintiffs argument that without immediate action they would suffer irreparable harm. However Gregory noted that the government didnt object to any of the evidence presented in the plaintiffs injunction request nor did it present any new evidence for its request to deny the request. Because there is no contrary evidence then we are very optimistic that this injunction will go through Gregory said. The Juliana v. United States is just one of more than a dozen climate change lawsuits underway in the US right now. Besides suing the government several counties and cities are seeking damages from coal oil and gas companies for contributing to climate change which in turn is posing a public nuisance to these jurisdictions. Legal experts say that these lawsuits are long shots and theyre testing the limits of what existing jurisprudence covers. But if they succeed they could set critical precedents lead to billion dollar payouts and radically reshape the effort to limit global warming.	True	False	False	True	True
Over the course of seven hours the top ten Democratic candidates for president in 2020 committed to radical solutions to climate change a problem that assuming the worst case scenarios are true will result in our grandchildren being much richer than we are instead of muchmuch richer. Set aside for the moment the appalling wastefulness of devoting seven hours seven consecutive hours of prime time programming to the subject. Clearly CNN wanted to make a political statement about how important it thinks climate change ought to be in the election. Good. Given that the United States is the only country in the world that has reduced emissions over the past decade and a half while growing its economy and that the main reason is the growth of hydraulic fracturing fracking which Trump has supported and almost every Democratic candidate promises to ban the only choice is to vote for the Republicans. That is if youreally care about climate change. Otherwise youre just putting party before planet. That wasnt the point CNN wanted to make. Nor was it CNNs goal to expose the ignorance and extremism of the Democratic field. Yet that is exactly what happened. Given 40 minutes apiece the aspiring Democratic contenders showed that they are willing to de industrialize the U.S. economy put millions of people out of work and lower the standard of living for tens of millions more all for the sake of science they cannot explain and do not understand. It wasnt all the candidates fault. CNN kept making scientific claims that ranged from half truths to pure baloney. Again and again for instance moderators suggested that Hurricane Dorian was caused by climate change or a sign of things to come. It isnt. But give the network partial credit for noting that plans like the Green New Deal will hurt mining and agricultural communities. Some of the candidates barely seemed to care. 1. Taxing carbon pollution.Some called it a carbon fee others called it a carbon tax. Former U.S. Rep. Beto ORourke D TX was the only one offering a cap and trade system as an alternative. All believe that you should be paying more for fuel. None suggested making it revenue neutral say by lowering payroll taxes though South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg would redistribute the money to the poor. Learn from California thats not happening. 2. Banning fracking.With the possible exception of former vice president Joe Biden who agreed last month at the second debate that he would eliminate fracking and former HUD Secretary Julin Castro who would back bans at state and local levels all of the Democrats want to ban the one innovation that has made the greatest difference for our planet in the last twenty years powered the economic recovery and made us less dependent on the Mideast. 3. Ending oil and gas exploration and extraction on public lands. The Obama administration tried it too. Never mind that some public lands have been specifically set aside for oil and gas development. There seems to be little thought about the impact that would have on the U.S. economy on fuel prices and on national security. Nor is any credit given for industry advances in environmentally friendly technology except as a warrant for more regulation. 4. Banning nuclear energy. Perhaps with Nevada the fourth state in the 2020 primary contests in mind most of the candidates objected to nuclear energy because of challenges around nuclear waste storage. Only businessman Andrew Yang and Sen. Cory Booker D NJ offered defenses of nuclear power as a zero emissions alternative with Booker making the obvious argument if you believe we need to reduce emissions quickly nuclear is the only way. 5. Banning plastic straws discouraging meat eliminatingincandescent light bulbs.Sen. Kamala Harris D CA admitted that paper straws are useless but wants to ban the plastic ones anyway based on pseudoscience. Booker a vegansays you can eat what you want thanks! but the rest want you to find another source of protein. And the candidates mocked Trump for halting the imposition of energy efficient bulbs seemingly ignorant of health risks. The craziness didnt end there. Biden blamed climate change for the cancer and thegenocide in Darfur previously thought to be the fault of Arab militias slaughtering raping and displacing black African civilians. Buttigieg said he would explain climate change to folks in the heartland by telling them God thought greenhouse gases were a sin. Bernie Sanders suggested global population control encouraged by organizations that promote abortion abroad. They all want to rejoin the Paris Climate Accords none wants to submit them to the Senate for ratification but several want to eliminate or evade the filibuster to pass the Green New Deal the green socialist manifesto written by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D NY. No compromises on the road to utopia. And plenty new material for Trumps campaign ads. Send a receipt to Jeff Zucker and file a form with the FEC. This one will leave a mark. Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor at Large at Breitbart News. He earned an A.B. in Social Studies and Environmental Science and Public Policy from Harvard College and a J.D. from Harvard Law School. He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship. He is also the co author ofHow Trump Won The Inside Story of a Revolution which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at 	True	True	False	True	True
President Donald Trump blamed bad environmental laws for making wildfires spreading across California much worse in a Sunday tweet. Trump wrote these laws arent allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized which is instead being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire spreading! Persistent heat dry condition and winds have fueled several major wildfires across California the biggest of which is the Carr Fire thats scorched more than 140000 acres and killed seven people. RELATED NYT Claims Global Greening From CO2 Is Terrible Gets Owned State officials said the Carr Fire was sparked in late July by a flat tire on a trailer scraping against the asphalt on a road near Redding California. California Gov. Jerry Brown a Democrat blamed man made global warming for the states rash of intense fires in the last couple of years however wildfire experts and conservatives tend to blame poor land management policies coupled with the expansion of human development into fire prone areas. Thats likely what Trump is referring to when he tweeted must also tree clear to stop fire spreading! Thinning of trees and removing of dead vegetation and brush can help mitigate wildfires. Whats not a clear link to wildfires however is Trumps referral to California water supplies being diverted into the ocean. Hes likely referring to the diverting of water from the Sacramento San Joaquin River Delta into the ocean to protect the delta smelt an endangered fish. Republicans and farmers have complained about management of the smelt population for years because precious water was being pumped out to sea instead of going towards other uses including agriculture. Those concerns were magnified during the recent multi year drought and recent population surveys show fresh water diversion has not been enough to keep smelt populations from declining. However its unclear how diverting water into the Pacific Ocean affects wildfires in California. Trump also lambasted policies forcing river water to be diverted during the 2016 campaign. Is there a drought? Trump said at a rally in Fresno that year. No we have plenty of water adding we shove it out to sea. Trump approved disaster declarations for the Carr Fire making it easier for state and federal officials to share resources and coordinate a response.	True	True	False	False	False
The permafrost that covers great swaths of Siberia northern Canada Alaska and Greenland is warming twice as fast as other parts of the planet and could be gone by midcentury causing more warming and releasing gigatonnes of carbon dioxide and methane. That has all kind of consequences both locally for this region for the animals and the people who live here as well as globally Max Holmes a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center who is studying the permafrost in Alaska told the New York Times. As global temperatures rise scientists are trying to determine the likely speed and scale of the melting of Alaskas permafrost. In geology permafrost is a thick subsurface layer of soil that remains frozen throughout the year. Located in high latitudes it covers about 24 percent of the land surface in the northern hemisphere and can be up to 1km thick. Some of the permafrost dates back to the last Ice Age. Most of this area is found in Siberia northern Canada Alaska and Greenland. Permafrost is thought to contain about twice as much carbon dioxide and methane as is currently in the atmosphere. When permafrost melts microbes convert carbon to carbon dioxide causing even more warming. Scientists estimate the thawing could contribute as much as 1.7F 1C to global warming over the next several centuries regardless of what nations do to reduce emissions from burning fossil fuels and other activities. Holmes led a team of scientists in July to take permafrost cores sediment and water samples from the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge to better understand how thawing permafrost affects the landscape and how much and what mix of greenhouse gases are released. In order to know how much is lost you have to know how much is there Sue Natali a Woods Hole scientist and permafrost expert told the New York Times. Vladimir Romanovsky a permafrost researcher with the University of Alaska Fairbanks said the temperatures at a depth of 65ft have risen to 5.5F 3C over decades. Minus 3 is not that far from zero Dr. Romanovsky told the New York Times. He estimates that if emissions and warming continue at the same rate near surface temperatures will rise above freezing around the middle of the century. In 2013 the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC projected that temperature increases in Alaska and northern Russia could reduce permafrost by between 37 and 87 percent by the end of this century. If that occurs it could potentially leak 1700 gigatonnes of carbon and methane twice what is already in the atmosphere. A global temperature rise of 2.7F 1.5C above current levels would be enough to start the thawing of the permafrost in Siberia according to scientists from the earth sciences depart at Oxford University in a report published in Science Express in 2016.	False	False	False	False	False
At a conservative event in Steamboat Springs Colorado on Friday Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke pounced on the opportunity to blast his critics including the environmental terrorists he blames for wildfires in the West. The left he said is angry intolerant and uninformed when it comes to public lands and environmental issues and they arent interested in debate one of the things that have made America great. They dont want to be informed. They dont want to do the research Zinke said. They go to the same little trough of Kool Aid every day. And they dont want to expand their paradigm and look at the actual facts. On Sunday Zinke traveled to fire ravaged California where he made it abundantly clear that the Trump administration has no interest in the scientific research showing climate change is contributing to the extreme fires raging across the West or that the effect on wildfires is expected to grow as climate change drives up global temperatures and fuels droughts. Ive heard the climate change argument back and forth. This has nothing to do with climate change he told KCRA TV in Sacramento. This has to do with active forest management. It doesnt matter whether you believe or dont believe in climate change he said during another interview this weekend while touring neighborhoods torched by the deadly Carr fire west of Redding California. To be fair Zinke acknowledged that theres no doubt the fire season is getting longer the temperatures are getting hotter as The Sacramento Bee reported. But he didnt dwell on those factors and instead argued for more logging and thinning of forests while taking another swing at environmental groups that he says stand in the way of such efforts. Its true that the accumulation of fuel is among the factors that have contributed to increased fire activity and California is taking additional steps to improve forest health. But a 2016 study found that human caused climate change had doubled the amount of land that burned in Western forests over a 30 year period by significantly drying out vegetation. Thirteen of the states 20 most destructive fires on record have occurred since 2003. Coming in at No. 6 is the Carr fire which has burned more than 200000 acres destroyed 1599 structures and killed seven people including three firefighters. Additionally 15 of the states 20 largest fires have occurred since 2002. The Mendocino Complex fire which has burned nearly 300000 acres north of Santa Rosa surpassed last years Thomas fire as the largest wildfire in Californias history. California is already way ahead of where it was at this time last year both in terms of the number of fires fought and the acreage burned. That a member of President Donald Trumps Cabinet would dismiss the link between climate change and wildfire is par for the course. What makes Zinkes statements during his trip to California so astonishing is that they come two days after he stressed the importance of being informed and open minded. As HuffPost reported last week the administration appears to be using the disaster in California as an opportunity to push partisan policy. While Zinke works the logging angle Trump and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross have attempted to connect devastating California wildfires to a longstanding fight between farmers and environmentalists over water resources. The move came just two days after California fire officials dismissed Trumps claims that the fires have been exacerbated by a water shortage resulting from bad environmental laws. As they see it the problem is the one that Zinke and other administration officials refuse to acknowledge.	False	False	False	True	False
Scientists have uncovered the largest volcanic region on Earth two kilometres below the surface of the vast ice sheet that covers west Antarctica. The project by Edinburgh University researchers has revealed almost 100 volcanoes with the highest as tall as the Eiger which stands at almost 4000 metres in Switzerland. Geologists say this huge region is likely to dwarf that of east Africas volcanic ridge currently rated the densest concentration of volcanoes in the world. And the activity of this range could have worrying consequences they have warned. If one of these volcanoes were to erupt it could further destabilise west Antarcticas ice sheets said glacier expert Robert Bingham one of the papers authors. Anything that causes the melting of ice which an eruption certainly would is likely to speed up the flow of ice into the sea. The big question is how active are these volcanoes? That is something we need to determine as quickly as possible. The Edinburgh volcano survey reported in the Geological Societys special publications series involved studying the underside of the west Antarctica ice sheet for hidden peaks of basalt rock similar to those produced by the regions other volcanoes. Their tips actually lie above the ice and have been spotted by polar explorers over the past century. But how many lie below the ice? This question was originally asked by the teams youngest member Max Van Wyk de Vries an undergraduate at the universitys school of geosciences and a self confessed volcano fanatic. He set up the project with the help of Bingham. Their study involved analysing measurements made by previous surveys which involved the use of ice penetrating radar carried either by planes or land vehicles to survey strips of the west Antarctic ice. The results were then compared with satellite and database records and geological information from other aerial surveys. Essentially we were looking for evidence of volcanic cones sticking up into the ice Bingham said. After the team had collated the results it reported a staggering 91 previously unknown volcanoes adding to the 47 others that had been discovered over the previous century of exploring the region. These newly discovered volcanoes range in height from 100 to 3850 metres. All are covered in ice which sometimes lies in layers that are more than 4km thick in the region. These active peaks are concentrated in a region known as the west Antarctic rift system which stretches 3500km from Antarcticas Ross ice shelf to the Antarctic peninsula. We were amazed Bingham said. We had not expected to find anything like that number. We have almost trebled the number of volcanoes known to exist in west Antarctica. We also suspect there are even more on the bed of the sea that lies under the Ross ice shelf so that I think it is very likely this region will turn out to be the densest region of volcanoes in the world greater even than east Africa where mounts Nyiragongo Kilimanjaro Longonot and all the other active volcanoes are concentrated. The discovery is particularly important because the activity of these volcanoes could have crucial implications for the rest of the planet. If one erupts it could further destabilise some of the regions ice sheets which have already been affected by global warming. Meltwater outflows into the Antarctic ocean could trigger sea level rises. We just dont know about how active these volcanoes have been in the past Bingham said. However he pointed to one alarming trend The most volcanism that is going in the world at present is in regions that have only recently lost their glacier covering after the end of the last ice age. These places include Iceland and Alaska. Theory suggests that this is occurring because without ice sheets on top of them there is a release of pressure on the regions volcanoes and they become more active. And this could happen in west Antarctica where significant warming in the region caused by climate change has begun to affect its ice sheets. If they are reduced significantly this could release pressure on the volcanoes that lie below and lead to eruptions that could further destabilise the ice sheets and enhance sea level rises that are already affecting our oceans. It is something we will have to watch closely Bingham said.	True	False	False	True	True
The progressive Democratic newcomer from New York joined more than 100 environmental youth activists on Tuesday for a sit in inside House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosis Capitol Hill office to encourage a deal to transition to a 100 percent renewable energy based economy to fight climate change. The demonstration took place the same day that new members of Congress including Ocasio Cortez arrived for orientation. They asked me to join them and I did Ocasio Cortez tweeted of her involvement with members of the Sunrise Movement and Justice Democrats who visited several elected officials offices in the building. We can embrace the energy of activism to move our partys goals forward. Pelosis office in a statement shared by Ocasio Cortez on Twitter expressed support for the activists and said that she has recommended reinstating the Select Committee on Climate Change a special climate change committee that was dissolved by Republicans in 2011. House Democrats ran on and won on our bold campaign for a 1 trillion investment in our infrastructure that will make our communities more resilient to the climate crisis while creating 16 million new good paying jobs across the country Pelosis statement read. We welcome the presence of these activists and we strongly urge the Capitol Police to allow them to continue to organize and participate in our democracy. California is burning. Fossil fuel billionaires have a grip on America's democracy. We're running out of time to act. But we're going to win. We'll pass a win the solutions we need. We'll win because we have a movement behind us. And together we're unstoppable. pic.twitter.commw6dKSxPVj 350 dot org November 13 2018 Members of the Sunrise Movement responding to Pelosis support in their ownstatement on Twitter said they welcomed her endorsement but added that words arent enough. The group urged her to step aside if she is unable to mandate such a plan. Ocasio Cortez added that she supports Pelosi reinstating the Select Committee and highlighted the activists requests that the committee draft a Green New Deal calling for 100 percent renewable energy and a commitment from the committees appointed members that they wont accept funding from the fossil fuel industry.	False	True	False	True	False
WASHINGTON President Trump'slatest effort to boost the nation's manufacturing sector is an industry friendly rewrite of air quality regulations he says pose unnecessary and outdated barriers to growth. But environmental advocates warn it would be another damaging step by an administration obsessed withderegulation at the expense of hard fought public health protections. The proposed loosening of air quality standards came in the form of a directive Trump issued Thursday instructing the EPA towork with states that have metro areas which failed to attain clean air standards. The president's primary aim the directive states is promoting domestic manufacturing and job creation. Dozens of communities across the country fail to meet Clean Air Act standards for at least one of six key pollutantsground level ozone smog particulate matter soot or smoke carbon monoxide lead sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide according to the EPA. Building or expanding major projects such as highways and manufacturing plants in these non attainment areas requires extra time and cost to make sure the increased industrial activity won't worsen air quality. And states with non attainment areas have to file plans with the EPA to show how they're confronting the problem a review process that can take years. Trump's directive orders the EPA to work with states to expedite those approvals and instructs the agency to consider whether the current process should be revised or rescinded ...to provide states with additional implementation flexibility. These actions are intended to ensure that EPA carries out its core missions of protecting the environment and improving air quality in accord with statutory requirements while reducing unnecessary impediments to new manufacturing and business expansion essential for a growing economy the presidentsaid in a statement accompanying the order. Read More Assailed as tool of industry EPA administrator Pruitt affirms importance of science Read More Exclusive EPA's Pruitt vows to continue rolling back rules despite alarming climate report Read More Scott Pruitt on a mission to change the climate of the EPA The directive comes at a time when the EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has been under increasing bipartisan fire on Capitol Hill for a number of management missteps spending decisions and potential ethical conflicts. The president has staunchly defended Pruitt largely because Trump and his conservative allies applaud how aggressively the EPA is rolling back regulations and promoting economic growth. In the 14 months he's been the nation's top environmental rulemaker the former Oklahoma attorney general who sued the EPA more than a dozen times has rolled back the Clean Power Plan rescinded the Waters of the U.S. rule and helped convince the president to back out of the Paris Accord on climate change among a number of changes. And Trump's vow to bring back coal important in mining states like West Virginia where he just visitedhave been buoyed by Pruitt's actions. The air quality directive doesnt instruct the EPA to revise the air quality standards themselves. Instead environmental advocates worry the administration would try to circumvent clean air standards without congressional say so by pursuing steps that could make it easier for industry to meet current regulations without being required to improve the quality of the air Americans beatheevery day. One of those steps they say would allow states to expand the size of non attainment areas to include areas with cleaner air so that overall pollutant levels meet environmental standards. Another would permit the EPA to discount many studies used as the basis for air quality standards for a lack of transparency because those analyses use individual health datathat cant be disclosed because they're protected under federal privacy laws. This is a backhanded way of weakening the most important and sacrosanct provision of theclean Air Act and he's nodoing it through any normal legislative process said Bill Becker former executive director of the National Association of Clean Air Agencies which represents state regulators. Trumps action empowers Pruitt to ignore science and data in determining compliance with air quality standards saidSara JordanLegislative Representative for the League of Conservation Voters. By directing the EPA to reconsider all of its past guidance from the federal air quality program Trump is threatening clean air protections for cities across the country she said. This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters. Industry representatives say the maze of federal rules governing a slew of environmental and health standards are unnecessary and burdensome. If states had more wiggle room in how they measure and apply air quality standards thousandsof jobs could be created they said. Over the years regulations on air quality have become so complicated that it can be nearly impossible for manufacturers to secure the needed approvals just to open a new facility said Ross Eisenberg Vice President for Energy and Resources Policy with the NationalAssociation of Manufacturers. EPA officials point out that much progress has been made on air quality in recent decades.Levels of Nitrogen Dioxide NOx for example have dropped by more than 50 percent since 2000. There are no monitors in the U.S. currently measuring pollution above those standards. The order encourages federal and state regulators to speed up reviews of air quality permits echoing Trump's call for quicker approvals involving infrastructure projects such as bridges roads and pipelines. But Beckersaid that comes off as a hollow demand considering the president's budget calls for significant cuts in EPA personnel and state environmental grants that help pay for such reviews. One of the most troubling aspects of Trump's order is that it's directing an agency established to reduce pollution to make job creation an expresspriority saidJohn Walke director of theNatural Resources Defense Council's clean air program. The memo encourages reliance on air pollution modeling for deregulatory purposes or permits desired by industry but not for regulatory purposes that would better protect Americans he said.	False	False	False	True	True
Bill Nye took on Republican Rep. Thomas Massey who claims to be an electrical engineer but he doesnt understand climate change. And the guy that I saw the other day if I may take a moment was congressman Thomas Massey from Kentucky and he is an electrical engineer. He says on his website he claims to be an inventor and he acted as though he cannot grasp this he focused on the idea that 800000 years ago there was a higher level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere than there is today and how do we know that? By looking at the ice cores or the ancient atmospheres in the ancient ice. I presume you dont watch MSNBCA member of his staff might. Thats what Im hoping for. Im hoping for. So congressman or the congressmans staff heres the hockey stick graph that you guys love to go off thats been debunked. No it hasnt been debunked. Its a fact. If youre really an electrical engineer heres the problem. The rate of global warming if it was even detectable at this scale with about .1 degrees celsius every thousand or maybe even every 10000 years. Now its that .1 degree Celsius every decade. So congressman its like this in calculus terms. The rate of temperature getting bigger is very high. This would be dT dt where capital T is temperature and and the lower case is time or congressmans staff if out there thats the problem. This looks like an exaggerated hockey stick because it is. Its the speed. The Trump administration recently called a science a Democrat thing so no one should expect the Republican Party to get won over into believing facts again but Bill Nye laid it all out nice and easy. The temperature is rising quickly. It is a race against time and the longer that Republicans deny and delay the worse it will be for our planet our people and our future. For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.	False	False	False	False	True
Virginia Del. Lashrecse Aird D If elected Virginia Del. Lashrecse Aird D would be the states first female speaker of the House and the first Black person to lead the legislative body. You have in my opinion a Commonwealth that wants to see that. You have members who have been in our caucus and who will be coming into our caucus that want to see that happen she added. I strongly believe that the other individuals in this race their personal politics has never been about bold progressive leadership so why are they going to start now because they receive a new title? Now the monopolies critics fear that the companies which extract fossil fuels and generate energy in addition to transmitting it will seek to water down any efforts to combat climate change. To the extent that Democrats pass legislation mandating more renewable energy use antitrust crusaders inside and outside the legislature fear that Dominion and Appalachian will try to monopolize production of those new energy sources as well. Having gender equality public safety LGBTQ equality gun safety those are the things we should be able to accomplish regardless of whos in charge Only taking care of those things is such a cheap cop out for what a party should stand for. I want to go beyond those issues said Del. Mark Keam a Fairfax County Democrat who would not say how he plans to vote in the leadership race. How do you change infrastructure so we run on clean energy rather than fossil fuels? We need to get there by breaking down monopolies and increasing competition. Aird is pitching her Democratic colleagues on not only the vision of a more ambitious legislative agenda but also on granting rank and file House Democrats more opportunities to shape caucus priorities. On Friday she released a 14 page report 60 Day Plan for a Stronger Commonwealth outlining her proposals which include the creation of new leadership posts and a new committee dedicated to energy and natural resources. That committee Aird acknowledged would enable the House to take a proactive role in oversight of the states utility monopolies. I feel like I have one foot in the old world and one foot in the new world to lead some of the new folks that came in in 2017 and will be coming in this year she said. I will take a balanced approach to governing.	False	False	False	True	True
Staff at the US Department of Agriculture USDA have been told to avoid using the term climate change in their work with the officials instructed to reference weather extremes instead. A series of emails obtained by the Guardian between staff at the Natural Resources Conservation Service NRCS a USDA unit that oversees farmers land conservation show that the incoming Trump administration has had a stark impact on the language used by some federal employees around climate change. A missive from Bianca Moebius Clune director of soil health lists terms that should be avoided by staff and those that should replace them. Climate change is in the avoid category to be replaced by weather extremes. Instead of climate change adaption staff are asked to use resilience to weather extremes. The primary cause of human driven climate change is also targeted with the term reduce greenhouse gases blacklisted in favor of build soil organic matter increase nutrient use efficiency. Meanwhile sequester carbon is ruled out and replaced by build soil organic matter. In her email to staff dated 16 February this year Moebius Clune said the new language was given to her staff and suggests it be passed on. She writes that we wont change the modeling just how we talk about it there are a lot of benefits to putting carbon back in the sail sic climate mitigation is just one of them and that a colleague from USDAs public affairs team gave advice to tamp down on discretionary messaging right now. In contrast to these newly contentious climate terms Moebius Clune wrote that references to economic growth emerging business opportunities in the rural US agro tourism and improved aesthetics should be tolerated if not appreciated by all. In a separate email to senior employees on 24 January just days after Trumps inauguration Jimmy Bramblett deputy chief for programs at the NRCS said It has become clear one of the previous administrations priority is not consistent with that of the incoming administration. Namely that priority is climate change. Please visit with your staff and make them aware of this shift in perspective within the executive branch. Bramblett added that prudence should be used when discussing greenhouse gases and said the agencys work on air quality regarding these gases could be discontinued. Other emails show the often agonized discussions between staff unsure of what is forbidden. On 16 February a staffer named Tim Hafner write to Bramblett I would like to know correct terms I should use instead of climate changes and anything to do with carbon ... I want to ensure to incorporate correct terminology that the agency has approved to use. On 5 April Suzanne Baker a New York based NRCS employee emailed a query as to whether staff are allowed to publish work from outside the USDA that use climate change. A colleague advises that the issue be determined in a phone call. Some staff werent enamored with the new regime with one employee stating on an email on 5 July that we would prefer to keep the language as is and stressing the need to maintain the scientific integrity of the work. In a statement USDA said that on 23 January it had issued interim operating procedures outlining procedures to ensure the new policy team has an opportunity to review policy related statements legislation budgets and regulations prior to issuance. The statement added This guidance similar to procedures issued by previous administrations was misinterpreted by some to cover data and scientific publications. This was never the case and USDA interim procedures will allow complete objective information for the new policy staff reviewing policy decisions. Kaveh Sadeghzadeh of the Natural Resources Conservation Service added that his organisation has not received direction from USDA or the administration to modify its communications on climate change or any other topic. Trump has repeatedly questioned the veracity of climate change research infamously suggesting that it is part of an elaborate Chinese hoax. The president has started the process of withdrawing the US from the Paris climate agreement has instructed the Environmental Protection Agency EPA to scrap or amend various regulations aimed at cutting greenhouse gases and has moved to open up more public land and waters to fossil fuel activity. The nomenclature of the federal government has also shifted as these new priorities have taken hold. Mentions of the dangers of climate change have been removed from the websites of the White House and the Department of the Interior while the EPA scrapped its entire online climate section in April pending a review that will be updating language to reflect the approach of new leadership. These records reveal Trumps active censorship of science in the name of his political agenda said Meg Townsend open government attorney at the Center for Biological Diversity. To think that federal agency staff who report about the air water and soil that sustains the health of our nation must conform their reporting with the Trump administrations anti science rhetoric is appalling and dangerous for America and the greater global community. The Center for Biological Diversity is currently suing several government agencies including the EPA and state department to force them to release information on the censoring of climate change verbiage. While some of the changes to government websites may have occurred anyway the emails from within the USDA are the clearest indication yet that staff have been instructed to steer clear of acknowledging climate change or its myriad consequences. US agriculture is a major source of heat trapping gases with 15 of the countrys emissions deriving from farming practices. A USDA plan to address the far reaching impacts of climate change is still online. However Sam Clovis Trumps nomination to be the USDAs chief scientist has labeled climate research junk science. Last week it was revealed that Clovis who is not a scientist once ran a blog where he called progressives race traders and race traitors and likened Barack Obama to a communist.	True	False	False	True	True
ROME Reuters Pope Francis implicitly criticized the United States on Monday for pulling out of the Paris agreement on climate change praising it as a means to control the devastating effects of global warming. The United States is the only country out of 195 signatories to have withdrawn from the accord which aims to cut emissions blamed for the rise in temperatures. U.S. President Donald Trump announced the decision in June shortly after visiting the pope a strong supporter of the deal. At the time a Vatican official said the move was a slap in the face for the pope and the Vatican. We see consequences of climate change every day the pope said in an address to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation FAO at its headquarters in Rome. Thanks to scientific knowledge we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods such as the Paris Accord which sadly some have abandoned he said. Under the deal United States had committed to reducing its own emissions by 26 to 28 percent compared with 2005 levels by 2025. Many world leaders have criticized Trump for deciding to pull out. In his Spanish language address to the U.N. agency Francis denounced negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet and the greed for profit. Agriculture ministers and diplomats from the Group of Seven G7 world power nations attended the gathering which marked FAOs World Food Day. We cant be satisfied by saying someone else will do it' the pope said. Ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the prerequisites for dealing with world food security Francis also said. The yoke of poverty caused by the often tragic movement of migrants can be removed by prevention consisting of development projects that create jobs and offer the capacity to respond to climactic and environmental changes he said.	False	True	False	True	False
PORTO VELHO Brazil Lingering smoke in the Amazon caused concern Tuesday among Brazilians who say that respiratory problems particularly among children and the elderly have increased as fires in the region rage. The kids are affected the most. Theyre coughing a lot said Elane Diaz a nurse in the Rondonia state capital of Porto Velho as she waited for a doctors appointment at the citys 9 of July hospital with her 5 year old son Eduardo. They have problems breathing. Im concerned because it affects their health. The number of people treated for respiratory issues increased sharply in recent days at the local Cosme e Damia Childrens hospital. This period has been very tough. The dry weather and the smoke causes many problems on children such as pneumonia coughing and secretion Daniel Pires a pediatrician and the hospitals adjunct director told the Folha de S. Paulo newspaper. From Aug. 1 to Aug. 10 the median number of cases was about 120 to 130 children with respiratory problems. From Aug. 11 to Aug. 20 it went up to 280 cases. Amazon fires What would the Earth be like without the Amazon rainforest? Growing fears over the health impacts are emerging as the number of fires in Brazil surges with more than 77000 documented by the countrys National Space Research Institute in the last year. About half of the fires occurred in the Amazon region with most in the past month. But as breathing related ailments appear to be on the rise attention to the issue has largely been overshadowed by growingacrimony between Brazil and European countries seeking to help fight Amazon fires and protect a region seen as vital to the health of the planet. At a summit in France this week G 7 nations pledged to help fight the flames and protect the rainforest by offering 20 million in addition to a separate 12 million from Britain and 11 million from Canada. But Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro a far right climate skeptic who took office this year with a promise to boost development in Latin Americas biggest economy questioned whether offers of international aid mask a plot to exploit the Amazons resources and weaken Brazilian growth. On Tuesday he said that his French counterpart President Emmanuel Macron had called him a liar and would have to apologize before Brazil considers accepting rainforest aid. Macron has to retract those comments and then we can speak Bolsonaro said. In a video message Brazilian novelist Paulo Coelho offered an apology to France for what he called Bolsonaros hysteria saying the Brazilian government had resorted to insults to dodge responsibility for the Amazon fires. Meanwhile within Brazil a number of people said they supported Bolsonaro despite local and international criticism of his handling of the crisis exposing a divide that has split the country. Grace Quale a hospital laboratory technician who attended a service at an evangelical church on Sunday said that critics want to overthrow our president and that she didnt see a link between Bolsonaros environmental policies and the number of people getting treatment for respiratory problems. Mona Lisa Pereira an agronomist also said criticism of Brazils government was skewed. Germany had already been helping through NGOs and they couldnt prevent this Pereira said. It seems like this is the fire of a lifetime. But its not. We have fires every year. Others said in an open letter that the governments discourse and measures are leading to a collapse in federal environmental management and stimulate environmental crimes inside and outside the Amazon. More than 500 employees from the environmental regulator IBAMA signed the letter and included a list of emergency measures they recommended including more qualified management and employees and a greater budget and increased autonomy. The Amazon has experienced an increased rate of fires during drought periods in the last 20 years but the phenomenon this year is unusual because drought has not yet hit said Laura Schneider of Rutgers University New Brunswick. Schneider an associate professor in the geography department said fire is commonly used by people to clear land for cultivation and the actual area burned this year must be measured for an accurate comparison with damage in past years. While many of the recorded fires this year were set in already deforested areas by people clearing land for cultivation or pasture Brazil government figures show that they are much more widespread this year suggesting the threat to the vast Amazon ecosystem is intensifying. But for now more immediate consequences of the raging flames were becoming clear. The worlds largest rainforest is a major absorber of carbon dioxide considered a critical defense against rising temperatures and other disruptions caused by climate change. The government in the Amazonian state of Rondonia has warned that the burning of land can produce smoke that can greatly influence atmospheric pollution putting the life of many at risk. Experts there said that when exposed to smoke residents can suffer from rhinitis sinus and respiratory problems like asthma and bronchitis while chronic exposure can also lead to pulmonary illnesses including lung emphysema. Weve seen that Porto Velho has been taken over by smoke so inhaling those antigens and pathogens can harm the whole citys population Ana Carolina Terra Cruz a specialist in pulmonary illnesses told the state government website. Deep ramifications Trump would cost General Motors billions if he actually orders business out of China On Tuesday some clouds and a blue sky were partly visible in the Porto Velho morning light. But by the afternoon haze had again settled with smoke so thick that it darkened the usually blazing sun. Pereira the agronomist said that smoke was everywhere. Its bad for everyone she said. Not just our children.	True	True	False	True	False
Fans of Greta Thunberg have expressed relief after the 16 year old posted a string of smiling photographs on Instagram. The environmental activist's recent images taken while touring Canada's east coast in Montreal and Quebec are in sharp contrast to images of the 16 year old speaking in an emotionally charged appearance last month at the Climate Action Summit 2019 in New York. A photo of Greta scowling when she spotted Donald Trump went viral. The teenage campaigner who has 7.2million followers on Instagram looks decidedly happier since she crossed the border from the US something which her followers haven't failed to notice. Writing on Instagram Greta said 'So happy to say that the following weeks I'll travel slowly through the North American continent moving southwest and then eventually through South America towards Santiago. I will stop on the way and visit as many places as I can and of course protest every Friday no matter where I am.' Yesterday the teenager posted an image of herself at the Marine Mammal Interpretation Centre in Tadoussac Qubec after spending a morning watching whales. The tone of Greta's images have changed significantly since she addressed the United Nations Climate Summit on September 23rd where she came close to tears in a emotional speech to international delegates. She told them 'I shouldn't be up here. I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean. Yet you all come to us for hope. How dare you. You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words' During the same appearance Greta was seen at the UN headquarters with an enraged expression on her face as US President Donald Trump upstaged her entrance by walking in flanked by news reporters an image that promptly went viral. Among the comments posted by the environmentalist's followers many remarked how much happier the teenager had looked in recent days. On Instagram Jesuissuzette wrote 'Greta you look so much happier now that youre out of America. Enjoy your travels. And thank you for your intrepid Climate Crisis campaign.' Last week Thunberg addressed on social media the negativity she's received for speaking out on climate change saying 'Here we go again... As you may have noticed the haters are as active as ever going after me my looks my clothes my behaviour and my differences. They come up with every thinkable lie and conspiracy theory. It seems they will cross every possible line to avert the focus since they are so desperate not to talk about the climate and ecological crisis. Being different is not an illness and the current best available science is not opinions its facts.' Greta who is taking a sabbatical year from school arrived in North America in August taking a two week crossing on carbon neutral yacht Malizia II to address the United Nations. Greta Thunberg's fiery speech at the UN Climate Action Summit in New York This is all wrong. I shouldnt be standing here. I should be back in school on the other side of the ocean. Yet you all come to me for hope? How dare you! You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words. And yet Im one of the lucky ones. People are suffering. People are dying. Entire ecosystems are collapsing. We are in the beginning of a mass extinction. And all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth. How dare you! For more than 30 years the science has been crystal clear. How dare you continue to look away and come here saying that you are doing enough when the politics and solutions needed are still nowhere in sight. You say you hear us and that you understand the urgency. But no matter how sad and angry I am I dont want to believe that. Because if you fully understood the situation and still kept on failing to act then you would be evil. And I refuse to believe that. The popular idea of cutting our emissions in half in 10 years only gives us a 50 chance of staying below 1.5C degrees and the risk of setting off irreversible chain reactions beyond human control. Maybe 50 is acceptable to you. But those numbers dont include tipping points most feedback loops additional warming hidden by toxic air pollution or the aspects of justice and equity. They also rely on my and my childrens generation sucking hundreds of billions of tonnes of your CO2 out of the air with technologies that barely exist. So a 50 risk is simply not acceptable to us we who have to live with the consequences. To have a 67 chance of staying below a 1.5C global temperature rise the best odds given by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change the world had 420 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide left to emit back on 1 January 2018. Today that figure is already down to less than 350 gigatonnes. How dare you pretend that this can be solved with business as usual and some technical solutions. With todays emissions levels that remaining CO2 budget will be entirely gone in less than eight and a half years. There will not be any solutions or plans presented in line with these figures today. Because these numbers are too uncomfortable. And you are still not mature enough to tell it like it is. You are failing us. But the young people are starting to understand your betrayal. The eyes of all future generations are upon you. And if you choose to fail us I say we will never forgive you. We will not let you get away with this. Right here right now is where we draw the line. The world is waking up. And change is coming whether you like it or not.	False	True	False	True	True
Two of the attorneys representing various cities in climate litigation against oil companies have a history of suing and counter suing each other over personal squabbles according to documents obtained by The Daily Caller News Foundation. Environmental attorneys Vic Sher and Matt Pawa got intoa multi million dollar legal dispute in 2014 stemming from a lawsuit they both worked on against ExxonMobil. Sher who was with Sher Leff at the time allegedPawas group Pawa Law Group failed to distribute money from a settlement in the case. Pawa in turn argued in a lawsuit that Sher was the one cheating him out of millions of dollars. Sher who is now with Sher Edling eventually paid Pawa about 6 million for the retributionscourt documents show. The disagreementstems from a lawsuit New Hampshire filed in 2013 alleging Exxon negligently contaminated the states water ways with 2 billion gallons of MTBE a gas additive experts believe poisons drinking water. The intrigue comes amid growing bad blood between the two sides. The state initially sued 26 oil companies in 2003 over the contamination. New Hampshire previously collected over 130 million for MTBE cleanup from the other defendants. The jury eventually awarded the state damages of 816 million. Exxon was made to pay roughly 29 percent of market share which equaled roughly 236372664 at the time of the lawsuit. New Hampshires Supreme Courtupheld the decisionin 2015 after Exxon appealed the ruling to the top court. A dispute arose between Pawa and Sher in 2012 relating to the division of attorneys fees between them under a contract with New Hampshire which retained both to represent the state in the Exxon contamination case. A panel eventually awarded Pawa nearly 6 million for breaching the agreement. Sher Leff refused to comply with the final award including payment of the amounts awarded to Pawas law firm even while Sher Leff pocketed more than 27 million in attorneys fees from the Exxon case. Sher countersued in 2014 arguing Pawa entered into a secondary oral agreement that the legal fees associated with the case would be delivered proportionally. Shers case was dismissed. Neither Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP a California based law firm that now employs Pawa nor Sher Edling responded to TheDCNFs request for comment about how the nearly five year old lawsuit is affecting their current legal pursuits of Exxon. Both law firms Sher Edling and Hagens Berman are barnstorming the country convincing cities to sue energy companies for allegedly contributing to damage caused by climate change. The rivalry between the two attorneys heated up Nov. 26 after San Francisco and Oaklandfired Hagens Bermanand hired Sher Edling to represent the cities as they appeal a courts decision to dismiss their lawsuits against Exxon. Hagens Berman is handling King County Washingtonslawsuit againstfive major oil companies. The California based firm was also behind anow dismissed climate lawsuitbrought by New York City.RELATEDAnti Exxon Attorneys Suffer Setback Amid Rash Of Legal Defeats Hagens Bermans fee would have been 23.5 percent of any winnings from its cases with San Francisco and Oakland. Hagens Bermanstood to earn possiblybillions of dollars in contingency fees depending on the total winnings had San Francisco Oakland or New York City won their global warming suits. Sher Edling for its part ishandlingclimate lawsuits for six California cities and counties. Local governments suing fossil fuel interests argue state nuisance and trespassing laws which have sometimes been applied to pollution also apply to global warming. They also accuse energy companies of trying to downplay the harms their products allegedly cause. Hagens Berman and Sher Edlings dramacomes after New York fileda lawsuit in October against Exxon for allegedly downplaying for decades the risk the companys oil products pose on the climate. The lawsuitfollows over three years of investigationfirst orchestrated by former Attorney General Eric Schneiderman who resigned in April over abuse allegations from former romantic partners. The probe took many twists and turns and seemed to come to a halt shortly after his resignation.RELATEDSEC Investigators Decide Not To Punish Exxon For Alleged Climate Heresy Exxon engaged in a longstanding fraudulent scheme to deceive investors analysts and underwriters concerning the companys management of the risks posed to its business by climate change regulationthe lawsuit notes. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	False	False	True	True
These devastating images show an indigenous family surveying the ruins of their homeland in the Amazon rainforest. Surrounded by dry soil and fallen timber their native land has been all but destroyed by rapid deforestation. During the day the usually fierce sun is obscured by a thick grey smoke caused by deliberately lit wildfires that are raging out of control across Brazil. The smell is of barbecue caused by vast swathes of the worlds largest tropical rainforest going up in flames. Raimundo Mura indigenous leader with the Mura tribe who live in a reserve near Humaita Amazonas state said For the forest I will go on until my last drop of blood. All the trees had lives they all needed to live each in their own place. For us this is destruction. What is being done here is an atrocity against us. The rainforest is home to some one million indigenous people and three million species of plants and animals. But it is being decimated at record rates burnt or cleared for farming and mining. Scientists have recorded more than 74000 fires in Brazil this year an 84 increase compared to the same period last year. They can now be seen from space and have plunged the largest city Sao Paulo into darkness because of the heavy smoke. In total the blazes have created a layer of smoke estimated to be 1.2 million square miles wide that spreads across Latin America to the Atlantic coast. Handech Wakana Mura another local leader within the forest said With each passing day we see the destruction advance deforestation invasion and logging. We are sad because the forest is dying at every moment. We feel the climate changing and the world needs the forest. We need the forest and our children need the forest. Environmentalists and academics have blamed the Brazilian government under far right President Jair Bolsonaro for a sharp increase in Amazon deforestation. The climate change sceptic swept to power in January promising to open up the Amazon to mining and farming. His rhetoric is said to have emboldened farmers to burn large sections of the rainforest for beef and soy production. Camila Veiga of the Brazilian Association of NGOs said The fires are the consequence of a policy of environmental devastation of support for agribusiness of increasing pastures. The fires have been raging for around three weeks and an area the size of a football pitch is said to be lost every minute. Global concern is growing as the rainforest is key to tackling global warming because of the way it absorbs carbon dioxide and releases oxygen. Mr Bolsonaro largely ignored the issue at first and even attempted to blame environmental charities accusing them of lighting the fires. Opposition MPs have said the raging infernos are a crime against humanity and blamed his policies for fuelling the blazes. French President Emmanuel Macron had called the wildfires an international crisis and said the leaders of the G7 group of nations should hold urgent discussions about them during their summit in France this weekend. Mr Macron tweeted Our house is burning. Literally. The Amazon rain forest the lungs which produces 20 of our planets oxygen is on fire. Mr Bolsonaro hit back at Macron complaining he was the subject of a smear campaign and the media had exploited the fires to undermine his government. His chief of staff Onyx Lorenzoni also accused European countries of exaggerating environmental problems in Brazil in order to disrupt its commercial interests. Relations between Europe and Brazil are at a low which has worried the powerful agriculture sector. Last week Norway joined Germany in halting 60 million worth of Amazon protection subsidies accusing Brazil of turning its back on the fight against deforestation. French and German leaders have also threatened not to ratify a trade deal between the European Union and Mercosur countries Argentina Brazil Paraguay and Uruguay to pressure Brazil into complying with its environmental pledges within the Paris Climate Agreement. In contrast the UK is currently on a trade mission in Brazil attempting to forge closer ties post Brexit. The neighbouring country of Bolivia is also struggling with wildfires many believed to have been set by farmers clearing land for cultivation.	False	False	False	True	False
Nearly 10000 farmers and ranchers are endorsing the Green New Deal as the climate policy battleground expands from the oil fields to the agricultural fields. In a letter sent to Congresson Wednesday morning the newly formed bipartisan coalition U.S. Farmers Ranchers for a Green New Deal threw its weight behind the sweeping industrial plan outlined in a resolution that Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. proposed in February. But zeroing out the countrys planet heating emissions by mid century requires a transformation in agriculture as dramatic as shifting the energy sector away from fossil fuels the letter says. We believe these climate goals are achievable the letter argues but only if the GND includes policies that spur two large scale transitions the transition away from fossil fuels toward renewable energy alternatives and the transition away from industrial agriculture toward family farm based organic and regenerative farming and land use practices that improve soil health and draw down and sequester carbon. The letter was signed by more than 500 individual farms and 50 organizations representing close to 10000 members. Regeneration International a sustainable farming nonprofit organized the missive with the climate justice group Sunrise Movement. It also hosted a Wednesday morning press conference in Washington. A month ago the United Nations released a dire new report urging major changes to food production and land management and warning that emissions cuts alone will fall short of halting catastrophic global warming. Taking cues from those pushing for a Green New Deal several Democratic presidential hopefuls have made farming practices central to their climate proposals. Sen. Bernie Sanders I Vt. earmarked 410 billion in his Green New Deal proposal to help farms of all sizes transition to ecologically regenerative agricultural practices. Sen. Elizabeth Warren D Mass. called for breaking up agriculture monopolies as part of her broad rural platform. South Bend Indiana MayorPete Buttigieg vowed to support farmers by paying them to capture carbon. Yet even as farmers reel from the effects of President Donald Trumps trade war with China Democratic candidates are far from guaranteed their votes. Farmers supported the Trump administrations proposal last week tofinalize the rollback of the Obama era Waters of the U.S. rule which had put new restrictions on which waterways agribusiness could pollute. Early on Republican opposition to the Green New Deal itself coalesced around the idea that such a program would ban beef production although supporters have clearly said it would not. We call on Congress to put the Green in the Green New Deal Wednesdays letter reads by empowering us to revitalize the health and economic security of this countrys middle class to make family farming economically viable again and to help reverse climate change and improve Americas air and water quality by making our ecosystems healthy again.	True	False	False	True	False
A new study published in the highly influential journal Nature suggests rising global temperatures during the 19th and 20th centuries may be linked to greater plant photosynthesis. The study conducted by researchers at the University of California at Merced estimated based on its models the sum of all plant photosynthesis on Earth grew by 30 percent over the 200 year record captured according to an article published on the UC Merced website. Photosynthesis is the process of converting carbon dioxide into carbohydrates which power plants using sunlight. According to the UC Merced article The research did not identify the cause of the increased photosynthesis but computer models have shown several processes that could together create such a large change in global plant growth. The leading candidates are rising atmospheric CO2 levels a result of emissions from human activities longer growing seasons a result of climate change caused by CO2 emissions and nitrogen pollution another result of fossil fuel combustion and agriculture the article also claims. In other words more carbon dioxide which is being produced by humans at record levels has improved plant growth which in turn improves food production for humans and animals. Campbell said the evidence shows a fundamental shift in the Earths plants and that global plant growth should be a central goal for the human race. However dont too excited Campbell warns. He says despite the researchers findings which clearly show global warming helps plantsand thus also helping humans and animalsglobal warming has many negative effects too such as causing climate change which will increase flooding of coastal cities extreme weather and ocean acidification. The researchers study in Nature provided no proof oftheclaim global warming is caused by humans or that global warming will cause the severe problemsCampbell said it will in the quotes provided by the UC Merced article. The study also offered no solutions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions without causing severe economic and social problems for billions of people. The study did however show increased carbon dioxide levels have generally helped plants and crops.	False	False	False	True	True
HuffPost has obtained a list of prominent climate deniers that the Heartland Institute a right wing think tank assembled and submitted to the agency in May. The Illinois based group which hasties to the fossil fuel billionaires who run Koch Industries boasted in July that the White House reached out for help identifying scientists for these debates. This appears to be the list the Heartland Institute provided. The names included on the list suggest that the Heartland Institute wants the debate to go directly after the scientific and legal underpinnings of the EPAs regulations on climate change. Rather than debating the regulatory approaches they want to undermine the conclusion that climate change is a real problem. But while Trump and Pruitt have begun rolling back regulations on greenhouse gas emissions so far they have not attempted to undo the 2009 finding that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases pose a threat to human health and the environment a conclusion known as the endangerment finding. It was the EPA under George W. Bush that first made that determination in response to a 2007 Supreme Court ruling but it never acted on that finding. The Obama EPA did and once that conclusion was reached the agency was required by law to issue regulations under the Clean Air Act. Ninety seven percent of peer reviewed research agrees with the conclusion that burning fossil fuels deforestation and industrial farms are enshrouding the planet in heat trapping gases and a research review published last November found significant flaws in the methodologies assumptions or analyses used by the 3 percent of scientists who concluded otherwise. Calls for the red team blue team exercise began in April one month before the date marked on the top of the documents.On April 20 the day before the March for Science protest in Washington D.C. New York University physicist Steve Koonin published an op ed in The Wall Street Journal calling for a red team blue team exercise to put the consensus to the test and improve public understanding through an open adversarial process. The next day Judith Curry a retired climatologist known for mocking other scientists as alarmists and Anthony Watts who runs a popular climate change denial blog endorsed the idea.The next week Pruitt met with Koonin for an hour according to schedules published by The Washington Post. The meeting included about 40 climate scientists economists lawyers and other experts to discuss the possible creation by the Trump administration of a Red Team Blue Team exercise on climate change he wrote. He noted this was the second Red Team briefing following an initial gathering on June 14 in Washington D.C. A final summit is scheduled for Nov. 8 the day before the Heartland Institutes America First Energy Conference in Houston. This seems to be the goal of the list which includes 145 scientists and 60 economists who have long been on the fringes of the climate debate making their names as contrarians given to bombastic public statements. In his email Bast said he assembled a list of around 150 climate experts which he sent to folks at EPA in response to their request for recommendations. A source who requested anonymity provided the list to the watchdog Climate Investigations Center which shared it with HuffPost. Aztec priests told people they must cut out their beating hearts to bring better climate for their crops. The people believed them he wrote in a December 2015 blog post. Todays climate priests tell people they must cut out their CO2 emissions and pay penances to other nations like China to save our climate. The people believe them. I would go right down to the core starting with the question How much do human emissions increase atmospheric carbon dioxide? Thats the first assumption the blue team makes and they have to prove that thats true he said. In my opinion the red team would win that debate on the carbon dioxide. Carlin spent decades as an economist working at the EPA before becoming a conservative media darling for publicly accusing the agency of muzzling his criticism of the endangerment finding. He was never assigned to work on climate change and holds a doctorate in economics not atmospheric science or climatology and his comments on the finding were deemed to be the product of rushed and at times shoddy scholarship according to a 2009 analysis by The New York Times. Yet he submitted the 93 page report suggesting the research behind human caused climate change is more religion than science.	True	True	True	True	False
It is a landmark deal that has been more than two decades in the making. Russia Iran Azerbaijan Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan all bordering the Caspian Sea have agreed in principle on how to divide it up. Their leaders signed the Convention on the Legal Status of the Caspian Sea in the Kazakh city of Aktau on Sunday. It establishes a formula for dividing up its resources and prevents other powers from setting up a military presence there. It is an important step in the easing of regional tensions but the deal over the world's largest inland body of water matters for several reasons. Here's what you need to know about the hotly disputed Caspian Sea. It would be reasonable to assume that the Caspian Sea is well a sea. But at the heart of this long running dispute is whether or not the 370000 sq km 143000 sq mile body of landlocked water should be considered a lake. Until the dissolution of the Soviet Union USSR in 1991 that's what it was known as and shared between the USSR and Iran. But the arrival on the scene of new countries complicated this issue with ensuing claim and counterclaim. Iran had argued it was a lake and not a sea but none of the four other countries agreed. Why is the difference so important? If it was treated as a sea then it would be covered by international maritime law namely the United Nations Law of the Sea. This binding document sets rules on how countries can use the world's oceans. It covers areas such as the management of natural resources territorial rights and the environment. And it is not limited to littoral states meaning others can seek access to its resources. But if it is defined as a lake then it would have to be divided equally between all five countries. Sunday's agreement goes some way to settling this dispute. The signed convention gives the body of water a special legal status which means it is not defined as a sea or a lake Russian officials said. The surface water will be in common usage meaning freedom of access for all littoral states beyond territorial waters. But the seabed which is rich in natural resources will be divided up. It's difficult to say as the final text of the deal is yet to be published. Another key factor is that seabed boundaries are yet to be negotiated although now it's the subject of bilateral agreements not multilateral as before. But because the deal does not define the Caspian as a lake Iran which has the smallest coastline is viewed as a potential loser. Iranian social media users have accused the government in Tehran of selling off the Caspian Sea on Sunday. However Iran which is currently under growing political and economic pressure from the West might see some political benefits in securing the clause that bars any armed presence on the Caspian other than that of the five littoral states. Had the Caspian been defined as a lake Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan who have established an early claim over large areas of the Caspian stood to lose out under such a split. So the basis of all previous disagreements stems from who gets access to what. This is important because... The Caspian Sea is highly prized for its vast oil and gas reserves. It's estimated there are 50 billion barrels of oil and nearly 300 trillion cubic feet 8.4 trillion cubic metres of natural gas beneath its seabed. That is why disagreements over how to divide some of its huge oil and gas fields have been numerous and acrimonious. On occasion warships have been deployed to scare off contractors hired by rival countries. The disagreement over its legal status has also prevented a natural gas pipeline being built across the Caspian between Turkmenistan and Azerbaijan. This would have allowed Turkmen gas to bypass Russia on its way to Europe. Russia a major exporter of gas and oil to Europe has previously objected to this. International oil companies that rushed to the Caspian in the 1990s have now pulled out. But there is a possibility this could be explored further following Sunday's deal. The Caspian Sea has a number of different species of sturgeon the fish that yields the highly prized delicacy caviar. Between 80 90 of the world's caviar is sourced from the Caspian but the numbers have been falling over the past few decades. In 2002 a survey found that the fish was rapidly disappearing and could soon become extinct. It also found an abnormally large proportion of young sturgeon in comparison to more mature fish which produce the eggs used to make caviar. In response various bans on sturgeon fishing in the Caspian Sea and on the caviar trade more generally have been introduced. Significantly Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev said on Sunday that the recent agreement allowed the setting of national quotas for fishing. The Caspian Sea has long suffered pollution from oil extraction and other industries. Oil pollution has affected the migration routes of sturgeon according to the UN's Caucasus Environment Outlook. It says sturgeon swim through highly polluted water near Azerbaijan's Absheron Peninsula and that is believed to limit their food and oxygen. A more recent concern is bacterial pollution caused by sewage from Iran which is adding to the threats facing sturgeon fish. The Caspian Sea's disputed legal status was also a risk factor for the environment as no enforcement would have been possible to deal with a major oil spill or other pollution incident in disputed waters.	False	False	False	True	False
A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit Friday targeting ExxonMobil on the basis that two California cities waging a legal battle could not prove the energy company was responsible for climate change in the state. District Judge William Alsup wrote that San Francisco and Oakland failed to prove that global warming would be substantially curtailed if the oil company did not operate inside California. His decision follows a ruling the judge made in June dismissing both cases on the grounds that Congress not the court system is responsible for addressing the emission of greenhouse gasses. It is manifest thatglobal warming would have continued in the absence of all California related activities of defendants Alsup wrote in his July 27 decision. Plaintiffs have therefore failed to adequately link each defendants alleged California activities to plaintiffs harm. Cities in Colorado Rhode Island and New York have also filed similar lawsuits against energy producers over the past year. They argue that Exxon and others should pony up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change. Many of the lawsuits have already been nixed. Alsup also suggested that climate change would be no better or worse even if Exxon were not operating in California. From all that appears in the amended complaints howeverthis worldwide chain of events Exxons oil production does not depend on a particular defendants contacts with California he said. Whatever sales or events occurred in California werecausally insignificantin the context of the worldwide conduct leading to the international problem of global warming. Trial lawyers with Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled climate lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings called a contingency fee.RELATED Trial Lawyers Handling Cities Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions Hagens Bermanstood to earn billions of dollarsin contingency fees depending on the total winnings from a favorable judgement against oil companies. The three cities claimed billions of dollars worth of damage from global warming induced by fossil fuels.	True	True	False	True	False
The survey commissioned by the progressive think tank Data for Progress and conducted online from Oct. 11 15 found even stronger support among young voters and people of color. Voters aged 18 29 ranked green jobs as their No. 4 priority and voters of color in that age range ranked it No. 3. In a Gallup poll last month just 1 percent of Americans including Republicans and independents as well as Democrats chose environmentpollution as the countrys most important problem from a list of dozens of issues. In a separate May 2017 Gallup survey just 2 percent of Americans listed create more green jobs as the best policy to increase employment in the United States compared to 19 percent who listed keep manufacturing jobs hereStop sending overseas. The findings come as the Trump administration is on the cusp of fully rolling back two of the most critical federal rules to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Next year the White House is planning a make a new push to build more oil and gas pipelines Larry Kudlow the presidents top economic adviser said at an event this month. Already at least six of the Democratic senators expected to run for president in 2020 are backing legislation to guarantee a job to every American worker who wants one. Its an idea roughly 46 percent of Americans support according to an April survey by Rasmussen Reports. Polling Data for Progress released in September pegged the number slightly higher at 55 percent of eligible U.S. voters but found that those opposed decreased from 23 percent to 18 percent when the guaranteed jobs are green. Even among Trump voters the September survey found support for guaranteed jobs is stronger when the jobs are green with 35 percent in support and 36 percent opposed. Without an environmental focus Trump voters in support of guaranteed jobs dropped to 30 percent with 45 percent opposed. Even in deep red counties in fossil fuel producing states support for requiring utilities to produce 20 percent of electricity from renewables averages well above 50 percent according to 2018 survey data from the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication. Support for providing tax rebates for energy efficient vehicles and solar panels soars well above 75 percent in most of those same counties. Adopting a green jobs plan could also help Democrats ease the tension between the partys labor and climate hawks. In August the Democratic National Committee backtracked on a two month old ban on fossil fuel donations. The move was a cave to unions that overwhelmingly support pipeline projects that pay much better than renewable energy jobs which tend not to use organized labor. Still the policy seems far off at best. Its difficult to imagine such a bill passing a Republican dominated Congress much less gaining Trumps signature. Democratic leadership has indicated it has no plans to push a major climate bill even if the party takes the House of Representatives in next months election. Yet theres a small contingent of left wing candidates including Wisconsin congressional candidate Randy Bryce and Kevin de Len the California lawmaker challenging Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein who are running on a so called Green New Deal a reference to the Great Depression era spending programs that established many of the nations infrastructure landmarks. Ocasio Cortez the democratic socialist expected to become the next U.S. representative for New Yorks 14th Congressional District likened climate change to the existential threat posed by Nazi Germany and the Axis. The last time we had a really major existential threat to this country was around World War II Ocasio Cortez said at a campaign event. And so weve been here before and we have a blueprint of doing this before. Climate scientists tend to agree. In July Penn State University climatologist Michael Mann called Ocasio Cortezs proposal for trillions in federal spending on a Green New Deal to be just the sort of audacious and bold thinking we will need if we are going to avert a climate crisis. Just three weeks ago a sobering United Nations report warned that world governments have just 12 years to halve emissions in order to avert cataclysmic climate change. And even then the researchers found that technologies to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere will be required to keep warming within 2.3 degrees Fahrenheit beyond which scientists say many densely populated places will become uninhabitable. Progress to mitigate climate change has been alarmingly limited. Despite the rapid construction of renewable energy infrastructure the United States the worlds largest per capita emitter is aggressively bolstering its fossil fuel production. Last year Trump announced the U.S. would withdraw from the Paris climate agreement which every recognized country on Earth has signed. Brazil the vast rainforests of which are critical to absorbing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere is poised to elect a president who vowed to ramp up deforestation and withdraw from the historic 2015 accord as well. China the worlds top national emitter is continuing to build new coal plants despite pledging to cancel the facilities.	True	False	False	True	False
Warmer temperatures are threatening American songbirds with dwindling numbers due to an inability to successfully breed a new study from Scientific Reports alleges. A team of researchers studied migratory patterns of songbirds between 2001 and 2012 and claimed that of the 48 North American songbird species that migrate north nine of these or almost 20 percent didnt reach the grounds by the deadline critical for mating and breeding the next generation of birds wrote Karla Lant in her summary of the report Plants in eastern North America are greening up sooner than normal because of global warming the report contends while plants in the western part of the continent are somehow undergoing the process later. This means that birds such as the Townsends warbler and the rose breasted grosbeak are arriving either too soon and being met with frigid temperatures or too late and missing out on the insect boom that coincides with the new plant growth Lant stated. Either way the birds have a much lower chance of surviving and reproducing the report alleges so the nine species identified are consequently in danger of dwindling numbers. As climate at the breeding grounds changes birds may be unable to adjust wintering ground departure times and transit speeds sufficiently to match their arrival with altered breeding resource phenology particularly leaf growth and the closely associated emergence of herbivorous insects the report warns. If attributing changes in migratory patterns of songbirds to global warming after a mere 12 years of observation strikes readers as highly suspicious thats probably because it is. Event attributionthe ability to link a given phenomenon to manmade global warmingis exceedingly speculative at best and completely unreliable at worst even according to true believers. At a meeting of climate scientists at Oxford in 2012 one participant argued that given the insufficient observational data and the coarse and mathematically imperfect climate models used to generate attribution claims they are unjustifiably speculative basically unverifiable and better not made at all. Nature Magazine felt compelled to conclude with unusual modesty that better models are needed before exceptional events can be reliably linked to global warming. Of course the purpose of studies such as these which remarkably continue to receive funding is ultimately practical rather than speculative. They are meant primarily not to inform but to exhort and to put pressure on policy makers to coerce human behavior change in accordance with climate change theory. As for the fate of these migratory birds that really depends on how far were willing to go to end manmade climate change Lants article predictably concludes. Climate change is projected to drive hundreds of bird species to extinction and greatly reduce the ranges of others the report prophecies and is already impacting species richness and composition.	True	False	False	True	False
White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders dismissed a major White House climate change report that some have used to criticize President Donald Trumps position on global warming. The report is not based on facts Sanders told reporters during a press conference Tuesday. She also arguedthat climate modeling of the kind researchers used in the National Climate Assessment report is never exact. We think that this is the most extreme version and its not based on facts she said. Its not data driven. Wed like to see something that is more data driven. Its based on modeling which is extremely hard to do when youre talking about the climate. The NCA report came from a team of 13 federal agencies and was cobbled together with the help of 300 scientists. They used a Representative Concentration Pathway adopted by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes IPCC fifth Assessment Report AR5 to make their conclusions. Continued use of coal and other fossil fuels will eliminate 10 percent of the GDP by 2100according to the report. The country will also be 3 to 12 degrees hotter depending on the level of greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere the report warns. It also suggests wildfires and hurricanes will increase as a result if the risk is left unchecked. The report is not without its controversies. One climate expert argues researchers used an unreliable climate model. University of Colorado Prof. Roger Pielke Jr. for instance criticized the researchers in a series of tweets Saturday for basing their modeling on a data that are likely to change dramatically over the course of the next 80 years. He says the NCAs second volume relies on the RCP8.5 one of the four possible pathways in the trajectory. RELATED A Top Line Claim In The Newest US Climate Report Relies On Research Tied To Major Democratic Donors This particular pathway is slowly being phased out of the IPCCs modeling becausescientists believethe model likely overestimates future supply of fossil fuels. Researchers used the most extreme example possible to sell the narrative that wildfires will get worse Pielke noted. He has criticized the medias handling of similar reports. NCAs dire prediction of a 10 percent hit to U.S. GDP comes froma 2017 study supported by the charitable foundations founded by major Democratic donors. The study was also funded by other organizations including theNational Science Foundation the U.S. Department of Energy and the Skoll Global Threats Fund. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	True	True
WASHINGTON Gasoline oil and other contaminants that threaten groundwater are seeping from more than 70000 underground tanks around the country but the federal aid that has helped address the problem could soon start drying up. The Trump administration is proposing to slash funding for the Leaking Underground Storage Tank program by nearly half next year from nearly 92 million this year to about 47 million in 2018. The recommended cut in the LUST program is part of the presidents proposal to reduce the Environmental Protection Agency budget by 31 next year. Funding for LUST is a drop inthe EPAs 8.2 billion budget. But state officials environmental activists and public health advocates warn that the size of the cut carries great risk considering groundwater is the source of drinking water for nearly half of all Americans. They say such a reduction would hamper monitoring prevention enforcement and cleanup of leaks as well as the important role EPA plays in providing technical assistance to state regulators and businesses many of them gas stations who have aging tanks and piping under their sites. In a letter earlier this year to congressional leaders the head of the trade organization representing state solid waste agencies said the cut would impedethe long term progress states have made on inspection and cleanup. The program has made great strides in increasing the number of compliant tanks in the last 25 years which has resulted in fewer releases wrote Dania Rodriguez executive director of the Association of State and Territorial Solid Waste Management Officials. Loss of program funding would reverse this trend. The Trump administration announced the proposed cut in May two months after the Department of Veterans Affairs officially recognized the harm contaminated water some of it linked to underground fuel tanks inflicted on hundreds of thousands of marines stationed at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina from 1953 through 1987. Under the VA program announced in March those who served at least 30 days in Lejeune during that period are eligible for treatment of eight diseases including several cancers and Parkinsons Disease. There are 558451 active tanks located in about 201000 sites nationwide according to the EPA's most recent tally. Most are service stations but they also include any operation where fuel is stored underground such as government fleet garages large retail operations like Costco stores that sell gas and institutions like hospitals or universities that store fuel to power emergency generators. Across the country thousands of underground storage tanks and accompanying pipes many of them made from older corroding steel hold and carry a variety of fuels and chemicals the Environmental Defense Fund wrote in a recent report. When tanks leak harmful chemicals such as oil gas benzene and toluene into soil and ground water drinking water and soil are fouled community health is jeopardized and economic development is crippled. The number of tanks with confirmed releases hit a high in 1995 with nearly 172000. But the backlog of sites needing to be cleaned up has been declining since 2000 according to EPA records. As of March 31 EPA reported 70094tanks with confirmed leaks. Some of these are not actively leaking but have residual contamination that needs to be cleaned up. Superfund cuts would lead to delays in toxic cleanups experts warn Florida leads the list of states reporting the most leaking tanks with 10421 followed by Michigan 8000 Illinois 5733 New Jersey 5100and North Carolina 4006. Site owners are ultimately liable for cleanup costs but a taxpayer funded trust fund is in place when sites must be addressed quickly are abandoned or when owners dont have the resources. The fund is financed by a 0.1 cent per gallon tax on gasolinewhich generated 202 million in 2016. Administration officials did not offer much explanation for the cut one of dozens proposed in the EPA budget. Historically the underground tank program has worked closely with our state territorial and tribal partners an agency spokeswoman wrote in an email. We know they are on the front lines to protect our land and groundwater from petroleum leaks such as those from gas stations and other underground storage tank facilities and we expect this partnership will continue to be a hallmark of the program. She wrote it would be premature for us to speculate about EPAs budget given that Congress has yet to finalize the agencys funding for next year. The House Appropriations Committee voted in July to restore almost all of the funding for the program but neither the full House nor the Senate has acted yet. The cost of cleaning up a site depends on a variety of factors including the extent of contamination and state cleanup standards. The average cleanup is estimated to cost 130000 but can rise to over 1 million if groundwater is infected. Ben Thomas a former tank inspector and state regulator in Alaska who now consults with private operators on meeting the inspection rules said cutting the program would hurt businesses that have come to appreciate the heavy stick of enforcement for bad players and the general community outreach. Slashing a program known for the collaboration between regulators and businesses and the effectiveness its achieved in reducing the backlog of leaking tanks would be crippling he said. At some point such a deep cut makes any agency effectively non responsive Thomas said. Theres simply not enough money to know what to prioritize. Stuff that makes a big stink like enforcement would probably get cut as would the ability for states to maintain a hotline maintaina web page or do workshops.I could easily imagine all that stuff would be kind of viewed as frivolous and go away because its not core statement message stuff.	False	False	False	True	False
WASHINGTON The Trump administration is moving to roll back the centerpiece of President Barack Obama's efforts to slow global warming seeking to ease restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions from coal fired power plants. In a plan expected to be made public in coming days the Environmental Protection Agency EPA declared the Obama era rule exceeded federal law by setting emissions standards that power plants could not reasonably meet. The Associated Press obtained a copy of the 43 page document which underscored President Trump's bid to revive the struggling coal industry. The EPA's new proposal would make good on Mr. Trump's campaign pledge to unravel Obama's efforts to curb global warming and follows Mr. Trump's promise to pull the United States out of the landmark Paris climate agreement. Nearly 200 countries have committed to combat global warming by reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming. The EPA won't prescribe an immediate replacement to the plan but will seek public comment on whether to curb climate warming emissions from coal and natural gas power plants. A spokeswoman for EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt declined to comment Friday on the authenticity of the leaked document but said the Obama administration pushed the bounds of their authority so far that the U.S. Supreme Court issued a stay to prevent the Clean Power Plan from taking effect. Any replacement rule that the Trump administration proposes will be done carefully and properly within the confines of the law EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman said. The plan was first reported by Bloomberg News. The Obama administration's cost benefits analysis of the Clean Power Plan was highly uncertain in multiple areas Bowman said vowing that the Trump administration will present a range of scenarios to the public in a robust open and transparent way. Obama's plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. The rule dictated specific emission targets for states based on power plant emissions and gave officials broad latitude to decide how to achieve reductions. The Supreme Court put the plan on hold last year following a legal challenge by industry and coal friendly states. Even so the plan has been a factor in a wave of retirements of coal fired plants which also are being squeezed by lower costs for natural gas and renewable power and state mandates promoting energy conservation. Repealing the Clean Power Plan without a timeline or a commitment to propose a rule to reduce carbon pollution isn't a step forward it's a wholesale retreat from EPA's legal scientific and moral obligation to address the threats of climate change' said former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy. While the Supreme Court has concluded that EPA is obligated to regulate greenhouse gases this administration has no intention of following the law said McCarthy who led the EPA when the Clean Power Plan was completed. They are denying it just as they are denying the science. They're using stall tactics to defer action ignoring the courts and the demands of the American people. Industry groups cheered the planned repeal saying it would reverse regulatory overreach by Obama and McCarthy. The Clean Power Plan represented an unlawful attempt to transform the nation's power grid ... and raise costs on American consumers said Hal Quinn president and CEO of the National Mining Association. The Obama era plan would have sharply reduced the number of coal fired plants making the grid more vulnerable to reliability concerns and increasing costs with trivial environmental benefits Quinn said. The new plan will save an estimated 240 million tons of annual coal production and safeguard more than 27000 mining jobs and almost 100000 additional jobs throughout the supply chain he said. In the leaked document the Trump administration argues that repealing the Clean Power Plan could spare an estimated 33 billion in compliance costs in 2030 arguing that the Obama administration overstated the rule's potential health benefits. Previously the EPA had estimated that by 2030 the Clean Power Plan would prevent 90000 asthma attacks and up to 3600 premature deaths a year. The leaked document casts doubts on those numbers and says the EPA plans to perform updated modeling and analysis of health benefits and other impacts of the rule. Liz Perera climate policy director for the Sierra Club said repealing the Clean Power Plan is about one thing and one thing only helping corporate polluters profit.	True	False	False	True	False
His environmental policy record in his home state is long. In 2015 he ordered Washingtons Department of Ecology to impose a cap on carbon emissions. He created a fund for clean energy and the state now has extensive solar energy infrastructure and electric buses. While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels Washington had the highest G.D.P. growth in the nation in 2018 according to the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis. Mr. Inslee also tried unsuccessfully last year to get the Washington Legislature to vote on a carbon tax which would have been the first in the nation voters rejected the proposal in November. He then proposed a different series of actions including running the states electric utilities fully on renewable power by 2045 requiring buildings to be more energy efficient promoting electric vehicles and cutting down on hydrofluorocarbons which are used in air conditioners. Hydrofluorocarbon emissions have been growing faster than any other form of greenhouse gas emissions. In an op ed in The Washington Post Mr. Inslee called for net zero carbon emissions nationwide by 2050 a longer timeline than the Green New Deals 10 years which experts say is unrealistic. Net zero could mean either eliminating carbon emissions altogether or reducing them and using offsetting technologies to cancel out the rest. He also called for a 100 percent clean energy grid and massive investments to transition buildings industries and transportation to renewable sources. While Mr. Inslee has made clear that he intends to focus overwhelmingly on climate change he is on the record supporting liberal policies in many other areas. He has been outspoken in favor of gun control and after the shooting in Parkland Fla. last year he confronted President Trump on live television denouncing Mr. Trumps suggestion to arm schoolteachers. Among other measures he wants to expand background checks and restrict some semiautomatic weapons. His advocacy on the issue goes back many years he lost his seat in Congress after voting for the 1994 assault weapons ban.	True	False	False	True	True
In fact its getting bigger scientists now admit. A University of Auckland study examined changes in the geography of Tuvalus nine atolls and 101 reef islands between 1971 and 2014 using aerial photographs and satellite imagery. It found eight of the atolls and almost three quarters of the islands grew during the study period lifting Tuvalus total land area by 2.9 percent even though sea levels in the country rose at twice the global average. Co author Paul Kench said the research published Friday in the journal Nature Communications challenged the assumption that low lying island nations would be swamped as the sea rose. We tend to think of Pacific atolls as static landforms that will simply be inundated as sea levels rise but there is growing evidence these islands are geologically dynamic and are constantly changing he said. The study findings may seem counter intuitive given that the sea level has been rising in the region over the past half century but the dominant mode of change over that time on Tuvalu has been expansion not erosion. If only theyd done their study a bit earlier they could have saved a lot of alarmists a lot of worry. Asrecently as last year anxious wonks produced a paper for the World Bank arguing that the situation in Tuvalu pop. 11000 and nearby Kiribati pop.107000 was so dire that Australia and New Zealand should open their doors to the fleeing refugees. According to the paper In 2007 Grist went so far as to cite Tuvalu of one of climate changes most tragic victims. Climate Change in Tuvalu even has its own Wikipedia page. It records possibly Tuvalus greatest moment of glory on the international stage when it seized the opportunity at the 2009 Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen to grandstand about its terrible plight. In December 2009 the islands stalled talks atUnited Nations Climate Change ConferenceinCopenhagen fearing some other developing countries were not committing fully to binding deals on a reduction in carbon emission their chief negotiator stated Tuvalu is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to climate change and our future rests on the outcome of this meeting.57When the conference failed to reach a binding meaningful agreement Tuvalus representative Ian Fry said It looks like we are being offered30 pieces of silverto betray our people and our future Our future is not for sale. I regret to inform you that Tuvalu cannot accept this document.58 Frys speech to the conference was a highly impassioned plea for countries around the world to address the issues of man made global warming resulting in climate change. The five minute speech addressed the dangers of rising sea levels to Tuvalu and the world. In his speech Fry claimed man made global warming to be currently the greatest threat to humanity and ended with an emotional the fate of my country rests in your hands.59 Tuvalus plightalso formed part of the basis for arguably the most hysterical fake news claim in the history of climate alarmism the UNs prediction that by the end of 2010 climate change would have created 50 million environmental refugees. The UN has since removed the claim from most of its websites. Happily it can still be glimpsed in the Guardian archives Rising sea levels desertification and shrinking freshwater supplies will create up to 50 million environmental refugees by the end of the decade experts warn today. Janos Bogardi director of the Institute for Environment and Human Security at the United Nations University in Bonn said creeping environmental deterioration already displaced up to 10 million people a year and the situation would get worse. There are well founded fears that the number of people fleeing untenable environmental conditions may grow exponentially as the world experiences the effects of climate change Dr Bogardi said. This new category of refugee needs to find a place in international agreements. We need to better anticipate support requirements similar to those of people fleeing other unviable situations. In reality the total number of environmental refugees fleeing climate change so far around the world is close to zero. But that hasnt stopped a few chancers from trying it on Seventeen people from the Pacific including 11 from Tuvalu and five from Kiribati have already made refugee claims in New Zealand citing climate change as part of their basis of claim. None have been successful four have yet to be determined and 13 have been rejected because the refugees convention does not recognise climate change as grounds for protection. Toclimate skeptics the fact that Tuvalu is not drowning will come as no surprise whatsoever. Their favorite sea levels expert Nils Axel Mrner has written numerous papers on the subject.	True	True	False	True	False
James Ooker Eskridge is the mayor of a town on an island disappearing in the Chesapeake Bay but rather than see it as evidence of global warming he used it to shut down Al Gores narrative that the seas are rising because of climate change. Eskridge faced the climate warming alarmist during a CNN town hall on global warming. Im a commercial crabber Eskridge said and Ive been working the Chesapeake Bay for 50 plus years. And I have a crab house business out on the water. And water level is the same as it was when the place was built in 1970. Im not a scientist but Im a keen observer and if sea level rises are occurring he asked why am I not seeing signs of it? Our island is disappearing he explained but its because of erosion and not because of sea level rising unless we get a seawall we will lose our island. But back to the question he said why am I not seeing signs of the sea level rising? What do you think the erosion is due to mayor? Gore asked. So youre losing the island even though the waves havent increased Gore said. Yes Eskridge replied his erosion has been going on since Captain John Smith discovered the island. Well arguments about science arent necessarily going to be any comfort to you and Im sorry for what youre going through Gore said. It wont necessarily do you any good for me to tell you that the scientists do say that the sea level is rising in the Chesapeake Bay he continued and that youve lost about two thirds of your island already over a longer period of time. And the forecast for the future is another two feet of sea if there was another two feet of sea level rise what would that mean for Tangier Island? Tangier Island our elevation is only about 4feet above level Eskridge said and if I see sea level rise occurring Ill shout it from the housetops we dont have you know the land to give up. But Im just not seeing it he said. Eskridges plight to save his island reached mainstream media attention when President Donald Trump called him after seeing a CNN report about the disappearing islands Trump supporting mayor. Trump reportedly told him to not worry about his island and that it would be there for many hundreds of years more. It wasnt clear if he addressed the seawall construction to save the island. Gore is currently making the rounds to publicize the sequel to his global climate documentary An Inconvenient Truth. Recentlyhe said that the global warming fight was in the same vein as great moral causes of humanity in the past like the Civil Rights cause of the 60s and abolition.	True	False	False	True	False
The last time Californian climate scientist Peter Kalmus was on an airplane was in 2012 He says it made him feel physically sick and like he was stealing from his children's future and vowed never to fly again. US President Donald Trump's administration has made no secret of its disdain for climate science but that hasn't stopped some ordinary Americans from finding ways to drastically reduce their own carbon footprints hoping to persuade others through their examples. Kalmus was pursuing his post doctoral studies in 2009 when he became increasingly concerned about the prospect of climate breakdown tipping points such as the thawing of the Earth's permafrost triggering runaway global warming that wreaks havoc on weather systems. I was shaking people by the lapels posting screeds on Facebook not really getting anywhere he told AFP in an interview from his home in a Los Angeles suburb. Eventually it dawned on me that I should maybe bring my actions into alignment with my beliefs. Drawing upon his expertise as a scientist he calculated the emissions associated with various aspects of his life and was surprised to learn that electricity consumption made up a tiny portion compared to air travel. So I started focusing on flying less. I tried being a vegetarian for a month and I liked it better he said quickly realizing that rather than feeling like sacrifices the changes he made were improving his sense of wellbeing. Some people like Tarek Maassarani take their philosophy to what others may see as extremes. The bespectacled 40 year old with long blond hair does paid consulting for the United States Institute of Peace and is an adjunct professor at two Washington universities but performs the bulk of his work in the volunteer sector. Two years ago he moved out of a co housing community in a Washington suburb when his two sons shifted to Utah to live with their mother and has been living between friends' houses ever since. Apart from relying almost exclusively on his bicycle for transport including deep into winter Maassarani is focused on avoiding buying new products because of the energy intensive nature of their production. He instead depends on hand me downs and I sort of extend the life of things well past what most people would do finding ways to keep tatty decade old cell phones and laptops going. He gets much of his food from dumpster diving or from the leftovers at buffets from conferences he attends describing himself as a supply and demand vegan. What this means is I don't buy any animal products I try not to create any demand signal for animal products he said. At the same time if meat is all that is left when he rummages through garbage or approaches buffets he makes it a point to go last he will consume it. Maassarani is quick to admit that his case falls well outside what most people could envisage and is made possible only by living in what he calls a consumption excessive society. I'm aware of course that if the excesses weren't there it wouldn't work but then again the problem wouldn't be there. Others like Elizabeth Hogan lead more conventional lives but are still re orienting themselves toward more carbon neutrality. Hogan who works as a consultant on mitigating the impact of ocean plastics on marine life just outfitted solar panels on the roof of her home in Washington. She and her husband estimate these will account for 80 percent of their energy needs with the balance coming from wind power bought at a premium from their electric provider. Both of our careers are very planet oriented so it's kind of our whole lives but I am certainly not claiming to be perfect she says conceding that they both fly extensively for work. Her love of cheese means she's a vegetarian rather than a vegan but sources her dairy from a nearby local farm that cleans and re uses glass bottles returned to them. But how impactful can individual action be in the absence of systemic changes from the top? After all the United States' current climate commitments are rated by Climate Action Tracker as critically insufficient in meeting the goal of limiting long term warming to two degrees Celsius above pre industrial levels. Kalmus who has written a book on his experiences said meeting critical goals to avert disaster will require a rapid cultural transformation and acts of individual defiance help achieve that. The reason everyone's waking up is because there's been this massive grassroots shift over the last year or two he said citing the global youth movement for climate action. One of the many ways people can contribute to that movement is by telling others about steps they have personally taken then when you say 'this is really urgent' your words are backed by the truth of your actions. Vegan is the new vegetarianwhy supermarkets need to go 'plant based' to help save the planet This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research no part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is provided for information purposes only.	True	True	False	False	True
The Wall Street Journals Kimberley Strassel issued a blistering critique of the proposed Green New Deal saying that the proposal reads like a parody of the Democratic Party done by Republicans. By the end of the Green New Deal resolution and accompanying fact sheet I was laughing so hard I nearly cried Strassel wrote on Twitter. If a bunch of GOPers plotted to forge a fake Democratic bill showing how bonkers the party is they could not have done a better job. It is beautiful. The Green New Deal pushed by freshman New York Democrat Alexandra Ocasio Cortez attempts to radically transform the country including rendering air travel obsolete move the U.S. to rely completely on renewable energy with net zero emissions and guarantee economic security even for people who are unwilling to work. OCASIO CORTEZ CONTRADICTS HERSELF ON ROLE OF GOVERNMENT IN MASSIVE AND UNPRECEDENTED 'GREEN NEW DEAL' But the sweeping proposal was hit with mockery once the details were unveiled on Thursday with many pointing out how unrealistic the suggestions are. Strassel pointed out that in order to live up to the proposals promise of 100 percent of renewable energy a space as big as the entire state of California would have to be dedicated solely for the facilities wind turbines and solar panels. The proposals suggestion of putting charging stations everywhere upgrading or replacing every building and developinghigh speed railway across every state may also hit a wall due to permitting laws. FULL TEXT GREEN NEW DEAL FAQ CALLS FOR ABOLISHING 'FARTING COWS' AND 'AIRPLANES' ASAP Strassel notes that the Green New Deal is far from just a proposal to curb emissions and create more environmental regulations its also about implementing radical left wing measures. Somehow government run healthcare family sustainable wages paid leave and affordable housing are also required for a clean economy the writer wrote. I would love to understand this logic. And imagine what wages will need to be to pay for billion dollar per kilowatt electricity. But even those pushing for the document arent sure it can actually be achieved within 10 years. In a now deleted FAQ page on Ocasio Cortezs website the document explains that its calling for an elimination of greenhouse gas emissions rather than an immediate ban on fossil fuels because we aren't sure that we'll be able to fully get rid of farting cows and airplanes that fast. Planes run on fossil fuel. No fossil fuel no visits to granny. Cows produce methane why alarmists want to get rid of livestock Stressel wrote. She can't do it fully in 10 years but AOC is coming after your air miles and bacon. This is honesty sp about how Democrats would micromanage private life. Lastly the Green New Deal which doesnt exactly reveal how it will be funded except for the suggestion that the Federal Reserve could step in and extend credit. CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP And how to pay for mass trillions in cost? Don't worry! Federal Reserve will just extend credit and new public banks can be created to extend credit too the writer tweeted. Because you know like money is just paper and how hard can it be to make some more of the stuff right? Right?	False	False	False	True	True
A coalition of states filed a legal challenge Wednesday against the Trump administrations decision to roll back a slew of Obama era climate regulations. The legal motion comes after Trump signed an executive order targeting climate change regulations ushered in by former President Barack Obama.The New York led group of states argue Trumps Environmental Protections Agency has a legal obligation to regulate emissions some climate scientists believe contribute to global warming. The law is clear the EPA must limit carbon pollution from power plants New York Attorney General EricSchneiderman who is leading the legal challengesaid in a statement.Other statesbehind the challenge include California Delaware Maryland and Massachusetts. The motion asks the District of Columbia U.S. Court of Appeals to toss out a request fromthe Trump administration for a delay in the court proceedings on an Obama era policy known as the Clean Power Plan. Trumps executive order was largely aimed at halting the Clean Power Plan whichrequired states to slash carbon dioxide emissions from coal power plants. The plan was never implemented however because it was challenged in court by 26 Republican led states. The Trump administrationsays this and other Obama era rules hinder the American economy and create a stultifying business environment. The coalition of states argued in a statement the delay would waste the substantial resources already expended in this litigation according to a statement from the group. Schneiderman hired Howard Master a prosecutor who served under an Obama appointed U.S. attorney to focus on corruption cases involving the Trump administration.Masters primary responsibility according to Schneidermans office will be investigating and possibly prosecuting the Trump administration for possible civil rights abuses. Schneidermans decision to hire Master may indicate the crusading AG plans to flood Trump and his administration with legal filings subpoenas and lawsuitsThe Wall Street Journal reported. Master will be working on a wide range of civil and criminal investigations and enforcement matters including public corruption complex civil litigation Eric Soufer a spokesman for Schneiderman told WSJ. Schneidermanhas made fighting what he calls man made global warming a crucial part of his duties as New Yorkstop law office. Hehas engaged in a months long investigation into whether Exxon Mobilillegally hid internal climate research from the public and shareholders. The Democrat based the bulk of his probes on research from left leading media outlets many of which receive funding from wealthy environmental groups. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	True	False	False	False	False
US crude oil and petrochemical refining capacity in Texas has been severely damaged by Hurricane Harvey releasing hazardous pollutants into the air and flood waters left in the wake of the storm. Arkema a global chemical major warned Wednesday that flooding has severely damaged their Houston plant's refrigeration systems increasing the likelihood of an explosion in the coming week and a heightened risk of yet more pollutants leaking into the ecosystem. At this time while we do not believe there is any imminent danger the potential for a chemical reaction leading to a fire andor explosion within the site confines is real Arkema said in a statement. Oil giant Exxon Mobil is among the companies to report incidents of emissions released at its refineries as a result of the hurricane which ransacked coastal parts of Texas and caused widespread flooding in the countrys fourth biggest city Houston. However the true extent of the air pollution will prove hard to determine for some time after the storm subsides as The Texas Council on Environmental Quality shut down all of its air quality monitors in the Houston area according to the Houston Press. This effectively means the affected companies can report whatever they wish without any oversight from the state regulators. Texas is also home to several so called superfund sites designated areas of extreme pollution which warrant further investigation according to the Environmental Protection Agency. As shown in the before and after maps below the vast majority of these toxic sites are now flooded in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey. On Wednesday Saudi owned Motiva shuttered its refinery in Port Arthur Texas the largest facility in the US which normally produces 600000 barrels a day. At least 13 other refineries in the area closed as a result of Harvey the US Department of Energy reported while others are operating at limited capacity. Exxon admitted there were issues at its plants in a regulatory filing to the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality. Its Baytown refinery near Houston the second largest in the country was shutdown on Sunday as Harvey moved inland. The refinery reported two controlled emission release events which included carbon monoxide nitrogen oxides sulfur dioxide and benzene being released into the atmosphere. The chemicals and pollutants released from refineries and plants in Texas petrochemical hub are known to have a damaging effect on the environment and could pose a risk of contaminating floodwaters left in the hurricanes wake. The petrochemical Benzene a carcinogen and major component in fossil fuels reduces red and white blood cell production and decreases auto immune cell function following prolonged exposure. While other emissions including sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides are particle forming air pollutants that contribute to cardiopulmonary health issues like lung cancer bronchitis and emphysema. In a third reported incident since Harvey made landfall in Texas Exxon said a floating roof over a tank in its Baytown refinery sank as a result of the rain causing unusually high levels of emissions to be released. Floating roofs are common in oil tanks and are a way to control how much oil is lost to evaporation by allowing the roof to move based on the amount of liquid in the tank. Exxon said it would conduct an assessment to determine the impact of the storm once its safe to do so the Washington Post reports. The company said it needed to make repairs on the tank which would involve first emptying it though Exxon could not confirm in what time frame. One of the companys other facilities in Beaumont east of Houston also released 1300lbs of sulphur dioxide in one hour on Sunday exceeding its allocated emissions limit by a factor of ten to one. Excess emissions occurred during an upset on the Sulfur Plant Thermal Oxidizer Exxon said in the report. The unit was stabilized. No impact to the community has been reported the company said. Actions were taken to minimize emissions and to restore the refinery to normal operations. Petrochemical giant Chevron Phillips reported an estimated 776000 pounds of combined chemicals released from its Cedar Bayou plant in Baytown as part of its plant shutdown. Kinder Morgan the largest energy infrastructure company in North America stores petroleum products for companies such as Chevron and Shell at its terminal in Pasadena Harris. It reported 394000 pounds of combined hazardous chemicals on Sunday and Monday also as a result of a malfunctioning floating roof. In this case it caused product to spill to the ground. Kinder Morgan said it will attempt to safely land roof of Tank 150 39 and remove product when conditions are safe. It added it was taking all necessary steps to prevent or minimize any increased risk to human health and safety and to the environment. Almost one third of US oil refining capacity is located on the Gulf Coast. The US produces about 17.5 million barrels of oil per day. According to oil market analysts cited by CNBC about 20 percent of the countrys oil refining operations are out of service. Ships carrying crude oil from the Mexican Gulf are not able to port in the area due to swelling waters caused by Harvey resulting in a backlog of ships waiting to dock and unload their cargo. The Gulf of Mexico accounts for close to 20 percent of total US crude oil production. CNBC estimates the port closures cost roughly 350 million a day. The port hold up also affects the amount of crude oil refineries have access to once they return to full operation. Gas prices across the US have already risen to a two year high with the increase likely to hit consumers at the pump in a week. It is unknown how long the refineries will remain out of production as the extent of flood damage is not yet known. Following Hurricane Katrina in 2005 refineries in the area didnt return to normal production capacity for two months.	False	False	False	True	False
Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audiences eyes at the climate change town hall literally as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half truths and excuses. The former Vice President was clearly floundering during CNNs climate change town hall on Wednesday which saw him face off against eight other Democrats. Viewers called him out for rambling incoherent answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry. Then his left eye began filling up with blood. At around the same time his campaign cautioned voters not to turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines an ironic coincidence or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event? Before Bidens eye exploded the audience had been raking him over the coals for a scheduled fundraiser the following night at the home of a natural gas executive. The three time candidate has never been particularly committed to green issues slammed by environmental groups for not having a climate change policy he finally released one in June that contained several plagiarized items. But he had along with most of the other Democratic candidates promised not to take money from the fossil fuel industry a promise the fundraiser seemed to break to viewers dismay. But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye. Look Biden haters sometimes your eye is gonna spontaneously fill up with blood okay one user joked. Twitter furiously deploying algorithms to keep Bidens bloody corpse eye from trending observed another it appeared to work while was trending and variations thereof were noticeably not. Apparently it wasnt even the first time Bidens eye has filled up with blood during an important political event. But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment. Not sure after tonight who has less time to live Biden or the planet said one. Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding commented another. I give it 14 minutes before Bidens campaign says his bloody eye was because of climate change predicted another. Meanwhile others made the inevitable comparisons to Hillary Clinton another candidate with a marked enthusiasm gap between donors and voters who has run for president and lost before yet is propped up by the media as the surefire winner. And some took time out from gawking to worry about his health since political speeches dont normally cause visible injury. Does Biden have a blood clot in his left eye? wondered one user. This cant be good news given his health history noted another. Like this story? Share it with a friend!	True	True	False	True	True
WASHINGTON The Senate on Thursday confirmed former coal industry lobbyist Andrew Wheeler to lead the Environmental Protection Agency despite concerns by Democrats and one Republican about regulatory rollbacks hes made in eight months as the agencys acting chief. Senators voted 52 47 to confirm Wheeler who was nominated by President Donald Trump after former administrator Scott Pruitt resigned last year amid a series of ethics allegations. Sen. John Barrasso R Wyo. chairman of the Senate environment committee called Wheeler uniquely qualified to lead EPA and said that under Wheeler the agency is putting forward proposals that both protect our environment and allow the countrys economy to flourish. But Sen. Tom Udall D N.M. said Wheeler was failing to protect the environment and human health and was nominated to unravel and undo the environmental protections that are now in place. Wheeler 54 was confirmed as deputy administrator last April and became acting chief in July after Pruitt resigned. He worked at the EPA early in his career and was a top aide at the Senate Environment Committee before becoming a lobbyist a decade ago. Maine Sen. Susan Collins was the sole Republican to oppose Wheeler. She said in a statement that unlike Pruitt Wheeler understands the mission of the EPA and acts in accordance with ethical standards. However the policies he has supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation. Collins said she was particularly concerned that EPA has proposed to roll back rules regulating mercury emissions from power plants and moved to replace the Clean Power Plan former President Barack Obamas signature proposal to combat climate change. There is no doubt that the greenhouse gas emissions driving climate change pose a significant threat to Maine and the nation Collins said adding that pollution from coal fired power plants threatens Maines natural resources from our working forests fishing and agricultural industries to tourism and recreation. VIDEO At his confirmation hearing in January Wheeler told lawmakers that climate change is a huge issue but not the greatest crisis. Video by PBS NewsHour Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia who supported Wheelers nomination as deputy last year voted against his promotion. Wheeler was not making meaningful progress on clean water standards Manchin said citing the agencys failure to limit the amount of highly toxic chemicals contaminating drinking water in West Virginia and around the country. The EPA has announced plans to place legal limits on the chemicals but has not yet done so. The perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances known collectively as PFAS have been linked to health threats ranging from cancer to decreased fertility. I believe immediate action must be taken and these efforts lack a sense of urgency Manchin said. Like Collins Manchin also said he was concerned at EPAs attempt to undo rules designed to limit emissions of mercury which can damage the brains of infants and young children. Environmental groups meanwhile slammed Wheeler saying that while his behavior is less cartoonish than Pruitt he supports the same policies. Wheeler wants to turn the EPA into a wish granting service for polluters no matter the cost to public health or wildlife. But its only a matter of time before his dirty dealings land him in the same trash heap as his predecessor said Emily Knobbe EPA policy specialist at the Center for Biological Diversity an Arizona based environmental group. Americas Power a trade group that represents coal producers applauded Wheelers confirmation. During his time as acting administrator Andrew Wheeler has been seen as a thoughtful leader who understands the need for sensible environmental policies said Michelle Bloodworth the groups president and CEO. Wheelers long experience in public service demonstrates his integrity in serving EPAs mission she said. READ MORE EPA announces plan for dealing with toxic chemicals in water announces plan for dealing with toxic chemicals in water 	True	True	False	True	False
Lawsuits are a poor way to make the tradeoff between abundant energy and environmental harm. Numerous jurisdictions are suing energy companies. Not for fraud or white collar crime but for the effects of climate change. Bill de Blasio mayor of New York recently added his city to the list and also started to divest the citys pension funds from fossil fuel companies. But the phenomenon is primarily a California centric one. In an address at SXSW earlier this month even Arnold Schwarzenegger joined the fray. Presumably this will soon be a cause clbre. But it is unlikely to succeed and lawsuits are a poor way to address the environmental harms of energy production anyhow. As David Bookbinder at the Niskanen Center notes while all of the complaints are grounded in the energy companies alleged accountability for rising sea levels they fall into two essential categories. San Francisco and Oakland allege public nuisance and are suing to win compensation for that nuisance. This is the usual category for environmental harm suits the same legal theory by which localities have sued over lead pollution water pollution and the like. It was also the basis for the successful legal action taken against lead paint producers in the same area. According to Bookbinder the claim simply requires demonstrating that the defendant contributed to a condition that constitutes an unreasonable interference with public rights. The other plaintiffs namely San Mateo County Marin County and Imperial Beach are employing a much more scattershot strategy not only in the number of defendants that they name nearly 40 but in alleging design defect failure to warn negligence and trespass in addition to public nuisance. This approach gives juries multiple routes to a ruling against the energy companies but it could backfire with so many claims being made against such a wide variety of defendants that none of the blows really land. So whats the problem? The Union of Concerned Scientists the activist group that has spearheaded this push for legal action has compared energy companies behavior with that of tobacco companies decades ago. The comparison reveals two fundamental issues with the suits. First unlike smoking energy is a basic good. Some form of energy is necessary to do just about anything including to meet essential needs such as heating or cooling a home which in some places is a genuine safety issue. There is an inherent tradeoff between affordable energy and environmental harm and it makes no sense to ask judges and juries rather than elected legislators to strike the right balance. Second a key allegation against cigarette companies was that they hid and denied the harms of smoking but the parallel allegations against the energy companies are contradictory. We are expected to believe that energy companies covered up the damage done by fossil fuels and yet publicly available industry funded research is cited as evidence that the companies were aware of the harms they were causing. For instance San Mateo Countys lawsuit notes that Exxon made its climate findings public in peer reviewed science journals by 1982. Another obstacle is the fact that energy companies have government granted permits to do what they do a fact that some courts have found highly relevant. In North Carolina v. Tennessee Valley Authority the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit dismissed a common law nuisance action on the grounds that there is a distinction between an activity that is merely not illegal versus one that is explicitly granted a permit to operate in a particular fashion. The opinion further notes citing New England Legal Foundation v. Costle that courts traditionally have been reluctant to enjoin as a public nuisance activities which have been considered and specifically authorized by the government. Local lawsuits also struggle to address the global scope of the climate change problem. According to a study that is often drawn upon to make the case for liability the two largest contributors to the rise in CO2 emissions since 1980 are Saudi Aramco and Gazprom the state owned oil companies of Saudi Arabia and Russia. The initial San Mateo suit did name Statoil a company majority owned by the Norwegian government as a defendant but even this was dropped in an effort to keep the case in state as opposed to federal court. As the eminent legal scholar Richard Epstein puts it If youre going to need a system of regulation you can do that in a thousand different ways but erratic independent lawsuits in separate courts by separate people is the wrong way to go. This approach is likely to cause backlash that derails real sustainable reforms to protect the environment.	True	True	True	True	True
Young students across the world plan to skip class on Friday claiming that they will devote the day to protesting man made climate change. Students from more than 70 countries will skip class on Friday March 15 to demand that their governments take more action on addressing climate change according to a youth led movement that is behind the strike. Tens of thousands of students will reportedly take part in the event. We will no longer accept this injustice. We demand justice for all past current and future victims of the climate crisis and so we are rising up read an open letter that the activists published on the Guardian claiming they would be protesting on every continent on Friday. Thousands of us have taken to the streets in the past weeks all around the world. Now we will make our voices heard. 350.org an international environmental group is helping bolster the strike with its own promotional video. Activists are hoping to closely mirror the youth led March For Our Lives protests in Washington D.C. which took place nearly a year ago following the fatal Parkland Florida school shooting and spark more debate among lawmakers about the dangers of climate change. Activists in the U.S. are making similar demands that are found in Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs Green New Deal a swift transition to 100 percent renewable energy a complete abolition of fossil fuels and other environmental mandates. The group strongly references the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes 2018 report which claims the world only has a few year to dramatically reduce carbon emissions or else face dire environmental consequences. RELATEDThousands Of Students Ditch Class To Join Climate Change Protests We have the right to live our dreams and hopes the letter continues. Climate change is already happening. People did die are dying and will die because of it but we can and will stop this madness. The protesters in Washington D.C. will enjoy the presence of one well known adult figure Minnesota Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar. The freshman Democrat who has made national headlines recently for a slew of anti Semitic remarks says she will attend the strike along with her 16 year old daughter Isra Hirsi an organizer of the protest. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	False	True	False	False
Speakers included 350.org founder Bill McKibben The Green Collar Economy author Van Jones activist and Big Little Lies star Shailene Woodley climate scientist Brenda Ekwurzel activist and musician Xiuhtezcatl Martinezand MayorDale Rossof deep red Georgetown Texas whose pragmatic embrace of newly cheap renewable energy has made him a poster boy for how Republicans could quit climate change denialism. Rep. elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. who has made championing a so called Green New Deal her first priority since arriving in Washington emerged as the fiercest voice on the panel Monday. This is going to be the Great Society the moon shot the civil rights movement of our generation she said. That is the scale of the ambition that this movement is going to require. In the 2016 presidential election Sanders staked out the most ambitious climate platform of any candidate vowing to slash carbon dioxide pollution 40 percent by 2030 end fossil fuel subsidies and ban fracking. Despite stark policy differences with his chief rival in the primaries former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton supported fracking and raisedtwice as much from the oil and gas industryas her Republican opponent climate change remained a policy backwater in the election.	False	True	True	True	True
Donald Trump is threatening to derail climate change efforts with his persistent denial of global warming claim scientists. Pulling the US from the Paris Agreement has opened the flood gates as several others including Russia and Turkey follow his lead. Trump removed the US the second greatest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the world from the Paris Agreement as one of his first major presidential acts. One expert has published a study and said that the withdrawal of the US from the 2015 Paris Agreement as well as Trump's ill informed remarks on climate change could have long lasting and severe ramifications. AUnited Nations sponsored climate summit in Poland has kicked off today which brings together experts from around the world as leading figures in the UN claim our planet has reached a 'crossroads'. They say the next two years are crucial to our success if we are to successfully halt global warming. A study fromthe Institute of International and European Affairs says Trump's decision has created the 'moral and political cover for others to follow suit' in leaving the agreement. It also claims it has soured the atmosphere and damaged goodwill in the international arena. 'The Paris agreement sent a shiver down the spine of institutional investors globally and made them question if they were exposed to stranded assets and whether these political leaders were really serious about climate change' saidJoseph Curtin a senior fellow at the IIEA. 'There's absolutely no doubt that the Trump effect has created a sense of uncertainty in terms of the political commitment to achieve anything close to a 2C target.' The Paris Agreement which was first signed in 2015 is an international agreement to control and limit climate change. It hopes to hold the increase in the global average temperature to below 2C 3.6F 'and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C 2.7F' Sir David Attenborough will be in attendance in the 'people's seat' to represent the people who are affected by global warming. He gave a speech at the opening ceremony of the summit and said We are facing a man made disaster of global scale. 'Our greatest threat in thousands of years. Climate Change.' The Conference of the Parties COP comes shortly after the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC announced the intention to limitglobal temperature rise to 1.5C. This gathering has been pegged as the most influential since the 2015 ratification of the Paris Agreement. It claimed that to achieve this goal governments around the worldwould have to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 45 per cent by 2030. Four influential previous presidents of the talks called for decisive action to reach these targets. They said the planet sits at a 'crossroads' and urged action to cut emissions and reach Paris targets. Antonio Guterres UN Secretary General said this period of time is'a matter of life and death' for countries around the world. A statement from the former chiefs came a day before the summit was scheduled to begin and is a highly unusual move. It earmarked the next two years as a key opportunity to help halt climate change. It read 'What ministers and other leaders say and do in Katowice at COP24 will help determine efforts for years to come and either bring the world closer to meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement including protecting those most vulnerable to climate change or push action further down the road. 'Any delay will only make it harder and more expensive to respond to climate change.' The statement was issued by Frank Bainimarama of Fiji Salaheddine Mezouar of Morocco Laurent Fabius of France and Manuel Pulgar Vidal of Peru. In a report released ahead of the climate summit in Poland the World Meteorological Organisation WMO pointed out that the 20 warmest years on record have been in the past 22 years. It found that 2018 is on course to be the 4th warmest year on record and we're the 'last generation to be able to do something about it'. The UN agency said in its provisional report that 'the past four years 2015 2016 2017 and 2018 are also the four warmest years in the series'.	True	False	False	True	True
The EPAs decision was not unexpected. During the 2016 presidential campaign Trump said the United States faces numerous problems more important than climate change and he pledged to eliminate environmental policies hampering economic growth and domestic energy development targeting the CPP by name. As part of Trumps March 28 Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth executive order Trump directed EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt to review CPP and rescind or revise it if necessary to promote the wise development of natural resources unencumber energy production and increase jobs. The EPA based the decision to rescind CPP on three main principles CPP is inconsistent with the 1970 Clean Air Act CPP violated states authority to decide the best mix of power generation within their borders and eroded longstanding federalstate partnerships necessary to achieve environmental improvement and enforcement of CPP would have had a devastating effect on jobs and raised energy costs for consumersall while having virtually no effect on climate change. CPP was the centerpiece of the Obama administrations effort to move the United States away from the use of fossil fuels beginning with coal to fight climate change. CPP would require states to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030 on average. To comply with the plan states would have to force utilities to shutter dozens of coal fired power plants prematurely. The Energy Information Administration projected CPP would result in 1.23 trillion in lost gross domestic product GDP in 2014 dollars from 2020 to 2030 with an average annual GDP loss of 112 billion. Estimates indicate CPP would boost peoples electric bills 1114 percent per year and cost more than 100000 jobs in manufacturing and other sectors annually. Despite these substantial harms the Obama administration acknowledged in testimony before the U.S. House Committee on Science Space and Technology on July 9 2015 that if the United States met CPPs emission reductions targets it would prevent at best one one hundredth ofone degree Celsius of temperature rise by 2100. Talk about all pain and no gain! Twenty seven states led by West Virginia and several industry groups and trade associations challenged CPPs legality in federal court. In February 2016 the U.S. Supreme Court took the unprecedented step of ordering a nationwide stay on implementation of CPP before it went into effect pending the outcome of the legal challenges. CPP would have dramatically raised energy costs in United States harming the poorest among us more than the rest and putting U.S. industries at a competitive disadvantage in the global economy. By rescinding it Trump is doing what he promised to do and what any president should do putting America first. Bravo! Having said this unless Trump wants these gains to unravel he has at least one more step to take. Environmental groups and some state government officials have already announced that if the CPP rescission is finalized they will sue to block the Trump administrations action to keep CPP on the books. In truth this presents a problem for Trump. CPP and the other climate regulations imposed by the Obama administration were justified based on the EPAs determination carbon dioxide poses a threat to human health and the environment a concept known as the endangerment finding. Relying on unsubstantiated projections produced by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change the EPA determined carbon dioxide emissions from cars and industry threaten human welfare. To solidify his CPP action and other climate deregulatory efforts Trump must direct the EPA to reconsider the endangerment finding by forcing the agency to demonstratethrough independent validated researchcarbon dioxide emissions are toxic they arent at any foreseeable levels or that global warming is causing measurable amounts of sea level rise increased hurricane numbers or intensity the spread of disease or other harms attributable directly to carbon dioxide emissions in the United States. If the EPA cant directly link such problems to U.S. carbon dioxide emissions it cant or cant show that such problems can be dramatically reduced by cutting U.S. carbon dioxide emissions they wont the EPA should withdraw the endangerment finding. Withdrawing the endangerment finding would eliminate the legal justification that has been used to impose a wide range of climate regulations. In the process it would also end radical environmental activists ability to use the courts to impose policies on an unwilling publicone whose elected representatives have repeatedly rejected climate alarmism. H. Sterling Burnett Ph.D. hburnett is a research fellow on energy and the environment at The Heartland Institute a nonpartisan nonprofit research center headquartered in Arlington Heights Illinois.	False	False	False	True	True
Rocks from northern Labrador have been found to contain the oldest known evidence of life on Earth. Graphite a form of pure carbon found in the 3.95 billion year old rocks shows the geochemical signature of having come from the decomposition of living organisms researchers report in a new study published today in Nature. That's at least 150 million years older than the oldest graphite from living organisms previously found in 3.7 billion to 3.8 billion year old rocks in Greenland and northern Quebec. It's also not much more than 500 million years after the Earth formed about 4.5 billion years ago. Some of the signatures in the Labrador rocks suggests that the organisms that left them were autotrophic that is they could produce their own food from chemicals in their environment as algae and some kinds of bacteria do report researchers led by Takayuki Tashiro and Tsuyoshi Komiya at the University of Tokyo. The discovery suggests not only that there may have been life but there may have been abundant enough life that you could get carbon rich sediments said Beth Ann Bell a geochemist at the University of California Los Angeles who was not involved in the study but called the findings pretty cool. It adds to evidence that the Earth at that time had surface water and other conditions to support life and wasn't as hot and as inhospitable as scientists used to think said Daniele Pinti a geochemist at the University of Quebec at Montreal. He was also not involved in the study but supervised one of the co authors Pauline Mjean during her PhD in Canada. Pinti said that researchers have been increasingly interested in the rocks of the Uivak Gneiss in the Saglek Block of northern Labrador in recent years because they contain some of the oldest rocks on the surface of the Earth. Such old rocks are very rare because the Earth's crust is constantly being recycled back into the planet's interior through a process called plate tectonics. The Labrador rocks are likely a small patch that remains from a very ancient continent Pinti said It's a very special place. Because such rocks are so rare very little is known about the Earth at that time although it's known that the interior of the Earth was much hotter than it is now and there is some evidence of liquid water on the surface. Were there ponds? Were there oceans? That's uncertain Bell said. What makes the Labrador rocks particularly special is that they are the oldest known metasedimentary rocks in the world. That is they were originally formed from sediments deposited by water the type of environment that decaying organic remains often end up in said Bell. The meta part of the word indicates that the rocks have been metamorphosed or transformed by heat and pressure over time They've been cooked pretty well Bell explains. That makes them harder to analyze but not impossible. Graphite the dark substance found in pencil leads can be formed from chemical reactions of inorganic minerals such as limestone. But it can also be formed when decaying organic matter gets heated up to several hundred degrees. Scientists can tell the difference by looking at the type of carbon found in the graphite. Carbon atoms come in different isotopes or forms with different masses carbon 12 carbon 13 and carbon 14 which you may have heard of because it's used in radiocarbon dating. Carbon 12 is the most common and the kind that organisms tend to disproportionately take into their bodies. That means graphite that comes from living things tends to be lighter than graphite from inorganic sources. To figure out whether graphite came from a living or non living source researchers use instruments to compare the ratio of carbon 12 to carbon 13. Of course things get more complicated when the graphite has been exposed to heat and pressure which can change the carbon ratios. There's also the possibility that the rocks could have become contaminated in the nearly four billion years after they were formed. But the researchers took great pains to test for contamination account for the exposure to heat and pressure and extrapolate back the original ratios Pinti said. For the moment it looks very convincing he added. Pinti said one interesting thing about the carbon signature is that it can indicate not just whether the graphite came from living organisms but what kind of metabolism those organisms had. The researchers write that the ratio found in one sample provides the oldest evidence for autotrophs organisms that can produce their own food either through photosynthesis or by using inorganic compounds such as sulphur in their environment. In this case the organisms appear to use a metabolic pathwaysimilar to modern microbes that turn carbon dioxide into methane and acetate. And they say their work could be relevant to places beyond our own planet that may have harsher environments than today's Earth. The discovery will provide insight into early life not only on Earth but also on other planets.	False	True	False	True	True
Washington CNN Since the Trump administration released its blockbuster report on the day after Thanksgiving outlining the dire environmental and economic impacts of climate change it has made a series of policy and diplomatic decisions or statements that appear to run counter to all of the warnings in the report. In fact none are designed to reduce fossil fuel emissions which the report said is needed to combat extreme climate change which otherwise will cause substantial damages to the US economy environment and human health and well being over the coming decades. President Donald Trump who previously has called climate change a hoax has rejected the report's conclusion that climate change could be devastating for the economy saying I don't believe it. Here's what the administration has said and done since Thanksgiving EPA acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler said the carbon capture technology required by the Obama era made constructing new power plants too expensive. But the decline of coal for power plants has been a long term trend regardless as the energy industry has moved to less expensive sources such as natural gas. Environmentalists worry the proposed rule suggests the EPA will set new standards that would weaken the requirements that the agency uses to regulate other types of pollution. The administration may be trying to lower the bar significantly for future new sources of pollution that the EPA tries to regulate said Mary Anne Hitt senior director of the Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign. Sides with Russia Saudi Arabia and Kuwait at climate conference Considering Trump announced the US would walk away from the Paris climate agreement which brought together the rest of the world it's no surprise the US continues to be an outlier on the international stage. Countries were asked to welcome the report put out by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change which says governments around the world must take rapid far reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society to avoid disastrous levels of global warming. The US and the three other nations sided against welcoming the measure. The United States was willing to note the report and express appreciation to the scientists who developed it but not to welcome it as that would denote endorsement of the report the State Department said in a statement. As we have made clear in the IPCC and other bodies the United States has not endorsed the findings of the report it added. At the recent G20 meeting in Argentina which came just days after the release of that dire climate report US diplomats insisted on noting that the US reaffirmed its intention to withdraw from the Paris accord. A clause in a communique signed by the member nations says the US reiterates its decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and affirms its strong commitment to economic growth and energy access and security utilizing all energy sources and technologies while protecting the environment. When the US Geological Survey last week announced a major discovery of oil and natural gas underneath Texas and New Mexico Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke called it a gift. Christmas came a few weeks early this year he said. American strength flows from American energy and as it turns out we have a lot of American energy. Zinke's position involves the dual and sometimes competing roles of overseeing leases to develop resources such as oil natural gas and minerals and preserving federal lands for wildlife and human recreational uses. The Interior Department proposed to cut protections that benefited the sage grouse a grassland bird that lives in the Great Plains and western states which could allow for expanded oil and drilling. The plan would remove protections on nearly 9 million acres of protected habitat. The oil industry says any impacts minimal because of improved technology and more limited footprint needed for exploration.	True	False	False	True	False
President Trumps claim that Californias environmental policies are preventing firefighters from accessing enough water to stop the states wildfires has been roundly dismissed by experts and state officials. Windy conditions and high heat expanded the Mendocino Complex Fire to 290692 acresby Tuesday morning making it the largest wildfire in the states history destroying some 75 homes and forcing thousands to evacuate. Seven other major wildfires are burning in California from Shasta County to San Bernardino County at the same time. Trump made the dubious claim that readily available water is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean for environmental reasons and blamed California Gov. Jerry Brown in a series of tweets. California wildfires are being magnified made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which arent allowing massive amounts of readily available water to be properly utilized. It is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire from spreading! Trump tweeted on Monday. Yahoo News reached out to Scott McLean a deputy chief at the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection Cal Fire to get the agencys take on Trumps claims and whats actually happening in the efforts to stop the Mendocino Complex and other wildfires. He outright rejected the assertion that firefighters do not have enough water to handle the current wildfires. No that is untrue. There are bodies of water. There are lakes near the Carr Fire the Shasta Lake the Whiskeytown Lake thats surrounded by the fire Trinity Lake we have plenty of water Sacramento River is just to the east McLean said. On your Mendocino Complex its wrapped around Clear Lake. Its got Mendocino Lake Berryessa Lake and it has a river close by so there are absolutely no water issues. We asked why Trump was saying that the states water is being redirecting into the ocean and where that idea originated. I cannot speak to that. I dont know what hes getting at. I have no idea McLean said. He added that Californias water policy has had no effect to our water supply. On top of calling climate change a hoax Trump has been critical of the U.S. Forest Services forest fire prevention campaign with Smokey Bear. Kate Poole the senior director of the Natural Resources Defense Councils NRDC water division said its hard to know where to begin in responding to Trumps tweets because theyre fundamentally wrong on many levels. She said the firefighters have plenty of water adding that the fires are a manifestation of the effects of climate change. These fires are what it means in the West to live with higher temperatures less snowpack and more frequent and intense droughts. All of those problems are a result of climate change. Wheres the presidents outrage about that? Wed even settle for a coherent policy to tackle it rather than make it worse Poole told Yahoo News. She said Trump in complaining about water diverted to the Pacific seems to not understand that rivers flow downhill toward the ocean. On the contrary she said California diverts so much water from its natural path and into artificial canals that many miles of rivers have dried up completely. She said this caused ecological collapse in the San Francisco Bay Delta estuary the largest estuary on the west coast of the Americas.	True	False	False	True	True
As protesters prepare for nationwide demonstrations against Donald Trumps environmental agenda Bernie Sanders on Thursday backed legislation that would phase out the use of fossil fuels in the US by 2050. Mr President start listening to the people and the scientists not the greed of the fossil fuel industry Sanders said at a rally on Capitol Hill where he was flanked by environmental advocates and two of his Democratic colleagues Senators Jeff Merkley of Oregon who authored the bill and Ed Markey of Massachusetts. As you all know the Vermont senator and former presidential candidate told the crowd Donald Trump is wrong about a lot of things. But there is no area where he is more wrong than on the issue of climate change. Sanders added No Mr President climate change is not a hoax. Climate change is real. At the event held just outside the US Capitol Sanders Merkley and Markey unveiled legislation which seeks to completely phase out the use of fossil fuels through a transition to 100 clean and renewable energy by the middle of this century. But the bill called the 100 by 50 Act is unlikely to be considered by a Republican controlled Congress where many GOP lawmakers are still unwilling to acknowledge the science behind global warming and contribution of human activity. The partisan nature of the debate was not lost on the audience as one attendee interrupted the proceedings to ask Where are the Republicans? Were going to have to recruit those colleagues across the aisle said Merkley who ranks among the Senates most progressive voices. This is not a red or a blue issue he said. There is no excuse for failure. This is the biggest test facing human civilization and we have to respond and win this battle. Demonstrators are set to gather in Washington for the Peoples Climate March on Saturday which will also mark the 100th day of the Trump administration. Similar marches are expected in major cities across the US as part of a broader effort to oppose Trumps efforts to roll back the climate initiatives put in place by Barack Obama. The president has signaled his intentions to tear up the landmark Paris climate agreement forged by more than 195 nations in late 2015 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 26 to 28 over a decade. Trumps top aides who are split on whether or not the US should remain part of the Paris accord were scheduled to meet on Thursday afternoon to discuss the deals future. Trumps chief of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt is a vocal proponent of pulling out immediately. Trump has vowed to withdraw from the Paris agreement and has already taken steps through executive action to begin the process of overturning Obama era environmental regulations. Among them was a directive to the EPA to dismantle the Clean Power Plan one of Obamas signature climate policies to reduce carbon pollution from power plants. Trump also signed an executive order that aims to unravel the Obama rule designed to protect American waterways from pollution and proposed in his budget draconian cuts to the EPA. At the rally Markey said Trumps actions were precisely why hundreds of thousands of people felt compelled to take to the streets. Donald Trump is still saying that hes going to issue a new executive order allowing for more oil drilling on the public lands of the United States of America he said drawing jeers for the president from the crowd. That is just completely and totally unacceptable.	True	False	False	True	False
The Trump administration has escalated its fight with California over environmental regulations. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Andrew Wheeler sent a letter Monday to the California Air Resources Board threatening to withdraw billions of dollars in federal highway money unless the state clears a backlog of air pollution control plans. California has the worst air quality in the United States with 82 nonattainment areas and 34 million people living in areas that do not meet National Ambient Air Quality Standards Wheeler wrote. California's population topography weather and other factors do worsen air pollution there but the state also is widely recognized as a leader in improving air quality. Under the Clean Air Act states that don't meet federal air quality standards are required to submit State Implementation Plans. Wheeler says California represents a disproportionate share of the backlog of such plans. Since the 1970s California has failed to carry out its most basic tasks under the Clean Air Act said Wheeler. He then laid out the penalties for failing to meet federal requirements which include losing federal highway dollars. California is expected to receive about 8 billion in fiscal years 2019 and 2020. The Trump administration has been picking fights with California over environmental regulations recently. Last week the administration said it will revoke a waiver that allows California to set stricter car emission standards. A senior EPA official said the two actions were not linked and that California is the focus now because it represents the largest share of backlogged plans. Even though other states have similar backlogs the administration has not sent letters to them. Gov. Gavin Newsom has been critical of President Trump's environmental record and challenged the administration in court. Newsom called Wheeler's letter a brazen political stunt. The White House has no interest in helping California comply with the Clean Air Act to improve the health and well being of Californians. This letter is a threat of pure retaliation Newsom says. Former EPA officials say they were surprised Wheeler sent the letter to California. I just think it's so ironic that the EPA is chastising California which has been so progressive in working towards cleaner air more than any other place in the country says Janet McCabe who was an EPA official during the Obama administration and now directs Indiana University's Environmental Resilience Institute. McCabe says it's unusual for the EPA to publicly criticize a state in this way. She says typically the agency would communicate with a state privately and work out differences to encourage a cooperative rather than adversarial relationship.	False	True	False	True	False
The US Environmental Protection Agencys main climate change website is undergoing changes to better reflect the agencys new direction under Donald Trump. The announcement made late on Friday evening left empty what was previously the official government site providing comprehensive information on the issue of climate change and global warming. The change came a day before thousands gathered in Washington DC and other US cities to protest about inaction on climate change and hours before the symbolic 100 day mark of the Trump administration. At the marquee climate protest the Peoples Climate March in Washington tens of thousands made their way down Pennsylvania Avenue in sweltering heat on their way to encircle the White House. Organizers said about 300 sister marches or rallies were being held around the country including in Seattle Boston and San Francisco. In Chicago marchers headed from the citys federal plaza to Trump Tower. In Denver marchers were met with a dose of spring snow. Some of the marches drew celebrity attendees including former vice president Al Gore and actor Leonardo DiCaprio in the capital and senator and former candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination Bernie Sanders at an event in Montpelier Vermont. Honored to join Indigenous leaders and native peoples as they fight for climate justice DiCaprio tweeted. Any marchers who used their phones to look at the EPA climate change website would have been greeted with a message from the new administration This page is being updated. As EPA renews its commitment to human health and clean air land and water our website needs to reflect the views of the leadership of the agency said JP Freire an associate administrator for public affairs. Previously the website housed data on greenhouse gas emissions from large polluters and reports on the effects of climate change and its impact on human health. We want to eliminate confusion Freire said by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how were protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law. Information from previous administrations is archived as a link from the EPAs website. The EPA is currently led by Scott Pruitt a former Oklahoma attorney general who has denied that carbon dioxide causes global warming. The Trump administration has called for budget cuts of nearly one third at the EPA and has sought to weaken protections for human health. For instance the White House has proposed cutting funding and regulations regarding lead poisoning prevention and is considering rewriting regulations concerning smog. It has already rolled back a law that prevented coalmining companies from dumping waste in streams. In an op ed piece for the Guardian published on Saturday Sanders made an economic case for a focus on industries meant to ameliorate the effects of climate change rather than those which contribute to it. The senator from Vermont wrote No matter what agenda President Trump and his administration of climate deniers push it is clear that jobs in clean energy like wind and solar are growing much more rapidly than jobs in the coal oil and gas sectors.	True	True	False	False	False
In April for the first time ever the US produced more energy from renewable sources than from coal in a single month. According to data from the US Energy Information Administration hydroelectric dams solar panels and wind turbines generated 68.5 million megawatt hours of energy during the month of April 2019. This was compared to 60 million megawatt hours of energy produced from coal in the same month. The trend comes despite President Donald Trump pledging to 'bring back' the coal industry which has been hit hard by competition from cheaper natural gas and renewable energy. The US has been shifting toward natural gas which is not only cheaper than coal but also emits less carbon dioxide. However experts noted that several coal plants were down for routine maintenance in April and the month saw an increase in wind generation and a drop in energy demand. This suggests that coal could easily take over from renewable sources in the following months. Despite this areport from the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis IEEFA said that the trend could potentially extend into the month of May. The trend will happen sporadically throughout the next several years says the IEEFA as renewable energy becomes cheaper and the world's attention focuses on mitigating the effects of carbon fueled climate change by turning away from fossil fuels. Growth in both solar and wind power has been particularly stark with the former producing 48 times more electricity than it did a decade ago due to cheaper equipment and government incentives. Coupled with a rise in renewables has been a trend of declining coal consumption. Last year coal hit a nearly 40 year low in terms of proportional usage in the U.S. Coal has fallen out of favor in part due to decreasing costs of natural gas. In 2016 it was dethroned as the America's fuel of choice by natural gas a feat aided in part by a thriving hydro fracking industry that continues to pump abundant fossil fuels out of the Bakken Oil Shale in North Dakota. The Trump administration on Wednesday completed one of its biggest rollbacks of environmental rules replacing a landmark Obama era effort that sought to wean the nation's electrical grid off coal fired power plants and their climate damaging pollution. Environmental Protection Agency chief Andrew Wheeler a former coal industry lobbyist signed a replacement rule that gives states leeway in deciding whether to require efficiency upgrades at existing coal plants. Wheeler said coal fired power plants remained essential to the power grid something that opponents deny. 'Americans want reliable energy that they can afford' he said at a news conference. There's no denying 'the fact that fossil fuels will continue to be an important part of the mix' he said.	True	True	False	True	False
Much of Venice was left under water this week after the highest tide in 50 years ripped through the historic Italian city AFP PhotoFilippo MONTEFORTE Venice AFP Italy on Thursday declared a state of emergency for Venice after an exceptional tide surged through churches shops and homes causing millions of euros worth of damage to the UNESCO city. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said the cabinet had approved the state of emergency and ordered the immediate release of 20 million euros 22 million in funds for the most urgent interventions in the devastated city after Tuesday's flooding. Despite the emergency tourists larked around in the flooded St Mark's Square in the sunshine snapping selfies in their neon plastic boots and taking advantage of a respite in bad weather which has driven the high tides. Sirens warning of fresh flooding rang through the canal city early Thursday but the water level remained low compared to Tuesday's tide the highest in 50 years. Conte who has called the flooding a blow to the heart of our country met Venice's mayor and emergency services before jumping in a speed boat to visit businesses and locals affected by the tide. Residents whose houses had been hit would immediately get up to 5000 euros in government aid while restaurant and shop owners could receive up to 20000 euros and apply for more later he said. Several museums remained closed to the public on Thursday. As authorities assessed the extent of the damage to Venice's cultural treasures such as St Mark's Basilica where water invaded the crypt locals were defiant. Many stopped for their habitual coffees at flooded bars drinking their espresso while standing in several inches of water. Austrian tourist Cornelia Litschauer 28 said she felt mixed emotions seeing Venice's famous square half submerged. For the tourists it's amazing it's something to see. But for the people who live here it's a real problem Litschauer said cradling her white Chihuahua Pablo. It's strange. Tourists are taking pictures but the city is suffering. The Locanda Al Leon hotel said its bookings had suffered from the international media coverage of the flood with some guests cancelling their rooms after seeing images of Venice underwater. Under the arches of the Ducal Palace a couple from Hong Kong posed for photos in the chilly morning sun. This trip was planned a long time ago so we couldn't change it groom Jay Wong 34 said. Actually this is a good experience. It's an adventure. Tuesday's acqua alta or high waters submerged around 80 percent of the city officials said. Only once since records began in 1923 has the water crept even higher reaching 1.94 metres in 1966. Former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi arrived for a private tour of the damage sustained to the basilica while rival leader of the Italian right Matteo Salvini was due to drop by for the same on Friday. French tourist Manon Gaudre 22 said seeing Venice submerged was a unique experience. The damage it's causing to monuments and the people is worrying she said wondering if climate change was to blame. Many including Venice's mayor have blamed the disaster on global warming and warned that Italy a country prone to natural disasters must wake up to the risks posed by ever more volatile seasons. We need to be resilient and adapt. We need a policy that looks at the climate through completely different eyes Environment Minister Sergio Costa said Thursday. Mayor Luigi Brugnaro has estimated the damage to Venice at hundreds of millions of euros. The Serenissima as the floating city is called is home to a mere 50000 residents but receives 36 million global visitors each year. A massive infrastructure project called MOSE has been under way since 2003 to protect the city but it has been plagued by cost overruns corruption scandals and delays. This engineering solution that will end up costing nearly six billion euros has got to work Transport Minister Paola De Micheli said. The plan involves 78 gates that can be raised to protect Venice's lagoon during high tides but a recent attempt to test part of it caused worrying vibrations and engineers discovered it had rusted.	True	True	False	True	True
It was not hard for Beto ORourke to seem like a champion of green issues during his eye catching Senate campaign in Americas 2018 midterm elections after all he was up against Ted Cruz a climate change denier. Now as the former US congressman vies to be the Democratic candidate to run against Donald Trump in the 2020 race for the White House he faces much closer scrutiny on the subject. Environmental advocates and experts wait to see if as ORourke pivots from an election in a conservative led oil state to a national primary race heavily influenced by left leaning Democratic candidates he will have more latitude and desire to put progressive green policies at the heart of his strategy. He didnt really emphasise climate change and global warming very much when he was running against Ted Cruz but hes got a field that is absolutely filled with people who are making it a campaign item for voters to consider and I think hes going to have to adjust his narrative when hes out on the trail said Robert Forbis an assistant professor of political science at Texas Tech University. Hes going to have to take a pretty strong stand. The seeds of a decisive and urgent approach were visible in his first campaign visits to Iowa in March when ORourke praised the radical climate change led proposals in the Green New Deal citing his home states struggles with extreme weather such as droughts and hurricanes. Storms like Harvey are only going to become more frequent and more severe and more devastating and ultimately theyll compromise the ability to live in a city like Houston Texas he told the audience. ORourke signalled support for reducing the countrys dependence on fossil fuels and investing in green technology to reach net zero emissions. Some will criticise the Green New Deal for being too bold or being unmanageable. Ill tell you what I havent seen anything better that addresses the singular crisis we face a crisis that could at its worst lead to extinction he said. Literally the future of the world depends on us. Cruz held his Senate seat with a narrow win over ORourke last November. The Republican has dismissed climate change as a pseudoscientific theory and wrote an opinion article in 2017 urging Trump to rip up the landmark Paris climate agreement. ORourke meanwhile wrote a blog backing the Paris accord and during six years in Congress he successfully worked to secure federal protection for more than 7000 acres of mountainous land on the outskirts of his native El Paso. The League of Conservation Voters National Environmental Scorecard gives Cruz a lifetime rating of 4 based on his voting record in Congress ORourkes score is 95. Still ORourkes history on environmental issues is more complex than that number might suggest perhaps unsurprisingly for a politician who hails from west Texas. Texas has more installed wind power capacity than any other state and solar power is growing. But the states economy is heavily dependent on the fossil fuel industry which also wields immense political clout. ORourke received 476325 in campaign contributions from oil and gas sources in the 2017 18 election cycle according to the Center for Responsive Politics second nationally to Cruz albeit not from Pacs and a small percentage of his total donations. This helped fuel accusations that ORourke is more of a fossil fuel ally than his lofty rhetoric might imply. The Sludge an investigative website reported last December that ORourkes Senate campaign failed to comply with a pledge not to knowingly accept contributions of more than 200 from the oil and gas industry. ORourke has not yet signed up to the pledge for 2020. Already five declared presidential candidates have officially signed the No Fossil Fuel Money pledge meaning more than a third of declared Democratic candidates have done so said David Turnbull strategic communications director of Oil Change US a group that urges politicians to commit to clean energy. We look forward to the sixth candidate signing the full No Fossil Fuel Money pledge and were hopeful that Beto might be that candidate. ORourkes campaign did not respond to questions about whether he plans to sign the pledge or how his qualified support for natural gas is compatible with the Green New Deal. In 2015 ORourke twice voted to repeal the nationwide ban on exporting crude oil internationally arguing that lifting the prohibition would boost the economy and national security. We have seen the result which is an emergency of booming fossil fuel production here in the United States at precisely the time we need to be urgently moving away from those dirty fuels Turnbull said. Similarly problematic Beto has pointed to fracked natural gas as a potential part of the solution to the climate crisis when the reality is that there is simply no room for new fossil fuel development of any sort including fracked gas. Like with his support for the removal of the crude export ban we hope that when Beto lays out his full climate policies it will reflect the fact that we cant afford any new fossil fuels of any sort including gas. Given Texass critical importance to the environmental and economic future of the country a Texas presidential candidate can deliver a powerful green narrative said Luke Metzger executive director of Environment Texas an advocacy group. I think Texas has a real interesting story to tell in terms of our both being number one in the country for global warming pollution but also being number one for renewable energy he said. To be able to come from Texas and show we can reduce our pollution we can invest in clean energy I think thats a strong message.	True	False	False	True	False
Humans must drastically alter food production to prevent the most catastrophic effects of global warming according to a new report from the United Nations panel on climate change. The panel of scientists looked at the climate change effects of agriculture deforestation and other land use such as harvesting peat and managing grasslands and wetlands. Together those activities generate about a third of human greenhouse gas emissions including more than 40 of methane. That's important because methane is particularly good at trapping heat in the atmosphere. And the problem is getting more severe. Emissions from agricultural production are projected to increase the authors warn. Delaying action on reducing greenhouse gas emissions they continue could result in some irreversible impacts on some ecosystems. This is the latest in a series of reports from the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The new report adds weight and detail to a warning put out by the same panel of scientists last fall in which they sounded the alarm about the inadequacy of the pledges countries have made so far to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. At that time the panel broadly suggested that farmland would need to shrink and forests would need to grow to keep Earth from getting more than 1.5 degrees Celsius hotter than it was in the preindustrial era. Global temperatures have already risen about 1 degree Celsius in the past 150 years. To meet that temperature target global greenhouse gas emissions will need to fall by 40 to 50 in the next decade. Scientists say the only way to achieve that reduction is to significantly increase the amount of land that's covered in trees and other vegetation and significantly reduce the amount of methane and other greenhouse gases that come from raising livestock such as cows sheep and goats. The new report offers some broad suggestions for how countries might achieve that. For example for countries that have lost tree cover in the past century reforestation can help suck greenhouse gases out of the air while also preventing soil from drying up. Reducing food waste can also help reduce a country's greenhouse gas footprint. Controlling emissions from agriculture is also a food security issue. Greenhouse gases from food production create a vicious cycle As Earth gets hotter farming gets more difficult in many places which forces farmers to clear more land to grow food. Climate change including increases in frequency and intensity of extremes has adversely impacted food security and terrestrial ecosystems as well as contributed to desertification and land degradation in many regions the report's authors write. If greenhouse gas emissions continue to increase as they are doing today it will exacerbate those challenges and eventually make it all but impossible to control global warming without creating serious food shortages. The U.N. panel is the latest group of experts to grapple with a global conundrum how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture deforestation and other land use without creating food shortages or displacing people whose livelihoods rely on practices that are unsustainable globally. Scientists and economists have been studying the effects of our diets on the environment for years. There's a growing consensus that a transition to a more plant centered diet would help. Currently about 50 of the globe's vegetated land is dedicated to agriculture and about 30 of cropland is used to grow grain for animal feed. Given how much land it takes to grow food to feed livestock meat production is a leading cause of deforestation. A report released last month by the World Resources Institute finds that if current dietary patterns continue an additional 593 million hectares which is almost twice the size of India would be needed to feed the projected 9.8 billion people the anticipated population by 2050. Right now agriculture generates an estimated 25 of annual greenhouse gas emissions according to the WRI that's when you combine food production and the land use changes associated with farming such as clearing vegetation and plowing. If current trends continue but agricultural productivity does not increase beyond 2010 levels the WRI report concludes that most of the globe's remaining forests would need to be cleared to feed the world. And the globe would exceed the greenhouse gas emission targets set by the Paris climate agreement.	True	False	False	True	False
Environmental groups were not going to be happy with anyone President Donald Trump picked for the Supreme Court. But the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh has them especially worried. A conservative who would replace the more moderate Justice Anthony Kennedy Kavanaugh has a record of slapping back Environmental Protection Agency regulations during his 12 years as a federal appeals court judge. Kavanaugh could shift the court to the right in many areas. But Kennedy was especially pivotal on environmental cases ruling with the majority on nearly all of them over 30 years on the bench and often siding with the environmentalists in the biggest cases. Kavanaugh has a narrower view of what environmental protections the federal government can implement. That was clear from an Associated Press review of his opinions while on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit along with other writings and speeches. It threatens to take us back to the old days said Pat Gallagher the legal director at the Sierra Club recalling environmental disasters from the 1960s and '70s. The Cuyahoga River Love Canal when there was no environmental protection. Kavanaugh's backers don't see him as anti environment. His rulings in cases involving the EPA say far more about the aggressive nature of the EPA in terms of trying to stretch beyond its breaking point its mandate from Congress said John Malcolm vice president of the conservative Heritage Foundation's Institute for Constitutional Government. Republicans hope the Senate can confirm Kavanaugh by the time the court's next session begins Oct. 1. But that is in doubt because of delays in reviewing documents related to Kavanaugh's time in President George W. Bush's administration. In his opinions on environmental issues Kavanaugh has often stressed the importance of policies to protect against climate change before saying that Congress not the EPA should create those policies. One prominent example came last year in a majority opinion that found the EPA lacks the authority to regulate hydrofluorocarbons chemicals linked to global warming. Kavanaugh wrote EPA's well intentioned policy objectives with respect to climate change do not on their own authorize the agency to regulate. William Buzbee a Georgetown Law professor who teaches constitutional and environmental law said Kavanaugh often rules that either Congress didn't delegate duties clearly enough to the EPA or that the agency wasn't carrying them out correctly in contrast with a history of judges giving wide latitude to agencies to try to solve problems. It's a move that sounds like an attitude of deference and separation of power Buzbee said. The effect is to take away an agency's powers to deal with real world problems. President Barack Obama relied heavily on administrative action as Republicans controlled Congress for most of his presidency and resisted passing laws that favored environmental protections over companies. Kavanaugh addressed that in the hydrofluorocarbons case Under the Constitution congressional inaction does not license an agency to take matters into its own hands even to solve a pressing policy issue such as climate change. Kavanaugh took similar approaches in two major 2012 rulings. In one Kavanaugh dissented from the circuit wanting to grant further review in a case in which the appeals court upheld the EPA's ability to regulate greenhouse gases. In another Kavanaugh wrote the majority opinion to eliminate a 2011 EPA rule limiting emissions from power plants and other sources to reduce pollution in neighboring states. Writing for a divided panel he found that this good neighbor rule overstepped the EPA's authority. The Supreme Court overruled Kavanaugh. In a speech last year at the American Enterprise Institute Kavanaugh praised the late Justice Antonin Scalia for applying a principle laid out by Chief Justice William Rehnquist to an EPA case. The major questions doctrine he said is critical to limiting the ability of agencies to make major policy decisions that belong to Congress at least unless Congress clearly delegates that authority. Still Kavanaugh has not always ruled against environmental regulation. In 2010 he wrote the majority opinion for a divided panel when trucking groups sued the EPA over California's regulations for engines such as those that power refrigeration systems on trucks. Kavanaugh praised the agency for properly following Congress' directions in delegating that narrow area of regulation to California. In environmental cases judges often must sort out who has the legal standing to challenge regulations or push for protections. The Supreme Court now for decades has said that environmental and aesthetic interests count for standing Buzbee said. My sense is they count less for Judge Kavanaugh. In a 2014 case he wrote the unanimous opinion finding that environmental groups did not have standing to challenge an EPA decision not to tighten carbon monoxide standards. There are also cases where he found that industrial groups have standing to oppose environmental restrictions. One of those came last year when he was on a panel that unanimously found that logging interests had standing to challenge the designation of 9.5 million acresin California Oregon and Washington as a critical habitat for the northern spotted owl. He wrote that industry groups showed clearly that they would face economic harm if logging was banned in the area. There are exceptions in his record. Kavanaugh was part of a unanimous 2009 ruling that found road and transportation building groups did not have standing to challenge some EPA rules. If Kavanaugh is confirmed in time for the new court session the first case he'd hear would deal with an environmental issue. In the case the private owners of land used for logging in Louisiana object to their property's inclusion in the critical habitat for the dusky gopher frog which was added to the endangered species list in 2001 when fewer than 100 were known to be in existence all in southern Mississippi. None of the frogs has been spotted in Louisiana for more than 50 years. A federal appeals court found the land's inclusion as a critical habitat was appropriate.	False	False	False	False	True
Among the 2020 presidential candidates Cory Booker stands out for his record of advocating for the people who bear the brunt of pollution and toxic waste. Before his presidential run he traveled to Louisiana North Carolina and Alabama to inform a sweeping bill that codifies the federal governments requirement to incorporate the interests of communities of color in environmental regulation.And as the mayor of Newark Booker tackled the citys lead water crisis and industrial pollution. Booker is also one of the few presidential contenders to embrace nuclear energy openlyhis 3 trillion plan to address the climate crisis includes 20 billion in research and development of nuclear technology. This is one major difference between Booker and his opponent Bernie Sanders who has called nuclear power a false solution and actually phases it out in his climate plan. The candidate sat down with Climate Desk in Anacostia Washington D.C. for anexclusive interview a day before the climate strikes taking place around the world. As part of the wide ranging conversation about climate change he explainedhow he squares hissupport for nuclear power with his passion for cleaning up pollution in disadvantaged communities. I didnt come to the United States Senate as a big nuclear guy Booker told Grists executive editor Nikhil Swaminathan on Thursday but when I started looking at the urgency of climate change I saw that over 50 percent of our non carbon producing power right now comes from nuclear. Nuclear has to be a part of the blend Booker added. And to say its not to say youre going to get rid of nuclear really you are handicapping and undermining our ability to get to the ambitious goals we must have. Booker also supports a fee or tax on carbon pollution that would be used in part to fund clean energy and efficiency investments. South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg is also in favor of price on carbon and explained his plan toClimate Desk this week. I dont think theres any pathway to get to where we need to go without putting some kind of price on carbon he said. A lot of people say well gas is so cheap right now. Yeah its cheap because the price does not include the full cost to humanity. Bookers support for nuclear power and a carbon fee has tempered any praise from the Climate Justice Alliance a network that fears these policies would hurt more than help affected communities. Indeed critics of a carbon tax worry that it would be regressive hurting the poor more than the rich. But Booker argues that rebates and investments in poor communities could help solve that problem. And while historically nuclear power companies have built their plantsand dumped the wastein poor communities of color Booker believes it doesnt have to be that way He points to agreements struck between local and national governments in Canada and Europe as a model for a community process to deal with the waste. Nuclear has proven to be one of the safest ways to advance carbon neutrality he said. Even if it means that we have to phase off it in the future the real pressing challenge right now the threat to our health and our safety and our well being is climate change and that needs to be our driving focus.	True	False	False	True	True
Wildfires are raging through Californias wine country. Flooded homes in Houston Texas are still rotting. Puerto Ricans are languishing in darkness collecting drinking water from streams. And South Florida and the U.S. Virgin Islands were still picking through the rubble as yet another hurricane made landfall over the mouth of the Mississippi River. Scientists say the frequency and severity of natural disasters like these are linked to climbing global temperatures. But the Trump administration on Tuesday announced plans to repeal the United States only major policy to combat climate change. The Clean Power Plan a set of Obama era regulations aimed at slashing emissions from coal fired power plants and boosting renewable energy production had yet to go into effect after being temporarily blocked by the Supreme Court since February 2016. On Tuesday afternoon Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt who sued to halt the plan last year when he was Oklahomas attorney general released a proposal to eliminate the policy without any replacement leaving the country without a national strategy to adapt to global warming. Rain soaked the state last winter stacking its mountains with colossal snowdrifts and quenching soil left parched after more than half a decade of historic drought. But record breaking heat baked the West in July and August drying its woodlands and leaving it vulnerable to the sort of blaze now engulfing the wine producing region neighboring San Francisco. These people have either no sense or a very sophisticated sense of irony to be doing this at this timehe added referring to the Trump administration. Following an exceptionally hot summer 172 fires 78 of which qualified as large incidents according to the National Interagency Fire Center burned more than 8 million acres in western Montana and the Pacific Northwest. Thats almost doublethe 10 year average of 5.5 million acres. Elsewhere a spate of fierce hurricanes inundated parts of the South and Caribbean. Warmer oceans tend to exacerbate storms and shift their directions. After Hurricane Harvey dumped 30 inches of rain on Houston in August scientists warned that the Category 4 storm served as a teachable example of the type of weather event their models predict will become more common as the planet continues to warm. The next few weeks proved Mother Nature to be a cruel instructor. Hurricane Irma rampaged through the Caribbean before slamming into Florida as a Category 5 beast knocking out power for millions and ultimately killing 69 people. Less than two weeks later Hurricane Maria pummeled Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands crippling the U.S. territories power grids and leaving whole areas uninhabitable. In Puerto Rico which has a larger population than 21 U.S. states the death toll continues to climb hitting 39 this week as the islands aging utility struggles to rebuild electrical transmission wires. But the proposal to scrap the policy without any kind of replacement to curb greenhouse gases underscores the extent to which the Trump administrations refusal to acknowledge basic climate science is leaving the country vulnerable to global warming effects that are no longer theoretical. It is crazy to think about having an EPA administrator who has nothing to offer in replacement of an admittedly not so good regulatory solution former Rep. Bob Inglis R S.C. now the executive director of the conservative environmental advocacy group RepublicEn told HuffPost by phone on Tuesday. To get rid of the Clean Power Plan without any idea of what to do that could be better is malfeasance on the part of the EPA administrator.	False	True	False	True	True
Republican politicians often evoke the Bible when it suits their purposes. But they disregard some of its most important teachings when formulating policy. This includes the story of Noahs Ark.Noahs story holds powerful lessons for us today. We live in a time when it has become absolutely clear that global warming is starting to have a devastating affect on our lives. From super storms and floods like the disaster unfolding in Houston to droughts and fires of unprecedented magnitude the direct effects of climate change are now impossible to ignore. Rising sea levels will put whole swaths of coastal cities like Miami under water before the end of the century. Yet despite such ample evidence and warnings the Republican Party still chooses to ignore the reality. And sometimes I wonder whether any amount of evidence could convince you to act. After all we have a surplus of evidence. What is lacking is the political will of Republican elected officials like youto do anything about it. The catastrophe unfolding in Houston is yet another stark warning.People are losing their homes and their jobs. Some have lost their lives.Scientists expect monster storms like Hurricane Harvey to increase in number and intensify in magnitude as warmer temperatures disrupt weather systems around the world. As I write Hurricane Irma a terrifying superstorm with the highest wind speeds ever recorded in the Atlantic is cutting a destructive path through the Caribbean. Cities like Houston and New Orleans on the Gulf of Mexico face the threat of severe and life threatening impacts. We have a moral responsibility to address this urgent threat.But Republicans dont want to talk about the problem or even admit it exists. Instead the Republican strategy has consisted of aggressive denial of the facts coupled with staunch obstruction of any serious action to address the problem. Tragically no industry has done more to block crucial action to address climate change than the oil industry. In fact as Hurricane Harvey barreled towards Houston two Harvard researchers were simultaneously releasing a report that detailed how Exxon Mobil spent decades lying to the American people about climate change. Now Exxon along with other major oil corporations like Valero Shell Citgo and Phillips 66 has been forced to shut down its Houston refinery because of flooding from the storm. Port Arthur the planned terminus of the Keystone XL pipeline is completely under water. The executives of these oil companies are bearing witness to the boomerang effect of burning fossil fuels. They are glimpsing a future that millions of Americans will face as the climate crisis intensifies. Senators I hope that you will take some time to reflect. Few politicians have done more to prevent action on climate change than the two of youwhich I suspect may have something to do with the5.6 million youve taken from the oil and gas industry over the years.But with so many citizens of your state suffering the direct consequences of climate change I hope you can summon the moral courage to change course. We face an existential threat and in the face of this your specious economic arguments and lame fossil fuel endorsed excuses fall flat. We know that fighting climate change will reduce costs and create millions of jobs.We have the knowledge and technology needed to prevent future catastrophes.By doing so we will create broad prosperity cleaner air and water cheaper energy for all and most importantly we will save lives. Just as the evidence of crisis has made itself apparent in Texas so has the fact that clean energy provides a better path for all made itself evident in the Lone Star State. Texas leads the nation in wind power generation and its on the way to becoming a solar energy powerhouse. Senators its time for you to join the team that is trying to do the right thing not just in the short run but with an eye to our shared future. The people of Texas need you to get on board with the biggest economic opportunity of the 21st century clean energy technology that will save lives create jobs and protect the amazing creation we all call home. On behalf of NextGen America please know that the people of Houston are in our thoughts and prayers. We are also fully engaged in fundraising efforts to assist our fellow citizens affected by this catastrophe. Words do not suffice in a tragedy like this. This is a time for action action to care for our fellow citizens in the face of disaster and action to prevent a systemic worsening of the climate crisis by heeding the warning and doing what is right.	True	True	False	True	True
The international summit Water and Climate Meeting of the Great Rivers of the World sponsored by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe UNECE and other partners is taking place in Romes Capitol building the Campidoglio from Oct. 23 25. In the Popes written message to the meeting conveyed by the Vaticans Secretary of State Cardinal Pietro Parolin the pontiff expressed his concern for water conservation around the world as well as his fervent desire that the threat posed by climate change to our brothers and sisters in the most vulnerable countries will find prompt and effective responses. In another speech at the summit Monday Mr. Karmenu Vella European Commissioner for Environment Maritime Affairs and Fisheries echoed the Popes concerns regarding climate change tying it into the situation of the worlds rivers. We are here today because our climate is under threat Mr. Vella said. Seasonal river flows are changing and floods and droughts are more severe more frequent than ever before. Climate change is raising the temperature of rivers and lakes with major impacts on ecosystems and water quality. These problems are just as real in Europe as they are elsewhere around the globe he asserted. The European Commissioner insisted that the key to addressing the problem of climate change and avoiding a point of no return is to be found in political will. The Paris Agreement reminds us of the need to prepare and adapt and to build up our climate resilience he said. In a major report last week the prestigious UK journal The Lancet suggested that pollution of air and water rather than carbon induced global warming is the real crisis facing the world one being overlooked by environmental activists. The Lancet revealed that pollution related diseases were responsible for an estimated 9 million premature deaths in 2015 or some 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence combined. Pollution is not only the largest environmental cause of disease and premature death in the world today the study found but diseases caused by pollution were responsible for roughly 16 percent of all deaths worldwidethree times more deaths than from AIDS tuberculosis and malaria combined and 15 times more than from all wars and other forms of violence. Curiously neither the European Commissioner nor the Pope made any mention to the extraordinary number of deaths caused by water and air pollution preferring instead to focus on the nebulous and ideologically charged notion of anthropogenic climate change. While to date there has not been a single documented case of a person being killed by carbon dioxide related global warming real pollution of air water and land is killing an average of 25000 people every day across the globe. Late last week a report out of Canada suggested that many nations around the world have quietly begun ignoring or abandoning the energy goals outlined by the Paris Climate Accord. According to Lawrence Solomon of Energy Probe a Toronto based environmental organization Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is one of the only signers of the Paris agreement who is actually abiding by the exacting demands of the accord. Solomon proposed that while feigning interest in global warming is politically expedient most people are unconvinced that it poses a real problemunlike the real pollution that is killing millions. In an essay in Fridays Financial Post Solomon said that most signatories are ignoring if not altogether abandoning Paris commitments undoubtedly because voters in large part put no stock in scary global warming scenarios. Trudeau now stands almost alone in sincere support of Paris Solomon wrote. The populist backlash a revulsion at top down governments laden with jet setting politicians landing in posh places to preach restraint to the masses has swept America with Trumps election Great Britain with Brexit much of Europe and Australia. In the process global warming enthusiasts are being swept out he said.	True	False	False	True	True
When Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull arrives in Washington this week for consultations with President Donald Trump he won't be traveling solo. Turnbull is bringing the most senior Australian political and business delegation ever to visit the United States in a trip aimed at building stronger relationships with America's governors. While he'll talk trade and security concerns with Mr. Trump Turnbull will spend the weekend courting U.S. governors at their annual gathering. Turnbull a Goldman Sachs executive turned prime minister is the latest world leader to extend outreach to U.S. governors and big city mayors in the age of Mr. Trump's America First policies. It's an end run or at least a shift in focus around Washington as foreign leaders react to Mr. Trump's unpredictability and occasional lack of interest in the sort of global cooperation they're seeking. Mr. Trump after all has announced plans to pull the U.S. out of the Paris climate accord exit the Trans Pacific Partnership and renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement and other trade deals. On certain issues like climate change these foreign leaders can't go to Washington anymore said Nicholas Burns a top State Department official during the Bush administration who also served as U.S. ambassador to NATO. This is happening more frequently because the Trump administration is pulling back on a number of its commitments. Turnbull isn't the only world leader to see the benefit of direct talks with American governors and municipal leaders. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's recent trip to the U.S. included trade and tourism talks in Illinois with Gov. Bruce Rauner and Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel a stop in the San Francisco Bay area for meetings with California Gov. Jerry Brown and Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom and a visit to Los Angeles where he explored the city's hiking trails with Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti. Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman is planning an extensive U.S. tour in the coming weeks with expected stops in several U.S. cities. During last fall's U.N. climate talks in Bonn Germany Brown and former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg took a starring role representing a group of U.S. states cities and businesses that argued they are still committed to curbing global warming even if Mr. Trump pulls out of the Paris accord. The group which calls itself America's Pledge notes that its collective alliance has an economy larger than Japan and Germany combined and can take steps to reduce emissions by promoting renewable energy use and climate friendly transportation systems. It's hardly unprecedented for heads of government and state to make stops outside Washington on visits to the U.S. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu frequently visits New York and Los Angeles and Mr. Trump welcomed Chinese President Xi Jinping at his Mar a Lago club in Florida last year. But governors and mayors say there's been an uptick in the interest of foreign leaders in reaching out to them since Mr. Trump's election. It's political and it's practical. On the political side a lack of engagement strength and leadership from Washington and the White House Garcetti said in an interview. But the practical aspect is the world demands integration and work on these things. In Los Angeles Garcetti designated Nina Hachigian a former U.S. ambassador to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations during the Obama administration to serve in a new position of deputy mayor for international affairs. Hachigian oversees the city's international portfolio from the city's dozens of foreign consulates to trade climate and tourism issues and the city's hosting of the 2028 Olympic Games. Mr. Trump's election and the nontraditional makeup of his Cabinet and administration proved that the political leadership of America over the years is not going to come exclusively from Washington said Joe Hockey the Australian ambassador to the U.S. But these days relationships have to be deeper. They need to be more thoughtful. They need to be broader. And they need to be inclusive. Turnbull and Ghana President Nana Akufo Addo will address the National Governors Association this weekend and the prime minister is bringing most of Australia's territorial premiers who will attend a joint program with their American counterparts Saturday morning. The Australian government and the NGA have partnered to bring a joint group of CEOs to Washington this weekend as well. Certainly there's some change in policy at the national level with this administration creating a bit of change and foreign governments are wanting to interpret that said Scott Pattison the NGA's executive director and chief executive officer. He said it has resulted in an increased interest on the part of U.S. governors to forge direct ties with foreign officials. This really is about interaction economic development. There is no desire on the part of governors they know their role there's not a desire to get involved in foreign policy Pattison said. But local leaders and their foreign counterparts are finding new ways to make end runs around Washington particularly on economic development and environmental policy. Last week the NGA launched a new international cooperation arm called NGA Global designed to strengthen ties between governors and foreign governments. At the last NGA meeting held July in Rhode Island Trudeau became the first foreign leader to address the NGA in its history. Last year NGA brought governors to Germany and Switzerland to study how those countries used apprenticeships to better prepare their workforces a test run for the new office. NGA is also hosting a summit of North American governors and premiers in Phoenix in May a partnership they launched with their counterparts in Mexico and Canada in 2015.	True	False	False	True	True
Rashida Tlaib was nearly breathless. It was 130 on Tuesday afternoon and the newly elected congresswomantold me that shed been racing from one meeting to the next since she arrived in Washington for the weeklong new member orientation. But before 800 amthis morning the incoming representative from Detroit had still found time to give a pep talk to the Sunrise Movement agroup ofyouth activists who would soonstorm the office of Democratic leaderNancy Pelosi to demand that the party use its new House majority to address climate change. The night before Tlaib and Representative elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez N.Y.who made headlines today by joining the protesters at Pelosis officehad stopped by St. Stephens church to meet with the activists on the eve of the demonstration. For me those young people I saw at that church that was me 15 years ago Tlaib said in a phone interview. I was fighting back against corporate greed and this constant disregard for public health. I wanted to come and help. The move is unusual for newly elected members of Congress but not so for Tlaib and Ocasio Cortez both of whom arrived in electoral politics through activism and community organizing and identify themselves as democratic socialists. And while Congress affords them a bigger platform to advance their progressive policy agenda their decision to join with the protesters during their first days in Washington makes clear that they have no intention of abandoning the strategies and principles that paved their way to Capitol Hill. Climate change has been a key issue for both Tlaib and Ocasio Cortez. As a Michigan state legislator Tlaib fought to reduceair and water pollution in Detroit and put environmental justice at the center of her campaign. Ocasio Cortez meanwhile has proposed a new congressional committee to develop a plan to transition the US economy away from fossil fuels reduce the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and promote economic and environmental justice and equality. Tlaib views her workwith groups like the Sunrise Movement as a natural extension of the campaigns she and her fellow progressive built. I dont have to stop being an activist because Im a member of Congress she says. That movement work is critical to moving the needle. Indeed Tuesdays protests appear to have already had some success. Pelosiwho is courting support for her bid to be House speaker issued a statementreaffirming her support for reinstating a select committee to address climate change a new iteration of a House committee that met from 2007 to 2010 but was eliminated when Republicans took control of the House. That promise falls short of what Ocasio Cortez Tlaib and the Sunrise Movement protesters seeknamely the creation of a so called Green New Dealbut the attention has started a conversation between the new members and their partys longtime leader. How far these freshmen progressives can push their fellow Democrats remains uncertain. The Congressional Progressive Caucusa coalition ofliberallawmakers thatTlaib and Ocasio Cortez have joinedwill have a record 90 members in the new Congress. Theres a lot more of us now Tlaib says. Be hopeful.	True	False	False	True	True
Radioactive uranium has leaked through a three inch hole in the floor at a nuclear fuel factory in South Carolina contaminating the soil below the plant the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission says. According to the commission the hole goes six feet down into the soil below the Westinghouse factorys concrete floor. While the commission cannot yet say whether the toxic substance has leached into the areas groundwater agency records show that the soil beneath the plant contains 1300 times the amount of uranium typically found in soil. The commission learned of the leak on July 12 and still does not have results on recent groundwater tests which would show whether pollution had washed into the areas water supply. State Department of Health and Environmental Control officials said that the leak does not pose a threat to local water supplies but activists are concerned that Congaree National Park a vast wetland just several miles from the plant may be contaminated. Its a pretty big concern if you have an unknown quantity of material containing uranium leaching into the groundwaterlocal anti nuclear activist Tom Clements told The State. Exposure to uranium can cause kidney failure and can increase a persons risk of cancer. The Westinghouse fuel factory turns uranium into several types of fuel for nuclear reactors. Fuel manufactured at the South Carolina facility is used in nuclear reactors in the US Europe and Asia. Despite boasting that no company is more focused on nuclear fuel reliability Westinghouses South Carolina factory has seen its share of safety foul ups in the past. The plant was shut down two years ago following a uranium build up in an air pollution control device. Last year a hose malfunction sprayed a worker with a toxic solution sending him fleeing to an emergency decontamination shower. In both cases the company resolved to hire new management and overhaul its safety procedures. The factory has been operational for almost five decades and is one of a handful of nuclear fuel factories in the US. At present its federal operating license is up for renewal. The plant is still operating but the section where the hole was discovered has been shut down until repairs can be completed. Like this story? Share it with a friend!	True	False	False	True	True
Mark Wilson Getty Images Climate change protesters block traffic during a protest to shut down Washington D.C. on Sept. 23 2019. Activists demanding a greater global response to climate change disrupted Monday morning commutes with protests in Washington D.C. Ahead of the days United Nations Climate Action Summit in New York activists participated in Shut Down D.C. a coordinated act of civil disobedience designed to draw attention to the global climate crisis. A press release from the events organizers said that Mondays protesters included labor organizations the anti war group Code Pink Black Lives Matter and the environmental justice organization Rising Tide North America. Environmental activists gather in Washington on Monday during global climate action week. The organizers said their goal was to shut down the center of decision making in the U.S. to demand the government immediately ends fossil fuel production and enforces a swift and just transition to renewable energy. Among their demands were the passage of the Green New Deal additional measures to protect indigenous peoples land and a broad push toward climate justice. Pictures and videos posted to social media on Monday morning showed protesters halting traffic at a number of Washington intersections. D.C. police identified 14 locations that were blocked at some point according to The Washington Post. Im in downtown DC where climate activists with Extinction Rebellion have blocked the intersection of K and 16th streets with a big sailboat that says rebel for life. pic.twitter.comNWIO1aRvM3 Alejandro Alvarez September 23 2019 Climate activists are shutting down major intersections throughout DC. Interstate 395 and New York Ave is closed. pic.twitter.comJhjVBr1hU3 Sam Sweeney September 23 2019 Mondays protests come on the heels of a worldwide climate strike on Friday a series of protests in multiple countries that some called the largest climate rally ever.	False	True	False	True	True
President Donald Trump asserted that he had very high levels of intelligence and as such did not believe in the scientific consensus surrounding climate change in a sweeping interview with The Washington Post published Tuesday. One of the problems that a lot of people like myself we have very high levels of intelligence but were not necessarily such believers said Trump speaking to the Posts Josh Dawsey and Philip Rucker. You look at our air and our water and its right now at a record clean. ... As to whether or not its man made and whether or not the effects that youre talking about are there I dont see it not nearly like it is. Trumps statements his latest in a long history of climate change denial go against the vast majority of scientists who say the planet has rapidly warmed since the Industrial Revolution and will continue to do so unless humanity is able to dramatically scale back greenhouse gas emissions. Without such action the planet faces a slew of devastating effects including a mass die off of coral reefsan increase in the severity of natural disasters such as wildfires and a global economic hit in the trillions of dollars according to a recent United Nations study. The White House released its own sweeping National Climate Assessment on the Friday after Thanksgiving. The 1656 page reportcompiled by 13 federal agencies and more than 300 researchers painted the bleakest portrait of the future United States yet noting that the country had already warmed 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit over the past century and will warm a further 3 degrees by 2100 unless fossil fuel use is scaled back. Predictions even said that warming could approach 9 degrees or more by the end of the century. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Tuesday that the recent National Climate Assessment was not based on facts. The report was compiled by 13 federal agencies and more than 300 researchers. Among threats to health and the environment the report also warned that sweeping damage would cut off as much as 10 percent of the U.S. economy. Its not based on facts. ... Its not data driven White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said at a news briefing Tuesday. Wed like to see something that is more data driven. Its based on modeling. I wrote the climate scenarios chapter myself so I can confirm it considers ALL scenarios from those where we go carbon negative before end of century to those where carbon emissions continue to rise Katharine Hayhoe a co author of the current assessment and director of the Climate Science Center at Texas Tech University said in a tweet on Friday. The president has stayed firm on his anti climate rhetoric in recent days even after the devastating Camp fire in Northern California left at least 88 people dead. Trump toured the town of Paradise which was incinerated and said that his opinion of climate change hadnt shifted after the visit. He moved to lay blame on forest management policies during the visit instead even suggesting that raking would help stop the scourge of wildfires claims he appeared to repeat in his interview with the Post on Tuesday. The fire in California where I was if you looked at the floor the floor of the fire they have trees that were fallen they did no forest management no forest maintenance and you can light you can take a match like this and light a tree trunk when that thing is laying there for more than 14 or 15 months Trump said. You go to other places where they have denser trees its more dense where the trees are more flammable they dont have forest fires like this because they maintain.	True	False	False	False	False
While scientists continue to warn that climate change poses an existential threat to the planet President Trump wont be talking about it at next years G 7 summit at one of his Florida golf resorts. Climate change will not be on the agenda acting chief of staff Mick Mulvaney told reporters gathered in the White House briefing room Thursday without elaborating. Mulvaney announced that the G 7 meetings would be held on June 10 and 11 at the Trump National Doral Golf Club just west of Miami an area threatened by sea level rise brought on by climate change. With its low elevations and porous limestone bedrock South Florida is particularly vulnerable to sea level rise. Despite warnings from the scientific community developers including Trump have continued to invest in property that could be underwater before long. Just using the U.S. government projections we could be at 11 to over 13 feet of sea level rise by the end of century Harold Wanless director of the University of Miamis geological sciences department and a leading expert on sea level rise told Yahoo News. Theres only 3 percent of Miami Dade County thats greater than 12 feet above sea level. Trump has labeled climate change a hoax concocted by the Chinese government in an attempt to ruin the U.S. economy but not all members of the Republican Party agree. For the first time in a decade Floridas state Senate held a meeting this week to discuss the impacts of climate change the Miami Herald reported. Theres a younger generation of conservatives in this state that arent as much in denial Republican Sen. Tom Lee who chairs the Committee on Infrastructure and Security told the Herald. Young climate activists like Swedens Greta Thunberg have mobilized students around the world to hold school strikes to protest inaction from world leaders on what they see as a crisis. Something must have changed in the debate that so many young people are speaking up and so many young people are being targeted Thunberg told Yahoo News in response to the mockery her movement has received from leaders like Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin. They can sense that we are making an impact. They obviously dont want that. So they are using several methods to mock and hate. While Trump continues to deny the threat that climate change poses to his own properties and the world at large the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco released a report Thursday on the financial risks that global warming poses. It found that properties like Doral that are likely to be underwater in the coming years are already selling for 15 percent less than those where flooding is not a threat. Even more jarring the report warned that climate change poses a threat to the availability of the 30 year mortgage in various vulnerable and highly exposed areas. Thanks to the continued buildup of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere due primarily to the use of fossil fuels the rate at which the polar icecaps are melting continues to exceed previous estimates. As of Aug. 1 of this year for instance Greenland had lost a record 12.5 billion tons of ice. This year is on pace to become the second warmest on record and all of the top 10 hottest years on record with the exception of 1998 have occurred since 2005. Download the Yahoo News app to customize your experience. None Turkey's president Erdogan bluffed Trump out of Syria. Now what does he want? None 'Five Eyes' in the dark Will Trump and Barr destroy trust in U.S. intelligence? None Why Stacey Abrams still wants to be president None What my journey into homelessness taught me	True	False	False	True	True
In a video posted to social media on Monday New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio again directly blamed climate change for 2012's deadySuperstormSandy a contention that lacks scientific support and touted his plan to spend 10billionto fortify and protectLower Manhattan against future storms. Even as local leaders warned that de Blasio's plan to construct new barriers would actually destroy the waterfront neighborhoods he says he wants to protect de Blasio insisted his views were now mainstream among New Yorkers. After Sandy there weren't a lot of climate change deniers left in New York City de Blasio said directly into the camera after reminding viewers that the stormleft dozens dead and cost the city billions in economic losses.We need to protect this city and this country and this world from global warming. There's no national policy to do it right now. ... We have to do it ourselves. Mayor de Blasio added in the video which appeared on Facebook and Twitter that the federal government also must act quickly We have to fight for the bigger changes like the Green New Deal de Blasio said. The mayor claimed that studiesundertaken by his office and others has determined that if the city does not prepare for climate change rising seas will expose 20 percent of lower Manhattan to daily flooding by 2100. However past expert predictions on the effects of global warming have proven inaccurate at best. For exampleUnited Nations scientists predicted that the world had only 10 years to immediately address climate change all the way back in 1989 in order to protect entire cities from destruction and a resulting flood ofeco refugees. ANASA scientist falsely predicted the same thing in 2006. Contrary to de Blasio's assertions no study has defintively linked the existence or power of Superstorm Sandy to man made climate change or made the claim that such a link can be definitively established at all.Some contested studies have however suggested the storm may have become more intense to some degree as a result of warming sea temperatures. We suggest that it is more useful to regard the extreme circulation regime or weather event as being largely unaffected by climate change and question whether known changes in the climate system's thermodynamic state affected the impact of the particular event stated one paper produced by researchers at the National Center for Atmospheric Research. The researchers added Some examples briefly illustrated include 'snowmaggedon' in February 2010 Superstorm Sandy in October 2012 and supertyphoon Haiyan in November 2013 and in more detail the Boulder floods of September 2013 all of which were influenced by high sea surface temperatures that had a discernible human component. The Green New Deal backed by de Blasio has not attracted universal support even among Democrats after the resolution'sbotched rollout in Congress earlier this year included the release of an official document by New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez's officethat promisedeconomic security even for thoseunwilling to workas well as the elimination offarting cows and air travel. The Democratic mayor on Thursday first announcedhis planto meet the existential threat of climate change specifically by extending a section of the lower Manhattan coastline as much as 500 feet into the East River. He said the 10 billion effort to protect lower Manhattan from flooding by extending the shoreline between the Brooklyn Bridge and the Battery will be funded partly by private development if federal funds are not available. WHAT DOES TRUMP ADMIN'S OWN CLIMATE CHANGE REPORT SAY IS COMING? If there's federal money in play it probably looks one way de Blasio said last week.If there's not federal money in play we have to get some private money into it and there has to be some development. Officials have been developing schemes to fortify New York City's waterfront since Superstorm Sandy destroyed thousands of homes and businesses in 2012. De Blasio said it will cost about 500 million to fortify most of lower Manhattan from future effects of climate change including rising sea levels and intense precipitation with grassy berms and removable barriers. But planners determined that protecting the lowest lying area including South Street Seaport and the financial district will require adding more land over several years. De Blasio who is contemplating joining the crowded field of 2020 Democratic presidential candidates said the 10 billion landfill project should be supported by federal funds but that's unlikely to happen during the administration of Republican President Donald Trump. Lower Manhattan is one of the core centers of the American economy he said. It's where the financial capital of the United States is. The security of lower Manhattan should be a national priority. The fact is it is not. And it's incomprehensible to me that there's no sense of urgency from the federal government. He added We can't afford to bury our head in the sand and that's right now what our federal government is doing. The plan to extend the coastline will go through the city's environmental review process de Blasio said but he hopes to avoid the endless dragging on that usually accompanies something of this scale. CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP But the prospect of private development on the newly built land is sure to meet resistance from downtown Manhattan community members. City Council member Margaret Chin who represents the area said amore resilient future cannot be paid for by private real estate development that would destroy the waterfront neighborhoods that we are trying to protect. De Blasio announced the climate resilience plan at a news conference after previewing it inNew York magazine. This is the existential threat de Blasio said. This is the core issue we all must face as aggressively as humanly possible. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	False	False	True	True	True
President Trump on Monday once again backed off his previous claim that climate change is a hoax but would not say whether or not he believed it was a man made problem. Speaking at a Red Cross center in Georgia where he was touring areas devastated by last weeks Hurricane Michael Trump said there is something there in response to a question on climate change from a reporter. There is something there man made or not the president said before deflecting to note that there have been previous storms that were much more intense and destructive than the recent slew of hurricanes to hit the Southeast. Trumps comments come a day after CBS aired an interview on 60 Minutes with the president who said he doesn't want to put the U.S. at a disadvantage in responding to climate change. I think something's happening. Something's changing and it'll change back again he said. I don't think it's a hoax. I think there's probably a difference. But I don't know that it's man made. I will say this I don't want to give trillions and trillions of dollars. I don't want to lose millions and millions of jobs. Trump called climate change a hoax in November 2012 when he sent a tweet stating The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non competitive. He later said he was joking about the Chinese connection but in years since has continued to call global warming a hoax. I'm not denying climate change he said in the interview. But it could very well go back. You know we're talking about over a ... millions of years. As far as the climate changing back temperature records kept by NASA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration show that the world hasn't had a cooler than average year since 1976 or a cooler than normal month since the end of 1985. Trump's comments came just days after a Nobel Prize winning Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change issued a warning that global warming would increase climate related risks to health livelihoods food security water supply human security and economic growth. The report detailed how Earth's weather health and ecosystems would be in better shape if the world's leaders could somehow limit future human caused warming. On Monday the president said that he had heard of the recent report and that hell have to take a look at it. Trump added I want crystal clear water I want the cleanest air on the planet. Citing concerns about the pact's economic impact Trump said in 2017 that the U.S. will leave the Paris climate accord. The agreement set voluntary greenhouse gas emission targets in an effort to lessen the impact of fossil fuels. Im truly an environmentalist he said on Monday in regards to leaving the Paris Agreement. But that doesnt mean we have to put one of our businesses out of business. The Associated Press contributed to this report.	True	True	False	True	False
In a statement to HuffPost the campaign said it plans to fund renewable energy projects to compensate for the carbon dioxide spewed by the planes and automobiles in which Sanders and his staff will travel while they barnstorm the nation ahead of the Democratic National Convention in July 2020. Bernie Sanders is a champion in the fight for climate justice and like him we know we need to address our emissions through action not just rhetoric Faiz Shakir Sanders campaign manager said in a statement. We are proud to lead the way in the fight against climate change by acting boldly to move our energy system away from fossil fuels and towards sustainable energy sources. Climate change is already a central plank of Sanders second White House bid.In December two months before he announced his candidacy the senator from Vermonthosted a televised town hall with climate scientists and advocates to discuss the crisis. In February he attacked Trump for ignoring climate change in his State of the Union address. During his stump speeches Sanders routinely skewers the fossil fuel industry and promises to enact a Green New Deal if elected. The announcement boosts Sanders bona fides on the issue and gives him a leg up in a crowded field of Democrats putting more attention on climate change than ever before. The move comes a week after the Sanders campaign became the first to unionize. Sanders has also drawn heat recently for his uncertain stance on reparations for the descendants of slaves and for quietly hiring a journalist who frequently attacked his 2020 opponents on Twitter as an adviser. Carbon offsets represent a drop in the bucket on an issue that requires unprecedented systemic change to avert climate disaster. But transportation emissions make up the largest share of the United States climate pollution.Sanders announcement steels the campaign against accusations of hypocrisy often made by Republicans who take an ideological stance against the scientific realities of climate change. The Sanders campaign is buying carbon offsets from Vermont based NativeEnergy the same company Clinton used three years ago. Once dubbedthe celebrities choice in offset providers NativeEnergy provides third party verification of how its offsets are used and boasts a high score as a benefit corporation a sort of LEED certification of for profit companies that pay employees decent wages and provide measurable value to society. Though founded and run by a former utility lawyer the company as its name suggests transferred a majority stake in its ownership to a consortium of Native American tribes in 2005. Carbon emissions from campaign travel first became an issue during the 2004 election when the NRDC Action Fund an affiliate of the Natural Resources Defense Council began raising concerns about the huge amount of fuel candidates burned crisscrossing the country. In 2007 former Iowa Gov. Tom Vilsack became the first presidential contender to go carbon neutral. John Edwards followed soon after. By 2008 both Democrat Barack Obama and Republican John McCain rushed to put themselves on a carbon diet according to MSNBC. During the 2016 Democratic primary Sanders clashed with Clinton over climate change attacking her support for increased gas drilling in a heated debate. After Clinton clinched the nomination the issue disappeared without a single question asked during three debates between Clinton and her Republican opponent Donald Trump. We are proud to lead the way in the fight against climate change by acting boldly to move our energy system away from fossil fuels and towards sustainable energy sources. Nearly every major declared contender for the Democratic nomination has expressed support for the Green New Deal a movement calling for a sweeping national industrial policy that zeroes out greenhouse gases over a decade guarantees clean energy jobs to millions and puts the country on course to generate as close to 100 percent of its electricity from renewables as possible in a decade. In a first Washington Gov. Jay Inslee is centering his entire campaign on climate change vowing to make it his priority if nominated. He joined Sanders Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand D N.Y. Sen. Elizabeth Warren D Mass. and Rep. Tulsi Gabbard D Hawaii in signing the No Fossil Fuel Money pledge an oath promising to reject donations from the oil gas and coal companies and their executives. The newfound attention on climate change comes after the United Nations stark warning in October that world governments have roughly a decade to halve global emissions or face an average temperature increase of at least 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit about half a degree Celisus more than what the world experiences today. Warming beyond that level is forecast to cause catastrophic flooding droughts and extreme weather with economic damages topping 54 trillion.	True	False	False	True	True
While a sobering new UN report on climate change indicates humans might have little time to change our ways to avoid environmental catastrophe President Trump isnt worried pointing to scientists on both sides of the picture. Referencing an uncle who was a professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology whom he never spoke to about climate change as apparent proof of his scientific bona fides Trump told the Associated Press that he has a natural instinct for science and that the climate goes back and forth back and forth. The US president remains unconvinced that human activity is the cause of climate change. While he has backed away from a 2012 claim that the concept was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing noncompetitive he is now convinced that somethings changing and itll change back again according to aninterviewhe gave with 60 Minutes on Sunday. Trumps appointee to the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt notoriously attempted to roll back several key environmental regulations passed under Barack Obama including the Clean Power Plan the Clean Water Rule and a proposed ban on the pesticide chlorpyrifos. Pruitt also oversaw a 23 percent budget cut to the agency and filled science advisory panels with industry representatives instead of unaffiliated scientists. Trump may believe in climate change now but he remains convinced that scientists who see a human role in the process have a very big political agenda. Meanwhile he doesnt want to sacrifice the economic well being of our country for something that nobody really knows. While some Democrats favor bold moves to address climate change others perhaps still shell shocked by the failure of their 2009 cap and trade bill under Obama shy away from anything more than incremental measures citing the hostile political environment in Congress. Rep. Gerry Connolly D VA said Democrats should focus on the practical and the opportunistic in the short term while working toward big picture aspirational goals in the long term. Some might argue the concept of a long term when it comes to the environment was rendered irrelevant by the latest UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report. It projected that humans have until 2030 to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions if we want to avoid catastrophic climate change in the form of massive sea level rise increased drought permafrost melt and coral reef die offs. Think your friends would be interested? Share this story!	True	False	False	False	True
WASHINGTON AP An agency ethics official at the Environmental Protection Agency says Administrator Scott Pruitts lease of a Capitol Hill condo tied to a prominent fossil fuels lobbyist didnt violate federal ethics rules. A memo signed by Kevin Minoli contends that Pruitts 50 a night rental payments constitute a fair market rate. The memo was dated March 30 the day after ABC News first reported Pruitt lived last year in condo co owned by the wife of Steven Hart a registered lobbyist whose firm pushed EPA to relax pollution regulations. Pruitts college aged daughter stayed in the second bedroom while interning at the White House last summer. Minolis memo says the 50 a night rate would total 1500 for 30 nights a month which he deemed to be a fair price. Pruitts lease however required him to pay just for nights he occupied in the unit. Pruitt actually paid a total of 6100 over the six month period he leased the property an average of about 1000 a month. But current rental listings for two bedroom apartments in the neighborhood show they typically go for far more than what Pruitt paid. A two bedroom townhome on the same block as the one leased by Pruitt was advertised for rent on Monday at 3750 a month. Another two bedroom unit on the next block was advertised as available for 4740 a month. The lease authorized use by the administrator and his immediate family specifically including his spouse and children and consistent with that provision of the lease his immediate family did stay there when they were in Washington D.C. Minoli wrote. The lease did not require payment when the property was not utilized. Neither of these two provisions render the rental cost under the lease as something other than market value. EPA did not provide a copy of Pruitts lease and did not respond to questions about how Minoli determined what he considered to be the fair market rate for the neighborhood. Also left unanswered was how Pruitt came to rent a property tied to a lobbyist with business interests involving his agency. The unusual arrangement has attracted attention in Washington where Pruitt has been under increasing scrutiny for this frequent taxpayer funded travel which has included first class airline tickets. Though federal regulations typically require federal officials to fly in coach the EPA chief has said he needed to sit in premium seats due to security concerns. Walter Shaub who ran the U.S. Office of Government Ethics until last year rated EPAs legal justification of Pruitts living arrangements as Total Baloney. He jokingly tweeted on Friday that he would like to rent the Harts prime location condo for 50 a night. Ill only pay for nights I use it but need it held vacant all other nights wrote Shaub who has become a frequent critic of what he sees as ethical lapses in the Trump administration. has certified that these are standard terms at market rate so it shouldnt matter to you that I dont run EPA. A Republican who previously served as the state attorney general of Oklahoma Pruitt has long been a champion of the oil and gas industry. In the year he has served as the Trump administrations top environmental official Pruitt has moved to scrap gut or replace numerous environmental regulations opposed by the industry while boosting the continued burning of fossil fuels which is the primary cause of climate change. In a statement to The Associated Press last week Steven Hart described Pruitt is a casual friend from Oklahoma with whom he had only occasional contact. Records show the powerhouse lobbying firm where Hart serves as chairman and CEO Williams and Jensen PLLC represents companies that include Exxon Mobil and Cheniere Energy Inc. In December Pruitt and members of his staff spent about 40000 in taxpayer funds to fly to Morocco to help encourage the North African kingdom to import liquefied natural gas from the United States. Cheniere is currently the only exporter of liquefied natural gas from the continental United States. The firm also represents OGE Energy Corp. an electricity company serving Oklahoma and Arkansas. Copies of Pruitts daily calendar obtained by the AP through a public records request show that Pruitt meet in his EPA office with two top OGE executives and a registered lobbyist from Harts firm in March 2017 when he was living at the condo. In October EPA announced it would rewrite the Clean Power Plan an Obama era regulation that sought to limit planet warming carbon emissions from coal fired power plants like those operated by OGE which paid Harts firm 400000 in lobbying fees in 2017.	True	False	False	True	True
An Environmental Protection Agency website teaching kids about acid rain instructs children using cartoon animals to avoid cars limit air conditioning and to buy cars that dont make the air as dirty. The EPAs Acid Rain Kids Site features the story of Lucy Lake a lake living in the mountains and the sick animals around her. On a normal day the plants and animals at Lucy Lake have enough food and clean water to keep them healthy reads the EPA site. The wind carries pure air and the rain comes down clear and clean. But lately Lucy Lake and her friends have not been feeling very well reads the story. Kids then see a cartoon depiction of a browned sweating sick tree a frowning lake and a fish that appears to be gasping for air accompanied by the following text All the plants and animals of the forest gather together to talk about the problem. Why are we sick? asks Frannie Frog. What is doing this to us? asks Sammy Spruce. What can we do? asks Lucy Lake. No one has any answers. Thankfully two people on a hike walk by. A cartoon frog stops the hikers to tell them about the dangers of acid rain. The creatures of the forest gather around and tell the hikers about their problems. We are hungry Were tired and weak Our babies are sick the plants and animals complain. Can you help us? they all ask. The hikers both nod their heads. Yes one hiker says. I think I know what the problem is he says. Its acid rain. One of the hikers then explains where acid rain comes from citing the danger of pollution caused by power plants. Acid rain comes from chemicals in the air or pollution says the hiker in the story. A lot of this pollution comes from power plants that burn fossil fuels like coal to make electricity. We use this electricity to make our lights and our TVs work. Pollution also comes from the cars and trucks people drive. This pollution also causes acid rain. With the help of the plants and animals the hikers then make a list of things that will stop the acid rain from killing the cute cartoon creatures. The list includes turning the lights off when leaving a room not using air conditioning as much riding buses and trains to avoid cars and buying vehicles that dont make the air as dirty. The story ends unsurprisingly with the hikers saving the forest and all its creatures including Sammy Spruce Wendy Wind and a gigantic smiling raindrop. The EPA website contains an Acid Rain Activity Book that includes several acid rain themed games for kids. It also includes a Message for Adults Acid rain is a problem that affects us all The message to spread however is that we can all make a difference and help reduce the presence of acid rain. We hope this Web site will provide younger children with basic information about acid rain and help them form a foundation of knowledge about and an interest for a variety of environmental issues. Its unclear whether acid rain is still a noteworthy problem. Some environmentalists claim it is but others including the Environmental Defense Fund a left wing organization calling for cap and trade policies to battle climate change says problems related to acid rain pollution have been largely been solved.	False	True	True	True	False
The much maligned rat is not a creature many would associate with coral reefs. But scientists studying reefs on tropical islands say the animals directly threaten the survival of these ecosystems. A team working on the Chagos Islands in the Indian Ocean found that invasive rats on the islands are a big problem for coral reefs. Rats decimate seabird populations in turn decimating the volume of bird droppings a natural coral fertiliser. The findings are published in Nature. Scientists now advocate eradicating rats from all of the islands to protect these delicate marine habitats. The Chagos Archipelago provided a large scale natural laboratory to answer this question although the islands are uninhabited by humans some of them are now home to invasive rats brought by ships and shipwrecks. Other islands have remained rat free. The islands with and without rats are like chalk and cheese said Prof Nick Graham from Lancaster University. The islands with no rats are full of birds they're noisy the sky is full and they smell because the guano the birds are depositing back on the island is very pungent. If you step onto an island with rats there's next to no seabirds. By killing seabirds this study revealed rats disrupt a healthy ecosystem that depends on the seabird droppings which fertilise the reefs surrounding the island. On rat free islands seabirds including boobies frigatebirds noddies shearwaters and terns travel hundreds of kilometres to feed out in the ocean. When they return to the island they deposit rich nutrients from the fish they feed on. These nutrients are leaching out onto the reef explained Prof Graham. He and his team were able to track the source of those nutrients back to the fish that seabirds fed on by analysing algae and sponges growing on the reef. We also found that fish on the reefs adjacent to islands with seabirds were growing faster and were larger for their age than the fish on reefs next to rat infested islands Prof Graham explained. There were also significantly more fish on rat free reefs than on those around ratty islands. Coral reefs cover less than 0.1 of the ocean's area but house about one third of ocean biodiversity. Coral reefs are also hugely threatened said Prof Graham. So anyone who cares about extinctions and biodiversity needs to care about the future of coral reefs. The reefs and their abundance of marine life provide livelihoods for millions of people around the world so the decline in coral reefs is poised to become a humanitarian crisis. This team of researchers advocates rat eradication projects on islands throughout the world. Coral reef systems are at crisis point because of climate change said Prof Graham. And we're desperately trying to find ways to enhance the resilience of coral reefs and allow them to cope with climate change. This is one of the clearest examples so far where eradicating rats will lead to increased numbers of seabirds and this will bolster the coral reef.	True	False	False	True	False
5 Major Crops In The Crosshairs Of Climate Change Climate change is coming like a freight train or a rising tide. And our food so dependent on rain and suitable temperatures sits right in its path. The plants that nourish us won't disappear entirely. But they may have to move to higher and cooler latitudes or farther up a mountainside. Some places may find it harder to grow anything at all because there's not enough water. Here are five foods and food growing places that will see the impact. Wheat source of bread and a foundation of life in much of the world will suffer from hotter temperatures and the country where the impact may be greatest also is among least well equipped to cope with a shortfall. India is likely to see a large drop in wheat production due to heat stress about 8 percent if average global temperatures rise by 1 degree Celsius according to one recent study. Temperatures are expected to rise more than that according to a recent report from the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change limiting climate change to 1.5 degrees Celsius will require heroic and dramatic action. It will take significant cuts in greenhouse gas emissions within 15 years plus efforts to recapture some of the carbon that's already been emitted perhaps by planting new forests. Globally though wheat may not be in short supply in a warmer world. Russia which is already a major wheat exporter may be able to expand the amount of land devoted to this crop. Despite Georgia's claim to be the Peach State California is the country's biggest peach producer. Farmers there grow about half of the country's fresh peaches and almost all of the fruit that's canned and processed in other ways. Many fruit trees including peaches have a peculiar requirement. If they don't experience enough chill during wintertime they get confused and don't bloom properly. No bloom no harvest. The peach trees currently grown in California's Central Valley require about 700 chilling hours during the winter. But scientists are predicting that by the end of the century only 10 percent of the valley will reliably see that much chilling. And even if plant breeders create peach varieties that need less chilling there's another problem Peach trees also yield less fruit when it gets too hot in summertime. Coffee can't take freezing temperatures but it doesn't like extreme heat either at least the highly prized Arabica type doesn't. So it's mainly grown on relatively cool mountainsides in the tropics. Brazil is the biggest coffee producer in the world by far but as the globe warms up most of its main coffee growing regions probably won't be suitable for growing this crop anymore due to heat as well as more frequent rainstorms. Coffee could move to cooler parts of the country but researchers don't think those new growing areas will make up for what's lost. Meanwhile rising temperatures could threaten native coffee trees that grow wild in the forests of Ethiopia and central Africa. The wild trees represent an irreplaceable storehouse of coffee's original genetic diversity. The world's commercial coffee trees are genetically very similar to each other and those genetically diverse wild trees could be the source of genetic traits that plant breeders may need in order to create commercial trees that can thrive in tomorrow's climate. Some of the wild trees however are preserved in gene banks in Ethiopia and Latin America. Nothing says Iowa quite like fields of corn. Climate models though see a different future. They're predicting that a warming climate will bring several changes most of them bad for growing corn. Rain will come less often and when it comes the storms will be more intense neither of which is helpful for a crop that demands frequent rains but doesn't do a good job of preventing soil erosion. In addition corn suffers when it gets too hot especially when it's too hot at night. Add it all up and one study estimates that corn yields in Iowa will fall substantially anywhere from 15 percent to an astounding 50 percent. By 2100 the Corn Belt is going to be in Canada not in the United States says Jason Clay senior vice president for food and markets at the World Wildlife Fund. So what will replace corn on Iowa's fertile land? According to one study by the end of the century this part of the Midwest will be more suited for growing cotton soybeans grass and forests. California the biggest single source of America's fresh vegetables and nuts and the primary source of almonds for the entire world is a dramatic illustration of how subtle shifts in climate can have huge effects. California's farms rely heavily on snow that piles up in the Sierra Nevada mountains during the winter and then slowly melts during the summer delivering a vital flow of water to the state's irrigation canals. As the climate warms though winter precipitation will arrive more often as rain and the snow that does fall will melt much more quickly leaving farmers scrambling for water to keep crops alive in late summer. Also there will be more variation from year to year wet years will be wetter and dry years will be even dryer. Both trends increase the chances that from time to time farmers will face catastrophic shortages of water. And that's especially bad for tree crops of which almonds are the biggest because losing an orchard is much more devastating than losing a single crop of say tomatoes. California's farmers may be forced to reduce the amount of land devoted to orchards since there there's a chance that they will not survive a major drought.	True	True	False	True	True
TANGIER ISLAND Va. Reuters This summer a delegation of Republican climate activists visited Tangier Island a speck of grassland in Virginia's Chesapeake Bay to try to convince its 450 residents to take climate change seriously. At a dinner attended by island residents Aug. 2 the activists from RepublicEn headed by former Republican Congressman Bob Inglis laid out the stakes The sea level is rising and some scientists estimate that within decades the island already suffering severe erosion will need to be abandoned. The people of Tangier Island were used to this kind of message. Former Vice President Al Gore a prominent Democratic climate activist had given the same speech to islanders three days earlier. They were also used to rejecting it. We'll talk to everybody said James Eskridge mayor of the mainly Republican island community. But they're not going to change many minds here. Residents he said do not believe in climate change they want a new sea wall to prevent erosion not a lecture about saving the world with solar panels. Tangier Island's steadfast rejection of climate change reflects the rigidity of American opinions about global warming often defined along political party lines. ReutersIpsos polling shows more than a third of Americans mainly Republicans reject the scientific consensus that climate change is driven by human activity. Less than a third of Americans believe global warming poses an imminent threat to the United States. These views barely budged after a series of devastating hurricanes this summer. That rift in opinion has proven to be a headwind for U.S. lawmakers seeking broad solutions to stem climate change like imposing a cost on carbon emissions or encouraging cleaner renewable energy technologies to replace fossil fuels. And while conservatives have long been skeptical about climate change doubters have a powerful new ally U.S. President Donald Trump. He has called climate change a hoax and has started withdrawing the United States from a global pact to combat it citing what he calls the huge economic cost. Eskridge told Reuters Trump called him in June after seeing a report about severe erosion problems on the island telling him not to worry about sea level rise. I believe man plays a part in it but not to the extent that others have been talking about that's what me and Donald Trump were talking about Eskridge said. 'WE'RE LOOKING TO STAY' An Army Corps of Engineers study in 2015 showed Tangier has lost two thirds of its mass since 1850 because of erosion a process scientists say is being exacerbated by climate change. Journalists and politicians now view the island as a symbol of the climate crisis. Tangier residents are happy with the attention but believe their problem is simpler. A sea wall built on one side of the island in the late 1980s has prevented the land behind it from eroding they say so another sea wall is the answer. We're not looking to have our light bills cheaper we're looking to stay here said Deborah Pruitt 57 who works at the island's museum where printouts of news reports about the island are displayed on a wall. Conservative climate activists like Rob Sisson of ConservAmerica and Mitch Hescox of the Evangelical Environmental Network said the rejection of climate change by Tangier residents is not surprising their groups often have trouble convincing fellow Republicans global warming is a real issue. Often they say people object to the idea that humans could possibly change the climate even if they wanted to. Florida Congresswoman Ileana Ros Lehtinen one of a handful of Republicans to publicly declare a belief in climate change said she has a strategy for getting fellow Republicans to think of solutionsI've found that the best way ... is to not dwell on the causes she said in an email.	False	False	False	False	False
GUILLERMO ARIAS via Getty Images A child in the caravan of roughly 7200 Central American migrants headed north to the U.S. Mexico border. Now with the White House poised to gut the federal governments only two major rules to reduce planet warming emissions and Trumpthreatening to cut aid to drought and violence afflicted Honduras Guatemala and El Salvador critics say the administrations strategy to deal with climate change is taking shape frustrating national security experts who say hunkering down and militarizing borders will do little to mitigate global warmings threats. A quasi fascist policy of fear mongering about immigration and corresponding militarization of the border is clearly the major thrust of Trumps response to the mounting impacts of climate chaos said Ashley Dawson author ofExtreme Cities The Peril and Promise of Urban Life in the Age of Climate Change. Despite the repeated dismissals of climate science by the president and many of his top advisers the Trump administration officially forecasts that the planet is expected to warm by 7 degrees Fahrenheit by the end of the century a projection buried in a 500 page environmental impact statement in August. Thats roughly double the temperature scientists say will cause cataclysmic drought storms and sea level rise and roughly four times the warming the planet has already experienced since the pre industrial era. Under those conditions more than 1 billion people globally could be forced to flee their homes by 2050 and2 billion by 2100. Tropical regions where many of the roughly20000 to 40000 migrants who crossed the U.S. southern border each month in the past year came from are expected to be hit the hardest. Its difficult to draw a direct line between climate change and a migrants decision to leave home and neither the United Nations nor nearly any other major countries currently offer legal avenues for asylum seekers fleeing the effects of global warming. New Zealandbecame the first country late last year to create a special status for climate refugees with 100 annual visas as low lying island nations in its corner of the Pacific face existential threat of sea level rise. On the opposite side of the ocean a hotter climate is expected to parch once fertile lands. In an email Jennifer Francis a Rutgers University climate researcher said its likely that increasing drought in Central America is making it more difficult for farmers there to make a living. The President had willing partners in Congress and could have worked on immigration border security DREAMers and all that Joseph Majkut director of climate policy at the Niskanen Center a libertarian think tank said in an email. But he didnt take advantage of that opportunity. Having missed the chance to seek actual reforms we now get a militaristic and hasty response to a predictable stress. Climate change is contributing to make nations unstable both nations in our neighborhood and others abroad said Femia whose Washington based policy institute includes former top national security advisers. The best way from a security perspective is to bolster the resilience of those countries so you reduce the likelihood of instability reduce the likelihood of conflict and reduce the likelihood of displacement that might force outward migration. That doesnt seem likely in the near term. The president attempted to cut funding forUnited States Agency for International Development by 33 percent this year though bipartisan support for the federal governments dedicated aid agency staved off the proposal. By deporting hundreds of thousands of Central Americans from the United States the administration like the Obama administration before it is bolstering gang recruitment in countries like El Salvador according to a December report from the International Crisis Group. That worsens the violence that many cite as a main reason for fleeing northward.	False	True	False	False	False
The Trump administration will repeal the Clean Power Plan the centerpiece of President Barack Obamas effort to fight climate change and will ask the public to recommend ways it could be replaced according to an internal Environmental Protection Agency document. The draft proposal represents the administrations first substantive step toward rolling back the plan which was designed to curb greenhouse gas emissions from the power sector after months of presidential tweets and condemnations of Mr. Obamas efforts to reduce climate warming pollution. But it also lays the groundwork for new presumably weaker regulations by asking for the public and industry to offer ideas for a replacement. In 2016 when it launched the plan at Obamas behest the EPA declared that theClean Power Plan was a vital cost effective way of combating climate change which would ultimately benefit the U.S. consumer. However an independent study by the Manhattan Institute showed this to be nonsense. The EPAs cost benefit analysis wasfallacious it had drastically underestimated the costs which it claimed would be 9 billion a year but which the Manhattan Institute showed would be closer to 40 billion and it would make no measurable difference to climate change. Hence Trumps election trail promise and executive orderin March this yearrequesting EPA chief Scott Pruitt to rescind the CPP. This was part ofa wider war on the Green Blob which has also involved withdrawing from the UNs Paris climate accord. Had it been implemented the CPP would have required U.S. power plants to lower their carbon emissions by 2030 to 32 percent below 2005 levels. Since carbon dioxide is a natural by product of almost every industrial process the knock on damage to the U.S economy in the form of lost jobs and higher energy prices would have been huge. Note though that the CPP is not being scrapped altogether but rather being delayed indefinitely through judicial fudge. Janet McCabe who headed the EPAs Office of Air and Radiation under Obama said an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking could take years meaning the replacement for CPP could be a long way off. It certainly will draw the process out she said. Some conservative groups have urged the EPA to scrap the CPP without replacing it effectively ending U.S. regulation of carbon emissions. But some industry groups want a replacement to give utilities regulatory certainty and avoid possible lawsuits by environmental groups. So while its good news that the CPP will probably never be implemented the bad news is how difficult it is even for a determinedly skeptical president like Trump to unravel environmental regulation. Even within his own cabinet there are numerous siren voices Javanka Secretary of State Tillerson Economics advisor Gary Cohn urging Trump to maintain his predecessors disastrous green policies. This fudge isnt perfect and it still doesnt solve the problem of the EPAs Obama era Endangerment Finding on carbon dioxide which ludicrously treats a harmless life enhancing trace gas as an existential threat. But at least its a step in the right direction the green blob just lost another of its tentacles.	True	False	False	False	False
California Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown issued an executive order Monday mandating carbon neutrality by 2045 then ordering the state to maintain net negative emissions thereafter. Browns executive order came the same day hesigned into lawa bill mandating California get 100 percent of its electricity from renewables and zero carbon energy sources. Brown is also preparing to host a global warming activist summit Wednesday. California is committed to doing whatever is necessary to meet the existential threat of climate change Brown said Monday. But have no illusions California and the rest of the world have miles to go before we achieve zero carbon emissions. Brown is right in one sense. California does have miles to go to meet Browns executive order because it relies on magical thinking and science fiction according to experts. Existing executive orders call for California to cut greenhouse gas emissions 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050 and state law requires emissions to be cut 40 percent by 2030. However thats not enough to meet the goals of the Paris climate accord according to United Nations models. What Brownorderedis not just reducing emissions but instead implied sucking more greenhouse gas out of the air than human activities in his state put up and not just for electricity. Browns order applies to the entire economy including transportation and agriculture. So what does negative emissions mean in practice? Well no one really knows but experts have put forward ideas to suck carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Browns office said negative emissions would be achieved through increased carbon sequestration in forests soils and other natural landscapes according to itspress release. But how would this even work?RELATED A New Report Details How Nonprofits Are Funneling Millions To Democratic Governors To Further Their Global Warming Agenda Scientists have also proposed technologies to literally suck carbon dioxide from the air and store it underground or in the ocean. Experts have also suggested reforestation ocean fertilization and whats known as enhanced weathering. Enhanced weathering is the rather hilarious idea that one can use rocks to in effect store CO2 emissions. In theory the rocks would react with CO2 and water to form an alkaline solution that leaks into the ocean. However all of these proposals remains magical thinking at this point according to aneditorialin the journal Nature. Enhanced weathering for example would require an area about the size of Texas of US agricultural land every year just to soak up 13 of the annual global emissions from agriculture according to Nature. Another proposed technology thats cited by the IPCC is bioenergy with carbon capture and storage BECCS. This is basically removing CO2 through growing plants which are then burned for energy. The emissions are then captured and stored underground. Of course BECCS is another magical solution thats baked into the IPCCs models of what needs to be done to limit future global warming to 2 degrees Celsius. University of Colorado professor Roger Pielke Jr. recentlypublished a paperon the problems with the UNs use of BECCS to sell the Paris climate accord. Carbon dioxide removal at massive scale is science fiction like a light saber incredible but not real Pielke wrote. Yet BECCS plays a very real role in todays climate policy arena Pielke wrote by helping to maintain the climate policy envelope and save us from having to do the enormously difficult and uncomfortable work of thinking how we might go about addressing accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere differently than we have since the 1980s and 90s. If nothing else full implementation of BECCS at scale would require the use of a global land area one and a half times the size of India Pielke wrote about the staggering environmental cost of negative emissions technology. Indeed the European Academies Science Advisory Councilconcludedin early 2018 that negative emissions technologies offer only limited realistic potential to remove carbon from the atmosphere and not at the scale envisaged in some climate scenarios.	True	True	False	True	True
Newly released emails show senior Environmental Protection Agency officials working closely with a conservative group that dismisses climate change to rally like minded people for public hearings on science and global warming counter negative news coverage and promote Administrator Scott Pruitt's stewardship of the agency. John Konkus EPA's deputy associate administrator for public affairs repeatedly reached out to senior staffers at the Heartland Institute according to the emails. If you send a list we will make sure an invitation is sent Konkus wrote to then Heartland president Joseph Bast in May 2017 seeking suggestions on scientists and economists the EPA could invite to an annual EPA public hearing on the agency's science standards. Follow up emails show Konkus and the Heartland Institute mustering scores of potential invitees known for rejecting scientific warnings of man made climate change including from groups like Plants Need CO2 The Right Climate Stuff and Junk Science. The emails underscore how Pruitt and senior agency officials have sought to surround themselves with people who share their vision of curbing environmental regulation and enforcement leading to complaints from environmentalists that he is ignoring the conclusions of the majority of scientists in and out of his agency especially when it comes to climate changing carbon emissions. They were obtained by the Environmental Defense Fund and the Southern Environmental Law Center which sued to enforce a Freedom of Information Act request and provided them to The Associated Press. The EPA maintains close working relationships with a broad range of public and private groups and Heartland is just one of many the agency engages with to ensure the public is informed said EPA spokesman Lincoln Ferguson. It demonstrates the agency's dedication to advancing President Trump's agenda of environmental stewardship and regulatory certainty he said. The public hearing referred to in the May 2017 email ultimately was canceled when the EPA official who runs it fell ill the EPA said. But Bast contended in an email sent to EPA staffers and others that the official called off the hearing after learning that climate change skeptics planned to attend. The Heartland Institute calls itself a leading free market think tank. It rejects decades of science saying fossil fuel emissions are altering the climate and says on its website that curbing use of petroleum and coal to fight climate change would squander one of America's greatest comparative advantages among the world's nations. Of course The Heartland Institute has been working with EPA on policy and personnel decisions Tim Huelskamp a former Republican congressman from Kansas who now leads the group said in a statement to the AP. They recognized us as the pre eminent organization opposing the radical climate alarmism agenda and instead promoting sound science and policy Huelskamp wrote. He said Heartland would continue to help Pruitt and his staff. Ferguson said Pruitt and his top officials have also met with groups known for their campaigns against climate changing emissions and pollutants from fossil fuels including the Moms Clean Air Force the American Lung Association and others. But Ben Levitan of the Environmental Defense Fund said mainstream climate change groups have received nothing like the outreach and invitations that Heartland and other hard right groups have been getting. Certainly in some ways this is normal and in the course of business that ebbs and flows with the ideology of the administration in power said Meredith McGehee executive director of Issue One a non profit promoting ethical government and bipartisan political reform. Heartland is not registered as a lobbying group. Spokesman Jim Lakely said the group has logged its contacts with EPA and that they fall below the level required for disclosing as lobbying. An email last February shows Bast forwarded to followers an email with the line From the White House rallying activists to public hearings the EPA was then holding around the country on repealing an Obama era power plan meant to curb fossil fuel emissions. The email is signed by a Pruitt political appointee and gives the name of another EPA official for activists to call. It's not clear from the email however who initiated the attempt to rally conservatives for the public hearing. Konkus was a Republican political consultant when Pruitt named him to the agency. His duties include reviewing awards of hundreds of millions of dollars in federal grants. The Washington Post reported in September that Konkus had been scrutinizing grant applications for mentions of climate change which he reportedly calls the double C word. Emails show he and former EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman repeatedly reached out to Heartland to talk over critical coverage by the Post. Lakely the Heartland spokesman responds he's shared the article with colleagues asking them to jump to your aide sic and defend this position. Konkus also contacted Heartland and other conservative groups asking for what he calls echo amplifying word of Pruitt's regulation cutting efforts according to the emails. And an email from Bast shared with EPA staffers and others shows the then Heartland president celebrating news that a reporter Justin Gillis was leaving The New York Times. Ding Dong the Witch is Dead. Still waiting for Chris Mooney and Juliet Eilperin at the WaPo and Seth Borenstein at AP to flame out Bast writes. Spokespeople for the AP The Washington Post and The New York Times declined comment.	False	True	False	True	False
We cannot live in a world that is burning one young woman said that is melting. Climate change is already affecting millions of people another young woman claimed. This could lead to mass extinction. We are not here to guilt individuals that forgot to recycle a cup last week another young woman said. We are here to hold cowardice sic politicians accountable who have caused this damage by turning their heads in fear. Those 12 years left to stop carbon emissions a young woman yelled. Is now down to 10 years and five months. One young woman said she wanted to acknowledge Hurricane Dorian a storm that is still in the Atlantic Ocean and is not expected to make landfall somewhere in Florida until early next week. It is ravaging the coast of Florida the girl said. It is not a coincidence. It isa direct impact of the climate crisis. The youths held signs that read Greed Kills Help My Home is on Fire and 527 Years of Indigenous Resistance and chanted in between speeches phrases such as What do we want? Climate Justice. When do we want it? Now. No more coal no more oil keep your carbon in the soil and Waters are rising people are dying. A speaker said that the protest was not the goal of the movement by a catalyst for action including a planned global climate strike on September 20 just three days ahead of a U.N. climate summit that is expected to draw leaders from around the world and where Thunberg will be a special guest and speaker. The speaker listed the groups demands which will be presented at the U.N. summit A just and livable world where fossil fuels are left out of every decision around the world 100 percent renewable energy around the globe and holding polluters accountable for causing the climate crisis. The publicist for the New York City protest refused to speak with Breitbart News when an inquiry was made about Thunbergs appearance and about Alexandria Villaseor a 14 year old who claims she has been protesting every Friday at the United Nations for 38 weeks. Reporters on the scene were kept from interviewing Thunberg during the protest. Thunberg gained international attention when she cut school a year ago to appear before the Swedish parliament where she called on young people around the world to cut school every Friday to protest climate change. It is not clear how many students in New York are still on summer break or skipped classes but Thunbergs publicity team announced that the 16 year old is taking a sabbatical from her high school studies to concentrate on her activism. After attending the U.N. summit Thunberg and her father will travel in the United States Canada and Mexico before attending a second U.N. climate change summit in Chile in December. Thunberg has said she is not sure how she will get back to Sweden and no details have been released on how she will travel around the North and South American continents without the help of fossil fuel powered transportation.	False	False	False	True	False
Billionaire Tom Steyer is keeping a low profile with respect to his support for the Democratic Partys Green New Deal. Its an unusual position for one of the environmentalist movements biggest advocates. Steyer has stayed mum on an all encompassing climate resolution that promises to completely remake the American economy. Hes given faint praise for the GND in a tweet and a few sparse press statements but the Democratic megadonor is instead focusing on impeaching the president. Theclimate resolution which was rolled out by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez on Feb. 7 callsfor 10 year national mobilizations toward a series of goals aimed at fighting global warming. A separate fact sheetclaimsthe plan would mobilize every aspect of American society. Steyers relative inaction comes as critics slam the GNDs coming out party. Ocasio Cortezs office provided NPR the GND resolution and its accompanying FAQ document that laid out its goals namely to move America to 100 clean and renewable energy within 10 years. The FAQ document dump turned into a millstone around Democrats proverbial necks. Among other things the document claimed that Americans must upgrade or replace every building in US for state of the art energy efficiency if they are to rid the country and world of all forms of pollution and greenhouse gases. It also stated that the GND would provide benefits for people unwilling to work. Ocasio Cortezs staff was forced to ding the document from the website and clarify the lawmakers position. The drama unfolded less than a day after the Feb. 7 rollout of the now beleaguered deal. Steyer for his part issued a tweet on the day of the rollout cheering the New York Democrats ambitious play. A real solution proposed in Washington? About time!! Lets make the liars and deniers explain why this doesnt HAVE to happen he told his Twitter followers at the time. Steyer didnt mention the GND again until several days later when Democratic Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts published a statement on his website noting Steyers support. Our society needs to turn dramatically and immediately towards the shared goals of environmental justice broad based prosperity and health. The Green New Deal is that turnSteyer said in the Feb. 13 statement. Steyers political action group NextGen America has not responded to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for comment. Some critics believe it makes sense why the former hedge fund manager is staying mum. Christopher Horner a senior fellow at the Competitive Enterprise Institute told TheDCNF that Steyers reticence to leap into the fray is probably a smart tactic given the GDNs controversy. I think I would avoid wide circulation too Horner said adding that the same people who couldnt create a healthcare website apparently cant even properlypostto a website. He often engages in legal battles against attorneys who sue energy companies over climate change. Other analysts shared similar sentiments. Hes calculating. Its not overly popular EE Legal President Craig Richardson told TheDCNF referring to the GND which received waives of support from various Democratic presidential candidates. Hes all in on climate program. Its a trial balloon so hes smart enough not to jump into that right away. Its really not politically expedient to come all the way out for it he said of Steyers reticence. Richardsons group is also on the front lines in battles against anti oil activists. Steyer is plowing another 6 million into what some Democratic leaders worry is an ill fated attempt to impeach the president. He decided not to run against President Donald Trump in January citing concerns about his business dealings and past fossil fuel investments. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	True	False	True	False
The American political conversation about climate is indeed scary and depressing. But the decarbonization of the real U.S. economy as opposed to the cardboard fossil fuel handicapped White House version continues. Indeed decarbonization is accelerating giving me confidence that in a year or so it will be clear to everyone that the U.S. is on track to meet and perhaps exceed its inadequate 2025 Paris objective cutting emissions 26 28 percent. That goal requires reducing emissions by 1800 million tons of CO2.At the end of 2016 the U.S. was almost halfway emissions down 850 million tons or 13 percent.This progress was led by the utility sector where efficiency renewables and natural were replacing coal so fast that power sector carbon was down 25 percent. The world rightfully worries when they hear Donald Trump proclaim he is going to bring back coal and watch the administration and the Republican Congress try to roll back such common sense requirements limits on the wasteful flaring and leaking of methane from oil and gas fields. But Trumps promise to have America withdraw from the Paris climate agreement has sparked a stunning wave of climate leadership from U.S. cities states and businesses a wave that is still building but by the time it crests may more than make up for Trumps stubborn foot dragging. Lets begin with bringing back coal. Since Trump was elected no new coal plants have been announced or opened 10 plants with 5600 megawatts instead have announced they will shut down. West Virginias largest utility wont expand coal generation because it cant find customers for coal power CSX a leading coal hauling railroad thinks coal is going away so fast that it has stopped replacing coal rail cars.Nowthe Sierra Club has estimated that additional coal plants whose retirement have already been announced would cut emissions about 160 million tons. Closing vulnerable plants facilities that no longer make economic sense to keep operating could avoid another 275 million tons. If present trends continue the club also documented that the U.S. could triple renewable electricity overall the utility sector should be emitting 500 million tons of carbon less in 2025 than it was just last year. While coal fades state governments representing almost 60 percentof the American economy are racing forward.In January California released its plan to cut its emissions by 40 percent by 2030 and went on to extend its cap and trade program for another decade until 2030 this time with support for the first time from the oil industry! California is also on the verge of requiring 100 percent of its power to come from renewables. Overall a dozen states are debating increasing their reliance on renewable power.Maryland just established a 25 percent renewable power goal overriding the veto of a Republican governor. The Nevada legislature went for 40 percent but has not yet been able to overturn a similar veto. The 15early adaptor states in the Climate Alliance will report this week that they are already on track to reduce their 2025 emissions by 24 29 percent. And some of Americas most Republican climate skeptical states Oklahoma Kansas North Dakota and even Texas are steadily replacing coal with renewables for economic reasons. These dont usually get counted in reporting on bottom up climate action but they have a huge positive impact on emissions. Whether their state legislatures and governors are leading on climate or not Americas cities where most of our climate pollution originates are embracing a decarbonized future.In June when Trump promised to pull out of the Paris agreement 125 cities told the world we are still in the Paris agreement.Today only three months later the number has ballooned to 238. The U.S. Conference of Mayors representing more than 1000 of Americas largest cities voted unanimously to endorse the goal of 100 percent renewable power and since Trumps election the number of U.S. cities with 100 percent policies has mushroomed more than 40 cities are now committed individually and five have hit that target! But government is not alone.The private sector where companies are increasingly competing with each other to succeed in the carbon free economy of the future is making Trumps climate denial braggadocio increasingly irrelevant. The Mars Candy Company recently committed a billion dollars to ensure that its operations and supply chain would reduce their climate impact by 67 percent by 2050. The number of companies who have signed the pledge of support for the Paris agreement has almost doubled from 906 in June to 1729 this week. And global firms will impact the U.S. climate footprint. VW announced a few days ago that it will offer electric versions of all its models entering the competition against current global EV leader U.S. based Tesla which delivered its first Model 3 in July. It is true the Trump administration is struggling to hold back the future with appalling decisions like EPAs recent announcement that it would delay cleaning up toxic water pollution from coal power plants for two years.But the courts are steadily shredding much of this the conservative 10th circuit just ruled that Trump must consider climate impacts before issuing new coal leases on federal lands. As the CEO of one of Americas historically coal dependent utilities Tom Fanning of the Southern Company says You cant keep waves off the beach.King Canute knew this. And the decarbonization of the American economy the real economy not the fake news economy shows its still true.The world can see and measure America is still in.	False	True	False	True	False
The Democratic candidates sounded the alarm on climate change in the first presidential debates but the discussion in June was so limited that they never really got into the details of how theyd solve the crisis. It was a different story this time around. It took more than an hour to get there Tuesday night but during the 12 minutes of discussion of global warming policy two of the frontrunnersElizabeth Warren and Bernie Sandersbecame the first candidates to substantively embrace versions of a Green New Deal in the debates. The concept of a Green New Dealpushed by lawmakers like Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y.has become a favorite idea for progressives. It outlines a vision for economic infrastructure and clean energy investment while aggressively ramping down to net zero emissions as soon as possible. Elizabeth Warren didnt actually use the words Green Neal Deal or tout AOCs specific resolution Tuesday night but she did capture its ethos by touting her plan for investing 2 trillion over 10 years in green manufacturing. The climate crisis is the existential crisis for our world she said. I have a plan for a green industrial policy that takes advantage of the fact that we do what we do best and that is innovate and create. She promised that her plan would produce roughly 1.2 million manufacturing jobs. This could revitalize huge cities across this country she added. Bernie Sanders also embraced the Green New Deal on stage albeit briefly. The Green New Deal is a bold idea he said. We can create millions of good paying jobs. We can rebuild communities in rural America that have been devastated. As he often does Sanders pledged to fight back againstthe fossil fuel industry noting that it continues to receive tax breaks and subsidies adding up to hundreds of billions of dollars globally. I get a little bit tired of Democrats afraid of big ideas. Republicans are not afraid of big ideas he said. Please dont tell me that we cannot take on the fossil fuel industry. Other candidates on stage were far more critical of Green New Deal policies. Former Maryland Rep. John Delaney pointed to his plan for a carbon price and investing in technology to capture carbon from the air. But he argued a Green New Deal would tie progress on climate to other things that are completely unrelated to climate like universal health care and guaranteed jobs. Former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooperwho has advocated working collaboratively with the oil and gas industry to address climate changecalled Green New Deal proposals a disaster at the ballot box. You might as well FedEx the election to Donald Trump Hickenlooper said. Montana Gov. Steve Bullock expressed doubt that such an ambitious program could make it through Congress. Lets not just talk about plans that are written for press releases that will go nowhere else if we cant even get a Republican to acknowledge that the climate is changing he said. Nearly every Democratic presidential candidate has now released a climate change plan or at least part of a plan. Climate change has consistently ranked as one of the top concerns among Democratic primary votersand polls suggest that Trumps climate denial is deeply unpopular. The relatively brief segment devoted to climate change Tuesday is unlikely to satisfy environmental activists. They have pressed for an official DNC climate change debate because they argue its needed to finally allot candidates the time to debate their plans in depthand to highlight the fact that President Donald Trump has no answers himself. Frankly I dont think we see an indicator that candidates arent willing to talk about solutions Greenpeaces US climate campaigns director Janet Redman told me after the last debate in June. But I think they need more time to state the case.	False	False	False	False	False
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson arrives at a meeting of the National Space Council in Chantilly Va. on Oct. 5 2017. Photo Andrew HarnikAP President Trumps dismissal of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson Tuesday morning fulfilled a long held wish for climate advocates but they fear his replacement CIA Director Mike Pompeo will be even worse. Tillerson joined Exxon in 1975 and rose through the ranks over the decades. He was CEO and chairman of ExxonMobil from 2006 until he joined the Trump administration in 2017. That Trump would nominate a lifelong oilman to succeed John Kerry who led the U.S. through the Paris climate negotiations of late 2015 as the nations top diplomat resulted in predictable and fierce pushback. During his confirmation hearing in January 2017 however Tillerson told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that he thought the United States should stay in the Paris Agreement which strives to reduce global warming to 2C 3.6F. He also suggested that a carbon tax may be the best way to limit the greenhouse gas emissions driving global warming. Pompeo on the other hand identified with the tea party and represented Kansass Fourth Congressional District from 2011 to 2017. He received more financial backing from Koch Industries an energy and natural resources conglomerate than any other candidate in the 2010 elections 80000. In fact according to the Center for Responsive Politics a bipartisan research group that tracks the effect of lobbying on elections and policy Pompeo has received more money from Koch interests than any other House member. In just four election cycles 2010 2012 2014 2016 he received the following 335000 from Koch Industries employees which includes 92000 from the Koch family 69000 from theKoch Industries PAC 417175 from Americans for Prosperity an advocacy group funded by the Kochs and 87532 from other organizations with substantial funding by the Koch brothers. And Pompeo turned to the Koch brothers who actively oppose climate change legislation for money long before running for office. In the late 90s Koch Industries invested in an aerospace company Pompeo founded with fellow West Point alumni. He sold his interest in Thayer Aerospace in 2006 and became president of Sentry International which produces and sells oil field equipment. In short even though environmentalists adamantly opposed Tillerson they do not expect anything positive for the climate from Pompeo. Jake Schmidt the international program director at the Natural Resources Defense Council released the following statement Replacing the man from Big Oil with a first class climate denier simply goes from bad to worse. This shuffling of the deck chairs will ensure that Washington continues to bring up the rear when it comes to international action to combat dangerous climate change. Tiernan Sittenfeld senior vice president of government affairs for the League of Conservation Voters said in a statement that Pompeos nomination is profoundly disturbing but not unexpected. Though not surprising this is extremely troubling. Climate change is one of the most critical threats facing our nation and world and the secretary of state has a huge responsibility to make sure it is addressed by the global community she said. With a history of questioning the science of climate change a close relationship with the polluter Koch brothers and lifetime LCV score of 4 Mike Pompeo has no business becoming the next secretary of state. Naomi Ages the climate director of Greenpeace USA was similarly perturbed. Donald Trump has now somehow picked someone even worse than Rex Tillerson to run the State Department. Greenpeace has been opposed to Tillerson as secretary of state from the moment he was nominated and we continue to believe that the U.S. government cannot and should not be run by fossil fuel industry flunkies Ages said in a statement. Mike Pompeo though is uniquely unqualified to be secretary of state in an entirely different way than Rex Tillerson was. In addition to being a climate denier like his predecessor Pompeo is Koch brothers shill who will denigrate the United States reputation abroad and make us vulnerable to threats at home. Rep. Barbara Lee D Calif. also took issue with Pompeos past statements on climate change.	False	False	False	True	True
The internal combustion engines days may be numbered in California where officials are mulling whether a ban on sales of polluting autos is needed to achieve long term targets for cleaner air. Governor Jerry Brown has expressed an interest in barring the sale of vehicles powered by internal combustion engines Mary Nichols chairman of the California Air Resources Board said in an interview Friday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.The earliest such a ban is at least a decade away she said. Brown one of the most outspoken elected official in the U.S. about the need for policies to combat climate change would be replicating similar moves by China France and the U.K. Ive gotten messages from the governor asking Why havent we done something already? Nichols said referring to Chinas planned phase out of fossil fuel vehicle sales. The governor has certainly indicated an interest in why China can do this and not California. Embracing such a policy would send shockwaves through the global car industry due to the heft of Californias auto market. More than 2 million new passenger vehicles were registered in the state last year topping France Italy or Spain. If a ban were implemented automakersfrom General Motors Co. to Toyota Motor Corp. would be under new pressure to make electric vehicles the standard for personal transportation in the most populous U.S. state casting fresh doubts on the future of gasoline and diesel powered autos elsewhere. The Association of Global Automakers said consumers must be able to afford the cleaner cars that California says are needed to meet its climate goals. The trade association represents Toyota Honda Motor Co. and other overseas carmakers in the U.S. We have been working with California on intelligent market based approaches to emissions reductions beyond 2025 and we hope that this doesnt signal an abandonment of that position Global Automakers Chief Executive Officer John Bozzella said in a statement. California has set a goal to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 80 percent from 1990 levels by 2050. Rising emissions from on road transportation has undercut the states efforts to reduce pollutionaccording to Next 10 San Francisco based non profit. To reach the ambitious levels of reduction in greenhouse gas emissions we have to pretty much replace all combustion with some form of renewable energy by 2040 or 2050 Nichols said. Were looking at that as a method of moving this discussion forward. California has the authority to write its own pollution rules which dates back to the 1970 Clean Air Act. Those rules are underpinned by waivers granted by the Environmental Protection Agency. Nichols said the state would likely take a different legal route to enable a possible ban rather than use an EPA waiver since the Trump administration would be unlikely to approve one. For example California could use vehicle registration rules or control the vehicles that can access state highways she said. We certainly wouldnt expect to get a waiver for that from EPA Nichols said. I think we would be looking at using some of our other authorities to get to that result. Read more California Sets Demands for Auto Emission Talks With Trump China will likely order an end to sales of all polluting vehicles by 2030 the chairman of electric carmaker BYD Co. said Thursday. France and the U.K. have announced 2040 as their end date for sales of fossil fuel powered cars. A ban for California could also still be decades away from implementation and just how far out remains to be seen Nichols said. There are people who believe including who work for me that you could stop all sales of new internal combustion cars by 2030. Some people say 2035 some people say 2040 she said. Its awfully hard to predict any of that with precision but it doesnt appear to be out of the question.	False	False	False	True	False
India's southern state of Tamil Nadu is poised to become a global leader in wind power according to a new report. But first the state must overcome its addiction to coal writes Nityanand Jayaraman. The report by the US based Institute of Energy Economics and Financial Analysis predicts that by 2027 more than half of Tamil Nadu's power will be generated by zero emissions technologies notably solar and wind. The state's current capacity to generate wind power 7.85 gigawatts GW is already impressive considering it is higher than that of Denmark or Sweden. But the report estimates that it could double over the next decade and that solar installations too could increase six fold to reach 13.5GW. If that happens clean renewable energy would account for 67 of Tamil Nadu's capacity which could revive the state's debt ridden utility. But in order to harvest that potential Tamil Nadu needs to transform its power sector. Tamil Nadu's population is three times that of Australia and its per capita GDP is on a par with Sri Lanka and Ukraine. It could prove to be an example of how emerging economies can grow while slashing their carbon emissions. Assuming Tamil Nadu's GDP will grow at an annual rate of 7 the report suggests that much of this growth can be driven by renewables. Installation and operating costs for wind and solar power have dropped low enough to compete with established but dirty sources of power such as coal. But that is where reality tempers the possibilities. The report argues that not only does Tamil Nadu not need coal or nuclear power but that these projects are financially fraught. Electricity from new coal power plants is likely to be twice as expensive as solar or wind power. But despite the bleak financial prospects Tamil Nadu currently has 22.5GW of coal power plants in the pipeline. Pursuing these ventures will weaken the state utility's finances and its ability to invest in smarter cleaner alternatives. There are other challenges too. Wind power can be generated only from May to October. Even during those months production cannot reach its peak because the state does not have a large enough grid to convey excess electricity to other states. So they will have to slow down generation from other sources. This also means the state is unable to import cheap power from other states during the remaining seven months when wind power is not feasible. Work is afoot to change this but its not guaranteed that the improvements will ensure that the grid can cope with the predicted generation. Integrating power from seasonal sources like wind requires a smart grid one with a sophisticated system of supply and management that can adjust to variations in demand. On this count too Tamil Nadu has a long way to go. But the biggest limiting factor for the state is likely to be water. Between climate change and reckless exploitation and pollution of rivers streams and lakes Tamil Nadu is staring at a bleak water future. At least 60 of groundwater resources in the state are assessed as over exploited critical or semi critical according to India's Central Ground Water Board. In April 2017 Tamil Nadu farmers camped out in India's capital Delhi staging dramatic protests stuffing dead rats in their mouths stripping themselves naked in front of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home and drinking their own urine to underscore the intensity of the drought back home. In June 2017 villagers in Tamil Nadu's parched Ramanathapuram district were protesting against a solar power plant they alleged that more than 200000 litres of scarce water was being extracted illegally from bore wells to clean the 250000 solar modules daily. Utility scale solar farms massive projects that supply power to the gird such as the one in Ramanathapuram need to be re evaluated especially if they are to run in areas where water is scarce. The report predicts that Tamil Nadu will have 10.3GW of utility scale solar installations by the end of this decade and only about 2GW of rooftop installations. Given that both the availability of sunlight and the demand for electricity are decentralised it makes sense to maximise rooftop solar installations rather than to invest in large solar parks. The overall direction if not the magnitude and rate of change laid out in the report is not just possible but essential both financially and environmentally. A healthy and environmentally sustainable future requires more than just switching from dirty coal to wind or solar power. But the bigger challenge lies not in decoupling growth from carbon emissions but in decoupling human wellbeing and progress from growth.	False	True	False	True	False
Donald Trump is moving to formally exit the Paris climate agreement making the United States the only country in the world that will not participate in the pact as global temperatures are set to rise 3C and worsening extreme weather will drive millions into poverty. The paperwork sent by the US government to withdraw begins a one year process for exiting the deal agreed to at the UN climate change conference in Paris in 2015. The Trump administration will not be able to finalize its exit until a day after the presidential election in November 2020. The secretary of state Mike Pompeo announced the development on Monday afternoon saying the agreement would be an unfair economic burden imposed on American workers businesses and taxpayers and that the US has already reduced its heat trapping emissions. But organizers of local city and state efforts to curb the crisis across America say the US is still trying to play a role in fighting the climate crisis despite the actions of the federal government. Carl Pope vice chair of the group Americas Pledge said its members who are vowing to keep fighting the climate emergency produce more than half the countrys heat trapping emissions and represent about 70 of the US gross domestic product. Another organization the US Climate Alliance includes the governors of 25 states representing 55 of the US population. In the Paris agreement the US agreed to cut its heat trapping pollution at least 26 below 2005 levels by 2025. Dozens of countries are also pursuing goals to reach net zero emissions by 2050. But they represent only about 11 of the worlds climate footprint and exclude the biggest emitters China the US and India. Staying on par with those more advanced countries would require the US government to eliminate pollution from coal and natural gas powered electricity plants transportation manufacturing facilities and agriculture. Local action by itself is not likely to be enough. We dont think its likely just with the states we have we think we need the whole country to be moving together Pope said. Jean Su energy director with the Center for Biological Diversitys Climate Law Institute said America is the number one historical contributor to the climate emergency wreaking havoc in burning California the flooded Southeast and the rest of the world. The next president must repay this extraordinary climate debt by rapidly moving America to 100 clean energy and financing the decarbonization of the Global South Su said referring to the developing world. In addition the Trump administration has also pulled US funding commitments to help the developing world cut pollution. John Kerry and Chuck Hagel president Barack Obamas secretaries of state and defense respectively in a Washington Post op ed called it a dark day for America. Climate change is already affecting every sector and region of the United States as hundreds of top scientists from 13 federal agencies made clear in a report the White House itself released last year they said. The past five years were the warmest ever recorded. Without steep pollution reductions climate change will risk tens of thousands of US lives every year by the end of the century. They called the Paris agreement a start not a finish line but the best ignition switch the world could agree on to spark international cooperation on this critical issue. Senator Tom Carper the top Democrat on the Senate environment panel said Once again President Trump is abandoning our global allies for the sake of misplaced political gain. Now America stands alone nearly 200 countries have joined this global commitment to fighting climate change even global pariahs like North Korea and civil war torn countries like Syria. Carper said Trump is abandoning tremendous economic opportunity and public health benefits. Trumphas alternately ignored or denied the climate crisis. His agencies are nixing regulations for power plants and cars and bolstering fossil fuels whenever possible. He promised to widespread dismay to exit the Paris agreement during his campaign. The Democratic 2020 election frontrunners challenging Trump have all said they would set the country on a path to neutralize its climate pollution by 2050. Nate Hultman director of the University of Marylands center for global sustainability and lead author of this years Americas Pledge report pointed to new laws in New Mexico Nevada Washington Maine New York Washington DC and Puerto Rico for 100 clean energy targets. Hawaii and California already had such laws. Together they represent 16 of the nations electricity more than doubling the share from 2018 he said. Another way to think about it is that Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement is supported in reality by only about 30 of the economy and 35 of the population Hultman said. Even once the US withdraws the country can participate as an observer in international climate negotiations. But despite the efforts of subnational governments recent analysis shows the US is still far off track from its commitments regardless of whether Trump pulled out. The US is also far from neutralizing climate emissions by the middle of the century which as many experts say will be necessary for all countries in order to avert the worst of the crisis. We can still get there with a serious shift in policy in the coming years said Kate Larsen director of Rhodiums international energy and climate research.	False	False	False	True	False
BERLIN Green parties in Germany France Britain and elsewhere celebrated big gains in elections for the 751 seat European Parliament amid growing voter concerns over climate change expressed in large scale student protests over recent months. Provisional results Monday showed the left leaning Greens bloc coming fourth in the election with 69 seats an increase of 17 compared with 2014. If confirmed the results could put the Greens in a position to tip the scales when it comes to choosing the next head of the European Commission. The rise of the Greens with their distinctly pro European Union stance marks a counterpoint to that of the far right anti migrant parties that have been growing in popularity across Europe in recent years. Whoever wants legitimacy from us and the legitimacy of the many who went onto the streets will need to deliver now said Sven Giegold a leading candidate for the German Green party that scooped up more than 20 of the vote nationwide an increase of almost 10 compared with 2014. READ MORE Europes voters elect new parliament as nationalism mounts voters elect new parliament as nationalism mounts The drift from the traditional heavyweight parties to the Greens in Germany was particularly pronounced in large cities such as Berlin Munich and Hamburg and among young voters where the party beat its bigger rivals among all voters under 60 according to the Infratest dimap research institute. Armin Laschet the governor of Germanys most populous state North Rhine Westphalia and a member of Chancellor Angela Merkels center right Union bloc called the outcome a wake up call for politics. In neighboring France 25 of voters aged 18 25 voted for the Greens compared with 15 for the far right National Rally and 12 for President Emmanuel Macrons Republic on the Move according to the Ifop polling organization. Overall the French green party EELV received almost 13.5 of the vote coming third. Yannick Jadot lead candidate of EELV welcomed the great green wave in Europe. The French sent us a very clear message they want environment to be at the heart of our lives at the heart of the political game and that message has been spread across Europe he said. The very good score of the greens in Germany Luxembourg Belgium and France sends a signal that the center of gravity of the European politics is shifting that in addition to the populists and the pro business parties there are the Greens Jadot said. Green parties also polled strongly in Austria Sweden Ireland Denmark and the Netherlands. In Britain the Greens a largely insignificant force nationally took 11 seats in the European Parliament vote. This was kind of a vote for all europhile and pro integration positions the Greens have championed Martin Florack a political scientist at the University of Duisburg Essen told German public broadcaster ARD. The enmity was reflected in comments by Alexander Gauland the co leader of the far right Alternative for Germany party who declared the Greens our main enemy on Monday. The Greens will destroy this country and our job must and will be to fight the Greens said Gauland whose party has claimed climate change isnt a man made phenomenon but instead caused by factors such as solar activity a theory most scientists dismiss. A senior member of the anti immigration and euroskeptic Danish Peoples Party Kenneth Kristensen Berth said the issues of the climate and the environment were a bit hysterical during the election but insisted that Denmarks second largest political group is not a climate denial party. Among those celebrating the Greens rise was Biggi Tran a 26 year old in Berlin. She attributed the result to young peoples fears about global warming. The climate issue is super important at the moment Tran said. Manuel Rivera a Green party member in the Germany capital said the European Parliament was the right place to tackle climate change. I think people realize that there are issues you cant solve at the national level he said. Giegold the German Greens lead candidate said voters expect the party to deliver on its environmental pledges not secure powerful posts in the executive European Commission. Across Europe this was a vote to protect the climate he said. People didnt take to the streets to elect or kick out a party but for these problems to be solved. Green lawmakers in the European Parliament plan to scrutinize the blocs 200 billion euro 223.7 billion agriculture budget which environmentalists say places too much emphasis on large scale farming and not enough on eco friendly agriculture he said. The Greens also want every law passed at the EU level to undergo a climate check. The party has strongly backed scientists calls for the bloc to end all greenhouse gas emissions by mid century. Achieving this goal would require a drastic shift in Europes economy away from fossil fuels to clean energy and low carbon lifestyles. Some measures proposed for cutting emissions have already faced strong headwind including Macrons plan for a fuel tax hike in France that triggered protests from workers even as environmentalists accused the president of not doing enough for the climate. Sylvie Corbet in Paris and Kirsten Grieshaber in Berlin contributed to this report. 	False	False	False	False	False
In his Message for the World Day of Prayer for the Care of Creation the pope adopted the apocalyptic language encouraged by climate alarmists to frighten people into taking action. Too many of us act like tyrants with regard to creation he declared. Let us make an effort to change and to adopt more simple and respectful lifestyles! Now is the time to abandon our dependence on fossil fuels and move quickly and decisively towards forms of clean energy and a sustainable and circular economy. Let us also learn to listen to indigenous peoples whose age old wisdom can teach us how to live in a better relationship with the environment he said. Recent studies have shown that the language of climate change and global warming do not stir up an emotional reaction in people and so climate alarmists have issued an appeal for the use of more powerful expressions to provoke people to action. Last April a team of advertising consultants from SPARK Neuro released the results of astudysuggesting that worn out expressions such as climate change do not frighten people enough whereas stronger vocabulary such as climate crisis and environmental collapse produced a significantly stronger emotional response. The expression climate crisis for instance got a 60 percent greater emotional response from listeners than climate change the study found. In its research SPARK Neuro measured physiological data such as brain activity and palm sweat to quantify peoples emotional reactions to stimuli. Of six different options global warming and climate change performed the worst beaten handily by climate crisis environmental destruction weather destabilization and environmental collapse. The pope has apparently joined the climate alarmists in employing more incendiary language dropping his former references to climate change to speak of a climate emergency and an environmental crisis in Sundays message. He also underscored the forthcoming United Nations Climate Action Summit as of particular importance while proposing that governments will have the responsibility there of showing the political will to take drastic measures to achieve as quickly as possible zero net greenhouse gas emissions. Referring specifically to fires in the Amazon region Francis called on everyone to take up these opportunities to respond to the cry of the poor and of our earth! Egoism and self interest have turned creation a place of encounter and sharing into an arena of competition and conflict he said. In this way the environment itself is endangered something good in Gods eyes has become something to be exploited in human hands. Deterioration has increased in recent decades constant pollution the continued use of fossil fuels intensive agricultural exploitation and deforestation are causing global temperatures to rise above safe levels he said. The pontiff went on to enumerate the effects of climate change an increase in the intensity and frequency of extreme weather phenomena the desertification of the soil melting of glaciers scarcity of water neglect of water basins and the considerable presence of plastic and microplastics in the oceans. All of these testify to the urgent need for interventions that can no longer be postponed he warned.	True	True	True	True	True
New U.S. Climate Assessment Forecasts Dire Effects On Economy Health The Trump administration released a major climate assessment on Black Friday the culmination of years of research by the country's top climate scientists. It's well over 1000 pages and touches on a daunting range of topics. President Trump said Monday that he has read parts of it. It's fine he told reporters at the White House although he said he doesn't believe the report's assessment that climate change will cause devastating economic impacts for the U.S. The report is required by Congress every four years and is issued by 13 federal agencies and the U.S. Global Change Research Program. This one marks the most detailed and blunt assessment yet of the dangers of unchecked global warming. Climate change is happening here and now co author Katherine Hayhoe of Texas Tech University told Weekend Edition Saturday. It is affecting all of us no matter where we live. And the more climate changes the more serious and even more dangerous the impacts will become. Here are some key points. Some parts of the U.S. economy could suffer hundreds of billions of dollars in annual losses by the end of the century unless global greenhouse gas emissions are substantially reduced the report finds. Already there's the impact of increasingly frequent and intense extreme weather events. The report notes that large wildfires are more frequent and that the areas burned by lightning ignited fires are expected to increase by at least 30 percent by 2060. The costs for fighting fires and forest management are on the rise see chart. But there are other less obvious risks. Don't see the graphic above? Click here Increasing rain and humidity could cause agricultural productivity to fall in the Midwest and warming oceans will hurt fisheries. Along the coasts more severe flooding threatens billions of dollars' worth of property and infrastructure which in turn could affect the economic stability of local governments businesses and the broader economy. Extreme weather events could also cause price spikes and interrupt international trade. As an example the report notes that flooding in Thailand in 2011 disrupted production of Ford and Honda vehicles in the U.S. and cost a U.S. based hard drive manufacturer 199 million in losses. Again the rise of extreme events like wildfires floods and storm surges poses the most immediate danger to public health and well being. The report finds that with continued warming heat related deaths will increase. The warming climate and more frequent and intense rain might also expand the range of ticks and mosquitoes exposing more people to diseases like West Nile dengue fever chikungunya and Lyme. Climate change could also worsen harmful ozone levels and air pollution. That could send more people to the hospital for aggravated asthma and respiratory or cardiovascular problems and could even increase premature deaths. As with so many climate impacts the report notes that those most at risk include children the elderly and low income communities. U.S. infrastructure was not built for these changes Much of America's infrastructure is already aging and deteriorating and it is taking a pounding from extreme weather. In some places more intense rain and saltwater intrusion have led to dam failures bridge and road closures and power outages. Heavier downpours can also overwhelm sewer systems causing untreated water to flow into rivers. In the West prolonged drought has forced utilities to cut back on electricity production from hydropower. Extreme heat and higher demand can also raise the risk of power outages. The report notes that power outages can affect drinking water treatment among many other services people take for granted. Intense rain flooding and heat can also hurt the nation's vast network of transportation shutting down major highways and coastal airports and halting freight movement. The report like most climate studies offers different scenarios for how fast the climate will change and by how much. The bigger the change the greater the consequences for everything from heat waves to hurricanes. The White House issued a statement criticizing the report as largely based on the most extreme scenario for emissions of greenhouse gases. The report is in fact based mostly on two scenarios One is the most severe view in which little or no effort is made to lower emissions. However it also uses a more moderate scenario one that sees more aggressive actions to reduce emissions than are currently underway less fossil fuel use for example or more efficient vehicles and buildings. And for some of its chapters the report considers a third far rosier future where emissions are drastically reduced and even where greenhouse gases are pulled back out of the atmosphere. Effects on people and the economy are considerably less dire under these scenarios than in the most severe one. Some communities are already adapting The good news in this dire report is that scores of local and state governments are taking action to lower their own carbon emissions and cope with climate impacts. Some of those impacts will get worse still no matter what as they are locked in due to historical emissions. But the report makes clear that changes today can make a big difference. It's absolutely not too late to take action says Brenda Ekwurzel a co author and senior climate scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists. The report states that more than half the projected damages of coastal property are estimated to be avoidable through well timed adaptation measures. But Ekwurzel cautions that we can't merely adapt our way out of this mess. The cost of adaptation could be quite high and it may never be enough she says. But costs will really start skyrocketing if we don't start reining in emissions.	True	False	False	True	True
The head of the Environmental Protection Agency has said America has nothing to apologise for on climate change and retains a seat at the negotiating table claiming After all were the United States. Scott Pruitt joined other officials in declining to say whether Donald Trump believes human activity contributes to climate change a day after the president pulled America out of the landmark Paris agreement. Pruitt claimed Trump wants better terms within the Paris framework or an entirely new deal and dismissed warnings from world leaders that it is not negotiable. Well thats up to them right? the EPA administrator told reporters. The United States has a seat at the table. After all were the United States and we are leading with respect to CO2 reduction. We have made tremendous progress. If nations around the globe want to seek to learn from us on what were doing to reduce our CO2 footprint were going to share that with them and thats something that should occur and will occur in the future. We will reach out and reciprocate with nations that seek to achieve that. Trump announced on Thursday that the US the worlds second biggest greenhouse gas emitter would immediately stop implementing the 195 nation agreement brokered by Barack Obama in 2015. There was a global backlash and the EU said on Friday it will increase cooperation with China to combat climate change. Pruitt denied that America has abandoned the victims of climate change around the world arguing that it has done a tremendous amount to reduce carbon output to 1990s levels and will stay engaged and continue to export relevant technology. This is not a message to anyone in the world that America should be apologetic of its CO2 position. Were actually making tremendous advances. Were just not going to agree to frameworks and agreements that put us at an economic disadvantage and hurt citizens across this country. He echoed Trumps attack on members of the agreement as having economic rather than environmental motives. The world applauded when we joined Paris and you know why? I think they applauded because they knew it was going to put this country at an economic disadvantage and the reason European leaders want us to stay in is because they know it will continue to shackle our economy though we are leading the world with respect to our CO2 reduction. The EPA administrator was asked repeatedly whether Trump believes climate change is a hoax as Trump previously claimed but refused to give a straight answer. Theres enough to deal with with respect to the Paris agreement and making an informed decision about this important issue he said. Thats where our focus has been the last several weeks. For his own part Pruitt acknowledged that global warming is occurring and that human activity contributes to it in some manner. But he added Measuring with precision from my perspective the degree of human contribution is very challenging. Sean Spicer the White House press secretary was similarly evasive on the topic. Asked if he can talk to Trump about the cause of climate change and report back at the next press briefing he replied If I can I will. Spicer gave short shrift to suggestions that Trumps decision will lift China as a global leader. I think part of the reason the president said it was a bad deal yesterday was because countries including China were not making substantial progress in reducing their carbon footprint. They werent doing enough and America was carrying the load so I think by negotiating a better deal hopefully we can get a better result for our country and the world. Nicaragua and Syria are the only countries not party to the Paris accord the former says it is not ambitious enough. Under a long exit process Americas withdrawal will not be become formal until November 2020.	True	True	False	True	True
In an effort to suppress federal climate research the Trump administration newstrump administration will direct state agencies to no longer consider worst case scenarios of global warming. Climate modelers working for federal agencies will only be permitted to forecast to 2040 decades before the as much as 8C degrees of global warming that could take place by 2100 if we continue on our current path. William Happer most recently famous for complaining trump science advisor compares climate science 1793497686 that the demonization of carbon dioxide really differs little from the Nazi persecution of the Jews will lead a team charged with reviewing the science produced by government researchers no doubt hunting for references to the disastrous sea level rise crop failures and health impacts continued warming stands to create. The irony in all of this is that Trump Happer and company may have a firmer grasp on the epic scope of these climate projections than many Democrats. As Naomi Klein argues even the rights fervent conspiracy theorists tend to understand at some level how profound the implications of this crisis are for business as usual which has distributed its profits among elites of both parties. Members of Trumps cabinet Klein has written donald trump tax cuts climate change republican ideology capitalism with their desperate need to deny the reality of global warming or belittle its implications nonetheless understand something that is fundamentally true. To avert climate chaos we need to challenge the free market fundamentalism that has conquered the world since the 1980s. For all their bluster and junk science Republican decision makers have a clear sense for their own self interest and just how much is at stake for them and the rest of the 1. Consider Happer himself a retired physicist who has spent his post academy days hopping between various climate denying thinktanks a good many of them funded by the fossil fuel industry. In 2015 Greenpeace activists duped Happer into agreeing to write a report on the benefits of carbon dioxide for a fictional oil company. The real coal company Peabody Energy has paid him to deliver testimony at a state hearing in Minnesota and Happer has joined hands with groups like the Heritage Foundation the Cato Institute and the Competitive Enterprise Institute all recipients of ample industry funding to bolster Trumps agenda and cast doubt on the scientific consensus. As the New York Times reported in its article on the White Houses new climate plans both Happer and John Bolton who tapped him for the administration have received generous support from the Mercers the rightwing family credited with both spreading climate denial and helping fuel the opioid epidemic. We cant know whether Happer genuinely believes the nonsense hes spouting or is just being paid well enough to sound like he does. The answer doesnt really matter. Any clear eyed assessment of what the science is telling us spells out who the winners and losers of rapid decarbonization would be. To cap warming at around 2C a threshold many already dealing with climate impacts argue is too high about three quarters of known fossil fuel reserves will need to be kept underground a reality that if realized as public policy would crater the stock price of energy companies. Climate scientist Kevin Anderson has estimated that if the top 10 of greenhouse gas emitters were to live like the average European an improvement even for many of us in the United States global emissions could decline by a third. It is possible climate change new ipcc report wxcindex.html with the laws of chemistry and physics according to IPCC scientists to limit warming to the boldly ambitious target of 1.5C. The problem is our politics and how much of a stranglehold the fossil fuel executives with the most to lose from decarbonization have over them. Establishment Democrats meanwhile are asleep at the wheel. The pitch for taking on the climate challenge is a compelling one for reasons well beyond the fact that it could prevent runaway catastrophe. The Green New Deal promises a well paid job for everyone who wants one a real mass transit system clean and affordable energy and universal healthcare a necessity as people leave their jobs to find new work in the transition away from fossil fuels. While several Democratic primary contenders have embraced the Green New Deal and begun proposing their own plans the frontrunner in that race Joe Biden and the Democrats congressional leadership have been cooler toward it offering neither a decarbonization plan nor a compelling reason for voters to get behind them come 2020. Thats a dead end for the planet but also for the partys political prospects. With Donald Trump at their helm Republicans will keep denying climate change because it represents a dire threat to their fossil fuel donors bottom lines. Democratic leadership would do well to follow the lead of their partys insurgent progressive wing and take the climate threat as seriously. 	True	False	False	False	False
LONDONSEOUL Reuters Temperatures are likely to rise by 1.5 degrees Celsius between 2030 and 2052 if global warming continues at its current pace and if the world fails to take rapid and unprecedented measures to stem the increase a U.N. report said on Monday. The U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC met last week in Incheon South Korea to finalize the report prepared at the request of governments in 2015 when a global pact to tackle climate change was agreed. The report is seen as the main scientific guide for government policymakers on how to implement the 2015 Paris Agreement. The Paris pact aims to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2C above pre industrial levels while seeking to tighten the goal to 1.5C. There has already been a rise of 1C since the mid 1800s as industrialization lifted emissions of carbon dioxide CO2 the main greenhouse gas blamed for climate change. A rise of 1.5C would still carry climate related risks for nature and mankind but the risks would be lower than a rise of 2C the report summary said. Meeting the 1.5C limit required rapid far reaching and unprecedented change in land and energy use industry buildings transport and cities it said adding temperatures would be 1.5C higher between 2030 and 2052 at the current pace. The targets agreed in Paris on cutting emissions would not be enough even if there were larger and more ambitious cuts after 2030 it said. To contain warming at 1.5C manmade global net carbon dioxide emissions would need to fall by about 45 percent by 2030 from 2010 levels and reach net zero by mid century. Any additional emissions would require removing CO2 from the air. Limiting warming to 1.5C is possible within the laws of chemistry and physics but doing so would require unprecedented changes said Jim Skea co chair of the IPCC working group which assesses climate change mitigation. The summary said renewable energy would need to supply 70 to 85 percent of electricity by 2050 to stay within a 1.5C limit compared with about 25 percent now. Using carbon capture and storage CCS technology the share of gas fired power would need to be cut to 8 percent and coal to between 0 and 2 percent. There was no mention of oil in this context in the summary. If the average global temperature temporarily exceeded 1.5C additional carbon removal techniques would be required to return warming to below 1.5C by 2100. But the report said the efficacy of measures such as planting forests bioenergy use or capturing and storing CO2 were unproven at a large scale and carried some risks. Steps like reflecting incoming solar radiation back into space were not assessed because of the uncertainties about using such technology the report said. It said keeping the rise in temperature to 1.5C would mean sea levels by 2100 would be 10 cm lower than if the warming was 2C the likelihood of an Arctic Ocean free of sea ice in summer would be once per century not at least once a decade and coral reefs would decline by 70 90 percent instead of being virtually wiped out. The report shows that we only have the slimmest of opportunities remaining to avoid unthinkable damage to the climate system that supports life as we know it said Amjad Abdulla the IPCC board member and chief negotiator for the alliance of small island states.	True	False	False	True	False
President Donald Trump has announced that the US is withdrawing from the 2015 Paris climate agreement. He said moves to negotiate a new fair deal that would not disadvantage US businesses and workers would begin. Mr Trump said during last year's presidential election campaign that he would take the step to help his country's oil and coal industries. Opponents say withdrawing from the accord is an abdication of US leadership on a key global challenge. The Paris agreement commits the US and 187 other countries to keeping rising global temperatures well below 2C above pre industrial levels and endeavour to limit them even more to 1.5C. Only Syria and Nicaragua did not sign up to the deal. Speaking in the White House Rose Garden Mr Trump characterised the Paris agreement as a deal that aimed to hobble disadvantage and impoverish the US. He claimed the agreement would cost the US 3tn in lost GDP and 6.5 million jobs while rival economies like China and India were treated more favourably. In order to fulfil my solemn duty to protect America and its citizens the United States will withdraw from the Paris climate accord... but begin negotiations to re enter either the Paris accord or a really entirely new transaction on terms that are fair to the United States he said. The speech contained several rhetorical flourishes reminiscent of his campaign speeches. We don't want other leaders and other countries laughing at us any more and they won't be he said. I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh not Paris. I promised I would exit or re negotiate any deal which fails to serve America's interests. Many trade deals will soon be under re negotiation. The BBC's Rajini Vaidyanathan in Washington says the move will be welcomed by many Trump supporters as for them this is less about science and more about sending a signal to so called global elites. Analysts say the US withdrawal from the Paris agreement will make it more difficult for the world to reach the goals that it set for itself in the Paris agreement. The US contributes about 15 of global emissions of carbon but it is also a significant source of finance and technology for developing countries in their efforts to fight rising temperatures. Mr Trump did not give a timescale for US withdrawal but White House sources had earlier suggested it could take up to four years. Former US President Barack Obama who agreed to the Paris deal immediately criticised the move accusing the Trump administration of rejecting the future. Republican congressional leaders and the US coal industry backed the move with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell supporting Mr Trump for dealing yet another significant blow to the Obama administration's assault on domestic energy production and jobs. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer called the decision one of the worst policy moves made in the 21st Century because of the huge damage to our economy our environment and our geopolitical standing. The leaders of France Germany and Italy issued a joint statement rejecting a renegotiation of the agreement. We deem the momentum generated in Paris in December 2015 irreversible and we firmly believe that the Paris agreement cannot be renegotiated since it is a vital instrument for our planet societies and economies it said. This was echoed by UK Prime Minister Theresa May who expressed her disappointment and told Mr Trump in a phone call that the deal protects the prosperity and security of future generations. Leaders of the Nordic nations Sweden Finland Denmark Norway and Iceland also condemned the move. A United Nations spokeswoman said it was a major disappointment for global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote global security. Small island nations whose existence is threatened by rising sea levels were critical of the move. The President of the Marshall Islands Hilda Heine said it was highly concerning for those of us that live on the frontline of climate change. Tech entrepreneur Elon Musk confirmed that he was leaving his role as an adviser to the Trump administration in protest. Am departing presidential councils. Climate change is real. Leaving Paris is not good for America or the world he tweeted. President Trump's statement is a very clear repudiation of the Paris agreement and international efforts to fund climate mitigation and adaptation in poorer countries. In many ways it is far worse than many had expected. He sees it as a clear job killer as an economy strangler and a desperately unfair stitch up by other countries wanting to take economic advantage of the US. He spoke of being open to re negotiating the deal or trying to build a new agreement but the idea of re negotiation is an unlikely scenario. The scale of his opposition seeing the deal as a massive redistribution of US wealth to other countries is a clear indication that he has fully bought into an economic nationalist and climate denier perspective. The question of unfairness cropped up again and again how the world's worst polluters China and India had no meaningful obligations placed on them by the deal. The overall tone and content of his speech clearly plays to his base but is also a clear disavowal of multilateralism especially on climate change and will definitely push other countries more closely together on this issue. Climate change or global warming refers to the damaging effect of gases or emissions released from industry and agriculture on the atmosphere. The Paris accord is meant to limit the global rise in temperature attributed to emissions.	True	False	False	True	False
On Thursday President Donald J. Trump rejected failed former President Obamasdisastrous Paris global warmingdeal that sought to burden our economy with heavy regulations and taxes all to push the lefts global warming hysteria. In a Rose Garden speech President Trump said he rejected the global warming agreement because I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh not Paris words that the global warming alarmists cannot comprehend. Now a new report sheds some more light into why President Trump rejected the globalist scam and its incrediblespecifically he wanted to stick it to holier than thou elites in America specifically leftists who flyaround in private jets drive SUVs and live in massive mansions yet lecture Americans about their environmental impact. This is religion for the political left and our supporters are constantly being asked to change their behavior a top White House official told Axios who added that snarky comments from European leaders also encouraged Trump to withdraw. The White House official said Trump resented the corporate critics who ride in fossil fuel guzzling planes and SUVs then act holier than thou according to Axios. Trump announced he would withdraw the U.S. from the Paris agreement which the Obama administration joined in 2016 after years of negotiating with United Nations member countries. Some 147 countries have ratified the Paris agreement. Trump said the Paris agreement was poorly negotiated and would harm the U.S. economy. Trump said the deal transferred wealth from the U.S. to economic rivals like China and India. I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh not Paris Trump said. Its also important to note that the Obama administration didnt have the authority to commit the United States to a treaty without being ratified by the Senate a crucial point that the liberal media deliberately ignores in order to attack President Trump. Its been rumored that Trumps liberal son in law Jared Kushner as well as his daughter Ivanka and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson pushed the President to remain in the global warming deal but the President chose the American people instead. For years liberals like Al Gore and Leonardo DiCaprio have lectured the American public on global warming yet these hypocrites have bigger carbon footprints than millions of poorer peoplecombined traveling around the world in private jets accompanied by a fleet of SUVs. Throughout much of the 2016 campaign then candidate Donald Trump railed against corporate and global elitists who want to dictate their liberal agenda onto the American public with no understanding of how such liberal policies would harm our economy and the Americanpeople. President Trumps decision to pull out of the Paris climate deal is a giant middle finger to elitists all around the world who want America to suffer simply to promote their global warming alarmism. Are you glad President Trump rejected the Paris deal? Share your thoughts below!	True	False	False	True	True
Salvage expert Nick Sloane is the brains behind a scheme to tow a massive iceberg from Antarctica to Cape Town to alleviate the South African city's drought AFP PhotoRODGER BOSCH Cape Town AFP It is a plan as crazy as the situation is desperate towing an iceberg from Antarctica to Cape Town to supply fresh water to a city in the grip of drought. Earlier this year Cape Town came within weeks of shutting off all its taps and forcing residents to queue for water rations at public standpipes. The cut off was narrowly averted as people scrambled to reduce their water usage and Autumn rains saved the day. But the threat is expected to return to the coastal South African city again next year and beyond. The idea sounds crazy admits maverick salvage expert Nick Sloane the brains behind the tow an iceberg scheme. But if you look at the fine details it is not so crazy. Sloane suggests wrapping the iceberg in a textile insulation skirt to stop it melting and using a supertanker and two tugboats to drag it 2000 kilometres 1200 miles towards Cape Town using prevailing ocean currents. The iceberg carefully selected by drones and radiography scans would be about one kilometre in length 500 metres across and up to 250 metres deep with a flat tabletop surface. Melted water could be gathered each day using collection channels and a milling machine to create ice slurry producing 150 million litres of usable water every day for a year. Sloane's idea might be dismissed as mere fantasy. But the 56 year old Zambian South African has a reputation for taking on the impossible after he re floated the giant Costa Concordia cruise ship that capsized in 2012 off the Tuscan island of Giglio killing 32 people one of the world's largest and most complex maritime salvage operations. Icebergs are made of the purest freshwater on earth the founder of Sloane Marine Ltd said earnestly. Thousands break off every year. Mother Nature has been teasing mankind with this for a long time saying 'this is here'. He estimates it would cost 100 million 86 million euros to haul an iceberg on a journey that could take up to three months and another 50 60 million to harvest the water for one year as it melts. In Russia they have pushed icebergs away from oil installations but small ones they are about half a million tons. Here we are talking about 100 million tons said Sloane. To tackle the drought Cape Town has enacted measures ranging from building seawater desalination plants to issuing strict instructions to only flush toilets when necessary. But whether Cape Town authorities will be persuaded to embrace the iceberg project is unclear. At this stage it appears to us that in fact the groundwater or desalination options are cheaper or at least equal cost price said Cape Town's deputy mayor Ian Neilson. There are also questions on how the water from the iceberg will be channelled into the city's distribution system. Another problem is that there is no guarantee that by the time the iceberg is hauled to Cape Town it will still be able to produce the promised volumes of water. Sloane's plan is to tow the giant iceberg some 150 km further north to South Africa's St. Helena Bay where the cold Benguela Current keeps water at around zero degrees Celsius. Once there the iceberg could be anchored in an old submarine channel suggests Sloane. As the iceberg melts water will be collected each day pumped into tankers and driven to Cape Town. It won't sort out Cape Town's crisis but it will be about 20 to 30 percent of their annual needs said Sloane. The project is crazy no question said Olav Orheim a Norwegian glaciologist with four decades of experience who is working on a similar project for Saudi Arabia. Never has such a large iceberg been towed indeed the towing of ice to supply drinking water would be a first and it is unknown if it would withstand ocean currents or simply fracture in transit. But said Orheim it was no longer unrealistic because we know so much more now than when we started this kind of research 40 years ago. It is a high risk project but also one which may have a very high reward at the end said Orheim. For Wolfgang Foerg the chief executive of Swiss company Water Vision which has teamed up with Sloane the project has huge potential in the face of ever more frequent drought. As for Sloane he is ready for the green light. If they tell us to go now we can have it here by Easter 2019 he said.	False	False	False	True	True
Thecreationof the DMZ in 1953 marked a ceasefire in a war that divided Korea and resulted in the deaths of 2.5 million people including more than 36000 American soldiers. With the exception of Panmunjom a small village where peace negotiations were held and is still the site of some diplomatic engagements people are not allowed in the DMZ. Over 60 years have passed since the creation of the DMZ. In that time the inaccessible land between the barbed wire fences has turned into a land of pristine nature and life. It has become a refuge for venous wild flora and fauna with over 106 endangered species including the musk deer mountain goat otter golden eagle mute swan bean good common Korean battering Mongolian racerunner Korean necklace pod and the vesper iris. The DMZ is also a sanctuary for migratory birds visited by rare and wild bird species from all over the world in early October. Smithsonian Magazine reported that before the Korean War much of the wetlands area of the DMZ was cultivated farmland. The Seoul based newspaper the Dong A Ilbo reportedThursday that some experts think the DMZ should be designated a UNESCO biosphere preserved through international support. The World Heritage Committee ambassadors at UNESCO have praised DMZ as a wonderfully preserved natural heritage with potential to be registered as a natural reserve immediately Korean Ambassador to UNESCO Lee Byung hun told the Dong A Ilbo. South Korea applied for registry in 2012 but was thwarted by North Korean opposition according to the Dong A Ilbo. The DMZ is not only home to various wildlife but also to wetlands Kim Kwi gon professor emeritus at Seoul National University told the outlet. The region should be classified according to value such as key areas with high preservation value and buffer areas. Other areas could be designated for economic cooperation and travel. Dong A Ilbo reported that the National Institute of Ecology NIE affiliated by the Ministry of Environment announced on Wednesday that 37.8 percent of the 267 endangered species in Korea are living in the DMZ. The NIE regularly updates Koreans about the state of nature in the DMZ through videos it posts on its social media accounts. The data collected in the DMZ took place from 2014 to 2017. Previous data has been collected starting in 1974.	True	True	False	False	True
Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson the former chief executive of Exxon Mobil has also spoken in favor of keeping a seat at the table in the climate pact and in recent days major corporations have stepped forward to embrace that position. While no decision has been made experts tracking it say that view is gaining traction. We do not currently believe the Trump administration plans to withdraw from either Paris agreement wrote Kevin Book an analyst at ClearView Energy Partners a Washington firm in a memo to clients on Monday. While Mr. Trump does not have the power to undo a multilateral United Nations accord he could withdraw the worlds largest economy from the pact weakening it substantially. Such a move would win cheers from the nations most powerful conservative political advocates and give Mr. Trump bragging rights in coal country. But withdrawing from the landmark accord that committed nearly every nation to take action against planet warming emissions could create diplomatic blowback while weakening American leadership in arenas far afield from energy and the environment. Besides keeping the United States name on the accord does not obligate the Trump administration to abide by the ambitious emissions control pledges of Mr. Trumps predecessor Barack Obama. At least one senior White House climate policy adviser George David Banks has advocated staying in the agreement while replacing the Obama plan with a weaker more industry friendly pledge. Over recent weeks Mr. Banks has asked top officials at several major corporations including Exxon Mobil who have similar views to submit letters to the White House confirming their support of staying in the Paris deal even if in a modified form. In response Peter Trelenberg the manager of environmental policy and planning at Exxon Mobil wrote to Mr. Banks Exxon Mobil supports the Paris agreement as an effective framework for addressing the risks of climate change. Royal Dutch Shell and BP European companies with significant investments in the United States have also endorsed the accord. Last month Representative Kevin Cramer a Republican from oil gas and coal rich North Dakota wrote The U.S. should present a new pledge that does no harm to our economy. Mr. Cramer an early supporter of Donald J. Trump advised Mr. Trump on energy issues during his presidential campaign. Colin Marshall the chief executive of Cloud Peak a major coal producer in Wyoming the nations largest coal mining state also wrote to Mr. Trump By remaining in the Paris agreement albeit with a much different pledge on emissions you can help shape a more rational international approach to climate policy. Regardless of his decision Mr. Trump has already undermined the United States ability to meet its Paris pledge. Mr. Obama declared that the United States would reduce its planet warming carbon pollution about 26 percent from 2005 levels by 2025. Its primary policy for meeting that target would be the Clean Power Plan a set of Environmental Protection Agency regulations designed to shutter hundreds of heavily polluting coal fired power plants the nations chief source of greenhouse emissions. Last month Mr. Trump directed Scott Pruitt the head of the Environmental Protection Agency to begin the legal process of dismantling the Clean Power Plan. Whether or not the United States remains in the Paris pact it almost certainly will not be able to meet its pledged pollution reduction targets. Mr. Pruitt has emerged as a leading voice for withdrawal from the Paris deal. Last week he told Fox News Its something we need to exit. That reflects the views of powerful conservative political advocacy groups such as Americans for Prosperity which is funded by the influential libertarian brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch. What we say to the White House is that its clearly a terrible agreement for the American people said Tim Phillips the president of Americans for Prosperity. That view is also backed by economists at the Heritage Foundation the conservative think tank that has supplied the Trump administration with many of its policy proposals. Harold G. Hamm the chief executive of Continental Resources and a Trump campaign adviser has also condemned the pact. Cancel the Paris climate treaty and any other agreements entered into unilaterally and without the consent of Congress Mr. Hamm wrote in a letter to Mr. Trump before his inauguration. Bob Murray the chief executive of the coal company Murray Energy who is personally close with the president has also strongly criticized the deal. Mr. Book the analyst noted that the risks of withdrawing from the Paris deal include not only diplomatic ill will but also the possibility of trade reprisals. Countries that tax emissions of carbon dioxide pollution could place a carbon tariff on imports of American made goods. The European Union currently charges polluters fees for carbon emissions while China Mexico and Canada are in the process of carrying out such programs. If the U.S. were to pull out it would do so in the context that would invite trade reprisals Mr. Book said. It could lead to a carbon tariff trade war. Daniel M. Bodansky an expert in international environmental agreements at Arizona State University said that remaining in the Paris deal but weakening the United States commitment could still have the effect of generating some ill will but without the repercussions of trade sanctions. They could just submit a new plan he said. People internationally would not be happy but theyd be a lot less unhappy than if the U.S. actually pulled out.	True	True	False	True	True
Climate Report Warns Of Extreme Weather Displacement Of Millions Without Action Some of the world's top climate scientists have concluded that global warming is likely to reach dangerous levels unless new technologies are developed to remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. The United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC says pledges from the world's governments to reduce greenhouse gases made in Paris in 2015 aren't enough to keep global warming from rising more than 1.5 degrees Celsius 2.7 degrees F above pre industrial temperatures. That was the Paris agreement's most ambitious target a 2 degree C rise was established as a more practical goal. But even with a 1.5 degree C increase the world can expect serious changes to weather sea levels agriculture and natural eco systems according to a report issued Monday following an IPCC meeting in South Korea. Limiting warming to 1.5 C is possible within the laws of chemistry and physics says Jim Skea of Imperial College London one of the authors of the report but doing so would require unprecedented changes. Scientists and climate researchers have long doubted that the 1.5 degree C goal was practical or economically feasible. Their new report lays out the difficulty in stark detail it would require a 40 50 percent reduction in emissions by 2030 global emissions are currently rising. It would mean a carbon neutral world one with no net additional greenhouse gases in the atmosphere by 2050. They now say that scenario is very unlikely without new measures and technologies to remove greenhouse gases from the air some of which have yet to be invented. We have a monumental task in front of us says co author Natalie Mahowald from Cornell University but it is not impossible. In 50 years she says it's going to be very different. This is our chance to decide what that road will look like. The IPCC report holds out hope that if the global climate warms more than the 1.5 degree or even the 2 degree target this overshoot could be reversed with carbon removal techniques. It suggests numerous ways to take carbon dioxide CO2 the leading greenhouse gas out of the atmosphere. Growing more forests which absorb CO2 is one tactic. But research shows that the amount of land needed for that would be formidable. Another possibility involves burning biomass to make electricity instead of using fossil fuels. Currently about 1 percent of electricity in the U.S. is made that way using things like waste wood and agricultural material. It's expensive however. Crops like corn are now turned into ethanol but that raises food prices. To be economical the biomass would have to be agricultural waste or special crops like switchgrass that don't compete with food crops. There are experimental methods now that can take CO2 directly out of the air after which it could be buried. But billions of tons of CO2 would have to come out and these techniques now cost as much as 1000 to extract a single ton of CO2 according to Howard Herzog an engineer at MIT who specializes in these carbon capture technologies. CO2 is a tiny percentage of the air Herzog likens the technique to removing 400 CO2 marbles from a pile of one million marbles. The best way to remove CO2 from the air he says in his book Carbon Capture is to not release it into the air in the first place. Herzog calls most of these extraction ideas more of a hope than a reality. He says it comes down to cost and it's a lot cheaper to take it out now by reducing emissions than in the future. But most governments now fear the cost of a global overhaul of the world's energy economy in the short time needed to meet the Paris climate goals. As the report concludes There is no simple answer to the questions of whether it is feasible to limit warming to 1.5 C and to adapt to the consequences.... However it does make clear the consequences of warming above that level more heat waves more severe rain and snow events higher sea levels damage to agriculture and displacement of millions of people.	True	False	False	True	False
Buildings disappear in the smog in Ulaanbaatar where residents have resorted to sipping 'lung' tea and 'oxygen cocktails' in a desperate bid to protect themselves from pollution Fed up with the smog in Mongolia's capital residents have resorted to sipping lung tea and oxygen cocktails in a desperate bid to protect themselves from pollution despite health officials saying there is no evidence they work. Ulaanbaatar topped New Delhi and Beijing as the world's most polluted capital in 2016 UNICEF said in a report warning of a health crisis that has put every child and pregnancy at risk. With residents of so called ger slum districts using coal stoves to cook and heat their homes in the world's coldest capital where temperatures can dip as low as 40 Celsius 40 Fahrenheit pollution has skyrocketed. While most of the pollution comes from stoves in the gers road transport and power plants add to the toxic mix. On January 30 air pollution was 133 times higher than the safe limit set by the World Health Organization WHO. UNICEF reported that cases of respiratory infections have nearly tripled and pneumonia is now the second leading cause of death for children under five. Worried parents have held protests to press the government to take action. But some businesses are cashing in even though a WHO official says there is no evidence that such anti smog products work. Batbayariin Munguntuul sitting with her children while an air purifier runs at her home in Ulaanbaatar Advertisements in Mongolia boast that drinking just one oxygen cocktail is equal to a three hour walk in a lush forest. At the produce section of the State Department Store blue cans of oxygen called Life Is Air are on sale for 2 and promise to turn a glass of juice into a foamy sweet oxygen cocktail after spraying some into a glass through a special straw. Other stores and pharmacies have oxygen cocktail machines that resemble coffee makers and can turn a juice into a frothy drink for 1. Pregnant women are among the most avid customers of the Russian made product with some saying they are following their doctor's orders. Batbayar Munguntuul a 34 year old accountant and mother of three drank oxygen cocktails when she was pregnant but she ended up spending much more money on medicine. Every winter we constantly buy medicine she told AFP. It has reached a point that it is like just any other grocery product that you have to buy regularly. Like many other Mongolians she has chosen to buy an air purifier to make sure her family breathes clean air at home. Her machine which filters out toxic fumes cost her 300. The average level of PM2.5 particles which penetrate deep into the lungs was 75 micrograms per cubic metre last year or three times the exposure recommended by the WHO for a 24 hour period. Air pollution has been linked to asthma bronchitis and other long term respiratory diseases. Some Mongolians drinking special teas named Enkhjin Ikh Taiga and Dr. Baatar that claim to clean lungs. Dr. Baatar's CEO Baatar Chantsaldulam said sales surge by 20 to 30 percent during winter when pollution tends to reach its peak. First it takes all the toxins out of the blood then it turns the toxins in the lung into mucus and all the plants in tea helps boost the human immune system he told AFP. But Maria Neira the head of the WHO's public health department said the real solution to protect the lungs and the cardiovascular system was to reduce air pollution and avoid exposure to it. The business community will offer plenty of those solutions Neira said referring to the oxygen cocktails and lung teas. We don't have any scientific evidence whether they provide any benefit she said. For the past 10 years people have known that air pollution has reached dangerous levels Parents Against Smog coordinator Tumur Mandakhjargal told AFP. However policymakers only address the issue by talking about passing out clean stoves and clean coal Mandakhjargal said. The NGO says the government should give some 200000 ger residents access to loans so that they install heating insulation and replace their stoves with cleaner heaters. It also complains that a ger relocation plan has been too slow. The government spent 120 million between 2008 2016 to combat pollution with half of the funds coming out of its foreign aid revenue. Part of the money has gone to distributing low emission stoves to residents of ger districts. Last year the parliament approved a tax exemption for companies that sell air purifiers while Prime Minister Ukhnaa Khurelsukh issued an order to distribute 1.6 million worth of the appliances to all schools. Non profit organisations are giving away air purifiers and anti smog masks to schools kindergartens and hospitals. The non profit group Smog and Kids donated a South Korean made air ventilation system to a kindergarten in one of the capital's most polluted areas and the difference in air quality inside and outside the classrooms is palpable. Such systems can cost up to 2500 plus 500 for installation. But Smog and Kids representative Tumendalai Davaadalai said air purifiers were not the answer to the problem. Mobile air purifiers don't give oxygen they're not plants. The decision by Khurelsukh's cabinet to distribute air purifiers is a very bad decision Davaadalai said. They are just funding businesses without any positive results.	True	False	False	False	False
Speaking at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow slammed the progressive proposal that was recently introduced by Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez of New York and Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts. Kudlow said the deal will knock out energy transportation airlines jobs businesses. We'll probably lose 10 to 15 of our GDP. It's remarkable. The package of legislation is aimed at among other things addressing climate change. It would phase out fossil fuel use and calls for the elimination of greenhouse gas emissions and pollution in agriculture transportation manufacturing and construction. The deal describes a 10 year economic mobilization that would overhaul the nation's infrastructure and build new layers into the existing social safety net. It calls for the creation of millions of new high wage jobs to help wipe out poverty. The resolution co sponsored by several Democrats running for President in 2020 has been heavily criticized by those on the right. Kudlow likened the deal to socialism and called for the American people to put socialism on trial and convict it. The resolution proposes providing all people of the United States with i high quality health care ii affordable safe and adequate housing iii economic security and iv access to clean water clean air healthy and affordable food and nature. The deal proposes guaranteeing a job with a family sustaining wage adequate family and medical leave paid vacations and retirement security to all people of the United States. Kudlow said universal health care and ending private insurance were also crazy ideas citing high costs. He said guaranteed jobs free to those who don't want to work probably cost 45 trillion. Earlier this week Ivanka Trump a senior White House adviser and the President's daughter was asked about the Green New Deal proposal and what she would say to people who are enticed by the proposal's job guarantee. In response Ivanka Trump said I don't think most Americans in their heart want to be given something adding People want to work for what they get so I think this idea of a guaranteed minimum is not something most people want. Ocasio Cortez fired back on Twitter and said A living wage isn't a gift it's a right. Workers are often paid far less than the value they create.	True	False	False	False	False
Celebrities often claim to be concerned about the environment usually without changing their lavish lifestyles or pollution. During a telethon fundraiser on Sept. 12 for Harvey and Irma relief celebrities like Beyonce linked manmade climate change to the hurricanes. But the very stars participating in the telethon burn massive amounts of carbon dioxide by their extravagant lifestyles just as Daily Mail reported on Sept. 13. The effects of climate change are playing out around the world every day Beyonce claimed in a pre recorded message. But if Beyonce and other celebrities were so concerned about a supposed connection between the devastation and climate change why have they continued to ignore their own carbon gluttony? The A list celebrities who starred in the telethon for those affected by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma have clocked up hundreds of thousands of air miles which have fuelled rising temperatures and helped create devastating storms Daily Mail foreign reporter Gareth Davies wrote. Climate change activists often claim carbon emissions from driving and flying are a significant cause of man made warming. Davies found that in just the past year Leonardo DiCaprio George Clooney Justin Bieber and Beyonce produced at least 52.11 tons of carbon dioxide with their air travel alone. Biebers jet setting had the highest carbon footprint an egregious 22 tons. In comparison the average Americans total carbon footprint is 20 tons. According to Davies if driving pollution from their concerts or films and the electric in their homes are considered the total was likely to be astronomic. Although DiCaprio is a self proclaimed environmentalist he continued to live an incompatible lifestyle of massive carbon emissions. For the 2017 Oscars DiCaprio and a fellow actor flew an someone 15000 miles round trip to tidy their eyebrows. The actor also asked if are we too late to stop climate change and blasted the supposed corporate greed of the coal oil and gas industries in January 2016. All while owning multiple mansions vacationing on yachts and flying thousands of miles in private jets. Even Forbes noted DiCaprio himself is one of those big polluters which diminishes his moral authority to lecture others on reducing their own carbon emissions in March 2016. Forbes also challenged DiCaprios claim that he only produces 11 tons of carbon annually. Clooney criticized global warming skeptics as stupid and ridiculous in 2013. Despite his rhetoric on climate change however the actor and his wife Amal owned eight homes as of March 2016 according to the Daily Mail. Other celebrities like Julia Roberts are also eco hypocrites. In 2011 she co wrote a USA Today op ed demanding cleaner cooking stoves in third world countries to combat climate change. Yet she has owned five homes and a private jet all at the same time. More than 45 celebrities took part in the fundraiser which brought in more than 44 million. All of the celebrities most likely live far more lavish carbon burning lives than average Americans.	True	False	False	True	False
President Donald Trump is making good on his campaign promise to pull the US out of the Paris climate agreement a move thats been called a moral disgrace and thats expected to hinder much needed progress in the fight against global warming. A failure to tackle climate change will mean more extreme weather dirtier air and water and more food shortages. Itll also mean more disease. Researchers have long been arguing that the effects of climate change could undermine the last 50 years of gains in global health increasing the spread of infections like yellow fever and chronic diseases like asthma and heart disease. Now is not the time to be scaling back efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The December 2015 agreement which has been signed by nearly 200 countries aimed to cut greenhouse gas emissions and keep global warming below 2 degrees Celsius. The US had committed to cutting its emissions by up to 28 percent from 2005 levels by 2025. These goals were widely viewed as a win for public health. Americas retreat now could be a major setback. There are a number of ways climate change puts us at a greater risk for disease. Chief among them a warmer planet is one thats more hospitable to disease. Disease carrying vectors like mosquitoes thrive in warm and moist environments. Zika dengue and chikungunya are all spread by the Aedes type mosquito. And one of the reasons researchers think Aedes may be reaching new places and more people lately is climate change. Its not just mosquitoes though Bird flu cholera Lyme disease salmonella researchers believe all are being made worse by climate change. At a February meeting on climate change and health former Vice President Al Gore focused his talk on this problem. Climate change is tilting the balance disrupting natural ecosystems and giving more of an advantage to microbes he said. Changing climate conditions change the areas in which these diseases can take root and become endemic. Read Maryn McKennas New York Times story for more on this. In addition deforestation and urbanization are moving humans into areas where they havent lived before and putting them into closer contact with animals that carry disease causing microbes like bats during West Africas 2014 Ebola outbreak. Brian Deese a senior adviser to President Barack Obama overseeing climate change and energy policy and former Ebola czar Ron Klain explained why in a piece at the Washington Post Climate change destroys habitats and stresses animal populations such as the bats of West Africa forcing them to hunt for food nearer to humans. Humans likewise pressed by climate impacts encroach more closely on animal habitats. While we cannot know that climate change was the cause of the specific interaction between bats and humans that is believed to have launched the Ebola outbreak in Guinea we will see more of these interactions in the future and more epidemics as a result. Ebola demonstrates that even localized dislocation of people and animals can create global risk. Climate change is a threat multiplier for much broader dislocation accelerating the complex factors that drive people from their homes. Greenhouse gases are not only harmful to the environment they also increase the risk of everything from asthma to heart disease. According to the Global Burden of Disease project more than 5 million people die worldwide each year because of air pollution and emissions from coal fired plants are a major risk factor here. Its one reason why health experts have been pushing policymakers to rapidly phase out of coal. For miners the immediate health risks include black lung disease and scarring of the lung tissue. But the pollutants emitted when coal is processed including sulfur dioxide particulate matter nitrogen oxides and mercury have much more far reaching effects on many more people. In one large study involving 450000 Americans followed between 1982 and 2004 researchers found that increased exposure to the particles in fossil fuel emissions increased the risk of death from heart disease and particles from coal burning were five times more damaging than other similar particles. Reducing emissions from coal fired power plants makes it easier to breathe. Over the past 30 years the percentage of Americans with asthma has more than doubled and climate change has been a significant driver of that trend. Air pollution triggers asthma attacks contributing to lung abnormalities particularly in the developing pulmonary systems of children. The Paris agreement was no panacea but it nudged the world in the right direction. Now the US moves backward. Its not just the future of the environment thats at stake here. Our health hangs in the balance too.	True	False	False	True	False
Julin Castro is a Texan an attorney a former mayor of San Antonio juliC3A1n and former cabinet secretary Housing and Urban Development in the Obama administration juliC3A1n castro. He has an identical twin walking the halls of Congress a mother who is a civil rights activist castro unlikely journey.html and two young children boy hud secr julian castro wife welcome second child n276251. Castro a third generation Mexican American worked as an intern for one president Bill Clinton t.html?r2pagewantedall and delivered the keynote address transcript julian castros dnc keynote address at the Democratic national convention for another Barack Obama. He doesnt drink alcohol castro likes Jay Z and Billy Joel feature7340848 julian castro hud secretary interview music stars making difference presidential election donald trump hillary clinton and grew up a Philadelphia Eagles fan n castro talks wendy davis football rivalries and more. Now hes a presidential candidate too. Here is where Castro stands on some of the key issues of the 2020 election cycle. Climate change and energy Rejoin the Paris Climate Treaty. Work with businesses. Castro has criticized President Donald Trump span.orgvideo?440838 1julian castro delivers speech rally hampshire for withdrawing from the Paris climate change accord. Castros overall approach in public office was to try to convince businesses to increase their reliance on renewable energy voluntarily. While he was mayor of San Antonio the local utility committed to close a coal plant castro is obamas newest climate denizen452793 and embrace a 20 percent renewables goal. It is not clear if Castro supports a carbon tax or cap and trade policy to reduce carbon emissions. Education Establish universal pre K education. Provide two free years of higher education. As mayor of San Antonio Castro convinced voters to raise taxes one eighth of a cent to create the citys pre kindergarten program antonio pre k program mayor julian castro 215497 for four year olds. He supports universal pre kindergarten nationally transcript 19 rep adam smith rep lizstory?id60183722 and would like to make the first two years of higher education free. He has not yet offered specifics on his plans. Gun control Require universal background checks ban assault weapons. A longtime gun control advocate Castro has pushed for renewing the assault weapons ban joaqun castro call discussion gun lawsstory?id18007281 limiting high capacity magazines and requiring background checks at gun shows Health care Create a universal health care system Medicare for all. Castro has called for universal health care span.orgvideo?440838 1julian castro delivers speech rally hampshire also referring to it as Medicare for all transcript 19 rep adam smith rep lizstory?id60183722. He indicated he would consider paying for such a system by raising taxes on corporations and on the wealthiest 0.05 0.5 or 1 percent of Americans. Immigration ICE and the border Allow a path to citizenship house committee spars with san antonio mayor.html for most undocumented immigrants. Reconstitute U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE. Castro supports comprehensive immigration reform including a path to citizenship for most of the estimated 11 million undocumented people in the United States. Castro opposes Trumps border wall plan castro hopes us mexico partnership continues under trump and instead has proposed securing the border by using technology and a more efficient legal immigration process. When asked if he thinks ICE should be abolished as some Democrats argued in the run up to the 2018 midterms Castro told Bustle he thinks the agency needs to change its culture and be reconstituted. Social issues Abortion should remain legal after 20 weeks. Gay marriage is a protected right. Transgender Americans should be able to serve in the military. Castro is a Roman Catholic who supports legal abortion access and gay rights. He vigorously opposed a Texas law Davis Juli n Castro rally abortion rights 4660994.php to ban abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy and limit facilities and access to abortions in general. Castro has long supported same sex marriage serving as Grand Marshal parade.html of the 2009 San Antonio Gay Pride parade. In 2017 he tweeted that the military should allow Americans of all gender identities to serve in the military. Syria Withdraw U.S. presence over a planned period of time. In an appearance on NBCs Meet The Press last month Castro said it was time for us to pull out of Syria the press meet press december 23 2018 n951396 but insisted it must be on a planned timeline. He criticized Trumps sudden announcement of a potential withdrawal as not the way it should be done. Trade Renegotiate NAFTA. As mayor of San Antonio Castro strongly supported NAFTA policy facts about dnc keynote speaker julian castro?utmterm.b3d077e12f8a and expanding the trade deal. He has said span.orgvideo?445578 4 washington journal julian castro discusses federal housing policyplayEvent that he believes the agreement should be renegotiated to strengthen worker and environmental protections. 	False	True	True	True	False
As the Trump White House continues its cleanup of the mess foreign and domestic left behind by the Obama administration it should toss out a little noticed document that entangles the U.S. in some of the worst schemes ever cooked up by U.N. bureaucrats and their cronies in the global environmental movement. On September 16 2016 the Obama EPA entered into a memorandum of understanding MOU with the United Nations Environmental Programme UNEP. Concluded just a few weeks before the 2016 presidential election the MOU bears the signature for the U.S. of then EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy. In the document UNEP and the Obama EPA vow to consolidate further develop and intensify their cooperation and effectiveness to achieve their common goals and objectives in the field of the environment. And therein lies the problem. For the common goals and objectives shared by the U.N. body and the Obama administration are specifically crafted to hamstring American fossil fuel energy development promote an assortment of politically fashionable but otherwise uncompetitive green technologies and products and perpetuate the deplorable living conditions in the worlds poorest countries. An Instrument of the Paris Climate Accord The document was signed nine months after the adoption of the U.N. sponsored Paris climate accord and the wording of the MOU leaves little doubt that it was seen as an instrument to underscore Americas commitment to curtail its production and use of energy in the name of combatting climate change. Thus UNEP and the Obama EPA agreed to cooperate on responses to climate change including mitigating greenhouse gas emissions reducing short lived climate forcers and supporting adaptation and resilience to climate change. Taking these and similar steps the MOU says will enable the advance toward green economies and resource efficient societies through collaborative activities to promote and support sustainable consumption and production. In truth green economies are those with taxpayer subsidized and government mandated renewable energy primarily wind and solar. And what constitutes sustainable consumption and production is in the eyes of the beholding bureaucrat empowered either by the administrative regulatory state or by legislation adopted at the behest of deep pocketed special interests. All of this is to be pursued through jointly held symposia seminars workshops study tours collaborative research and development projects exchanges and training programs and other forms of cooperation that strengthen the bonds between UNEP and the U.S. Under the MOU each side is to name a Senior Coordinator to oversee the holding of regular joint meetings on matters of common interest. To make sure the two sides stay in touch such meetings are to take place at least once every six months in accordance with an agenda approved by them in advance of every meeting. The outfit the Obama administration teamed up within the MOU UNEP was founded in 1972 by wealthy Canadian businessman Maurice Strong it is headquartered in Nairobi Kenya and has an office conveniently located in Washington D.C. Strong 19292015 was Under Secretary General of the U.N. when he founded UNEP and was an early advocate for combatting what he said was human induced climate change then known as global warming. In keeping with Strongs vision UNEP has worked closely with the Bonn based United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC. For its part UNFCCC has enthusiastically spread climate alarmism and gone to extraordinary lengths to deny the residents of the worlds poorest access to reliable and affordable electricity and transportation fuel thereby perpetuating their poverty. Given UNEPs pedigree and the Obama administrations unbridled hostility to fossil fuels President Trump should scrap the UNEP EPA MOU. Trump and EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt inherited the MOU from their predecessors and are under no obligation to adhere to its content. The White House has already withdrawn from the Paris climate accord and President Trump chose to skip the climate change session at the recent G7 meeting in Quebec. Continued fealty to the Obama era MOU runs counter to the presidents goal of American global energy dominance which is anchored to our abundance of oil natural gas and coal. The ties that bound the UN and the Obama administration should not be allowed to constrain the choices of everyday Americans. Even if the MOU is non binding so too are the commitments all parties agreed to under the Paris climate accord. But recognizing the threat the Paris accord posed to U.S. energy security the Trump White House wisely walked away from it. The UNEP EPA memorandum is little more than an implementation tool of the Paris agreement and should suffer the same fate. Both are part of what is at its core a decidedly anti American agenda. Bonner R. Cohen Ph.D is a senior policy analyst with the Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow CFACT. The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of The Daily Caller.	False	False	False	True	True
A Tesla Model 3 is touted as a zero emissions car by government regulators but it actually results in more carbon dioxide than a comparable diesel powered car according to a recent study. When the CO2 emissions from battery production is included electric cars like Teslas are in the best case slightly higher than those of a diesel engine and are otherwise much higher reads a release from the German think tank IFO. Its better read as a warning that new technologies arent a climate change panacea. Recall the false promises about corn and cellulosic ethanol The Wall Street Journal editorial board wrote of the study. RELATED 2020 Democrats Back Plan Thats Already Raising Electricity Prices Driving a Tesla Model 3 in Germany for example is responsible for 156 to 181 grams of CO2 per kilometer compared to just 141 grams per kilometer for a diesel powered Mercedes C220d that includes emissions from producing diesel fuel. IFO looked at electric car production in Germany which is heavily reliant on coal power. Electric car emissions in other countries depend on their energy mix but Germany is the worlds third largest electric car maker. China and the U.S. are the first and second largest electric car producers respectively. China gets 65 percent of its electricity from coal power and the U.S. relies on coal for 27 percent of its electric power. China is also the top battery producing country using coal power to produce batteries for electric vehicles that are then subsidized for being zero emissions. California for example requires automakers to cut greenhouse gas emissions in cars by producing lower emissions vehicles or buying credits from companies like Tesla that make electric vehicles. At the federal level the U.S. gives tax breaks of up to 7500 per electric vehicle. Federal subsidies for Teslas are set to be phased out since the company founded by Elon Musk hit the 200000 vehicle production cap. However Congress is debating whether or not to extend electric car subsidies. Its not just battery production but charging vehicles that emit lots of CO2. Germany gets 35 percent of its electricity from coal fired power plants so charging a Tesla in say Bavaria results in 83 grams of CO2 per kilometer driven. Over the long term hydrogen methane technology offers a further advantage it allows surplus wind and solar power generated during peaks to be stored and these surpluses will see a sharp increase as the share of this renewable energy grows study co author Christoph Buchal professor of physics at the University of Cologne said in a statement. IFO isnt the first research group to conclude electric cars might not reduce carbon dioxide emissions as promised. A study released in 2018 also found driving electric cars might come with higher emissions than diesel vehicles largely because of lithium ion battery production. Likewise a Manhattan Institute study from 2018 also found putting more electric cars on the road would likely increase emissions compared to internal combustion engine vehicles. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	True	False	True	True
Over 250000 Americans and 500 organizations submitted comments rejecting the US Department of Agricultures USDA proposal to approve genetically engineered eucalyptus trees for planting. If approved the trees would be planted in seven southern states. Public comments on the USDAs draft environmental impact statement dEIS closed on Wednesday. The agency will now evaluate the comments for a final review on whether to approve the GE trees. Activists from the South Pacific Islands Southern Asia and North and South America weighed in rejecting all genetically engineered trees including field trials. Critics of the dEIS said the USDA downplayed the risks posed by the GE trees. The agency predicts GE eucalyptus plantations would cover over 1 million across seven states from coastal South Carolina to eastern Texas. The GE eucalyptus trees developed by biotech companies such as FuturaGene and ArborGen are designed to tolerate freezing temperatures and to help feed demand for pulp and paper production biomass pellets for electricity and fuel for cars. Anne Petermann executive director at the Global Justice Ecology Project said the tradition has been for the government to rubberstamp genetically engineered organisms but this would be the first time they are approving a genetically engineered forest tree. She said ArborGen asked for approval to legalize the trees six years ago. They USDA are really taking their time with it becuase they know there is overwhelming public opposition to the plan Petermann told RT. Petermann said there is a lack of independent research on the long term or even short term consequences of putting genetically engineered trees out into the environment and that the risks could be significant. We are talking about forest ecosystems that have evolved over millions of years Petermann said. Planting eucalyptus trees with mutations in their genomes how are these organisms going to interact with the forest? How are they going to interact with soil micro organisms? Those studies have not been done and that is one of the major points in the comments. Petermann said if the studies were to be done they would have to be carried out over the full life of the tree between 50 to 100 years. As that is not likely to happen she said there is no way to know the full scope of the risks. Eucalyptus trees are the number one industrial tree plantation used in Latin America Africa and Asia traditionally in tropical areas where commerce appreciates their fast growth and versatility. The forest products industry is worth 400 billion a year. This technology is worth billions of dollars a year. If you can increase yields by 40 percent you can greatly reduce prices. Eucalyptus today are harvested at seven years in Brazil we are looking to produce the same sized trees in five and a half years Stanley Hirsch chief executive of the Israeli biotech company FuturaGene told the Guardian in 2012 over its plans to plant GM eucalyptus in Brazil. Documented as an invasive species around the world the trees have escaped the limits of their plantations in South Africa and shown up in native grasslands and in Chile where they are showing up in the forests. In the US the trees only grow in Southern Florida and California hence the need for a genetically engineered variety to withstand temperature variations in other states. Petermann said another red flag is wildfires. She points to the massive wildlife that hit Portugal last month that left 60 people dead and one that happened in Chile in January. Both were fed by eucalyptus plantations. Eucalyptus is extremely flammable said Petermann. Combine that with dry conditions which these trees exacerbate because they drink so much you end with these incredible firestorms. The US southeast is already experiencing repeated droughts it is already experiencing heatwaves it is the last place to plant a eucalyptus plantation. Among other commentators was former NASA scientist Kate Cato who lives in the US south and has mapped parts of Mars. She said it was clear that the planet once had rivers and great amounts of water and possibly an atmosphere similar to ours but a global catastrophe had happened. She said the effects of invasive species such as kudzu lionfish and Australian pines have already caused chaos in the southern states where they lack predators and displace native plants and animals and already cost the states millions of dollars in losses and eradication.	False	False	False	True	False
CNN will host a seven hour marathon of interviews with 10 presidential candidates about climate change on Wednesday beginning at 5 pm Eastern as part of its climate crisis town hall. A live stream of the town hall will air on CNN.com. You can also stream it via CNN apps on iOS Android Apple TV Roku Amazon Fire Chromecast and Android TV. The forum will also be broadcast on SiriusXM Channels 116 454 795 and the Westwood One Radio Network. Here is the format The audience will be composed of selected Democrats independents and stakeholders. No public tickets will be issued. That a major television network would devote so much time to a single issue is a sign of how important climate change has become for Democrats and how successful activists have been in elevating the issue. Climate change has rocketed up the list of concerns for primary voters with some polls showing climate change as the number one issue and other indicating that strong majorities want robust climate action from the White House. Activists groups like the Sunrise Movement have refused to let the Democratic National Committee ignore the issue holding sit ins outside their headquarters to demand a climate debate. The DNC responded that it will not hold a climate change debate for 2020 presidential contenders nor will it allow candidates to attend a third party debate. But CNN and MSNBC have found a loophole in the rules that still permits candidates to attend televised forums and town halls. CNN did not respond to requests for comment. MSNBCs climate forum is scheduled for September 19 and 20. In the past few months candidates have been steadily releasing their own visions for how to limit warming this century. Washington Gov. Jay Inslee who made climate change the centerpiece of his presidential campaign and put out the most comprehensive policy agenda is now out of the race giving other candidates some room to distinguish themselves on the issue. Several candidates including Booker Buttigieg and Harris are issuing new climate plans this week. For the most part the Democratic presidential contenders agree that climate change demands a serious policy response and that the US needs to become carbon neutral by roughly the middle of the century. And indeed many have voiced support for the Green New Deal and most have pledged to refuse donations from the fossil fuel industry. The main differences among the candidates lie in how much political capital they intend to expend on fighting climate change and what they would do with executive authority. The town hall will give them an opportunity to present their plans in greater detail and with more nuance. In the prior two rounds of presidential debates spanning more than eight hours climate change received just 35 minutes of airtime. Much of the discussion was shallow and uninformative partly a consequence of having to split attention across 20 candidates. A forum format with one on one discussions with the candidates could better get at these distinctions forcing candidates to make the affirmative case for their own policies rather than sniping at those from other candidates. On the other hand a candidate in the hot seat wont receive any direct challenges from their opponents. It would behoove the networks to focus their discussion on getting at these subtle differences among the candidates like what executive orders they would sign how high climate change ranks as a priority and what measures would a candidate pursue to ensure a just transition to clean energy. Voxs David Roberts and I have come up with some questions that could serve as starting points. CNNs climate change forum has immense potential to illuminate real differences among the candidates and inform the public about the often weedy details of climate policy. However it remains to be seen if there is an audience with a seven hour attention span for a single issue. And theres always the risk that it could devolve into rote recitals of platitudes. Heres to hoping we learn something new.	False	True	False	True	True
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke spent the last week targeting environmental groups that have for years opposed activities like logging and thinning to reduce the risks of catastrophic wildfires on federal lands. The former Montana congressman blamed litigation from radical environmentalists who would rather see forests and communities burn than see a logger in the woods in a USA Todayop edpublished Wednesday. Zinke also called out extreme environmentalists in aninterviewwith KCRA that aired Sunday. The day before that Zinke lambasted environmental terrorists groups that have not allowed public access that refuse to allow harvest of timber in aninterviewwith Breitbart Radio. Deadly wildfires have consumed over 1 million acres in West Coast states damaging structures and forcing thousands to flee their homes. The recent death of a firefighter battling the nearly 350000 acre Mendocino Complex Fire brings thedeath tollto six for this season. So whats the point of attacking environmentalists? Zinke is taking the conversation away from global warming and bringing it back to land management including the litigation and environmental laws that keep officials from actively managing the forests. Instead activists focus on global warming arguing human caused warming has expanded wildfire season due to longer hotter drier conditions in the western states. At the same time these groups often oppose efforts to clear forests of debris and dead wood that fuel fires when hot dry weather sets in every year. Ive heard the climate change argument back and forth Zinke told the Sacramento based KCRA. This has nothing to do with climate change. This has to do with active forest management.RELATED Californias Biggest Utility Continues To Blame Global Warming For Wildfires Started By Its Own Power Lines Wildfire experts tend to see land management and urban growth as prime drivers of wildfires. Many experts also see global warming as a factor in the rise of fires but admit the relationship is more complicated than the media lets on. The story cant be a simply that warming is increasing the numbers of wildfires in California because the number of fires is declining. And area burned has not been increasing either University of Washington climate scientist Cliff Masswrotein a recent blog post. In fact the recent National Climate Assessmentspecial reportgave low to medium confidence for a detectable human climate change contribution in the western United States based on existing studies. Most wildfires are caused by humans mostly unintentionally. Sparks from vehicles or equipment power lines arson and cigarettes are some of the ways humans cause massive blazes. Lightning is the cause of wildfires humans dont spark. In California for example humanscaused95 percent of all wildfires with power lines and utility equipment becoming a growing problem. Research also shows that wildfire season has primarily grown from population growth in fire prone areas increasing the chances of a fire causing spark. Environmentalists have obviously not taken kindly to Zinkes remarks but are particularly incensed by his dismissal of global warming as a driver of catastrophic wildfires. Randi Spivak public lands program director at the Center for Biological Diversity said the administration is missing the main issue by being dismissive of climate changes effect on the fires. Climate change creates drought high wind conditions low humidity. Fire creates its own weather Randi Spivak the public lands director at the Center for Biological DiversitytoldThe Hill. You can thin all you want till the cows come home but fire will overtake that Spivak said adding what is misleading is people like Zinke and other people who refuse to talk about climate change and how we need to tackle that. Name calling and finger pointing wont change the truth that climate change is exacerbating wildfiresechoedthe Sierra Clubs Athan Manuel. The long term safety of our communities relies on reducing carbon pollution. Zinke actually did say fire season had gotten longer and temperatures had warmed but added that doesnt relieve you of the responsibility to remove the dead and dying timber and manage our forests so you dont have these catastrophic burns. But Zinke is correct that environmental litigation has kept federal agencies including the Interior Department and U.S. Forest Service from thinning clearing debris and conducting prescribed burns to keep forest growth in check. A 2014studypublished in the Journal of Forestry found vegetative management or logging projects continued to be the dominant type of management activity involved in Forest Service land management litigation representing nearly three times more cases than any other type of management activity. The Forest Service was found more likely to lose cases where plaintiffs advocated for less resource use particularly in the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals where the agency won less than half its cases. In fact the 9th Circuit on Mondayoverturneda Forest Service plan for part of Idahos Payette National Forest. The judge sided with environmental groups and ruled renders the Project inconsistent with the desired vegetative conditions set forth in the Payette Forest Plan from 2003. The servicesplanthat got overturned included getting fire conditions toward historical range of variability to reduce wildland fire risk improve wildlife habitat through mechanical thinning harvest and prescribed burning.	True	True	False	False	True
The executive order titled Promoting Domestic Manufacturing and Job Creation Policies and Procedures Relating to Implementation of Air Quality Standards reverses an Obama era decision. The 2015 decision allowed the EPA to intervene in states that fail to meet National Ambient Air Quality Standards forcing them to adopt federal regulatory plans to reduce ozone emissions that generally come from power plants refineries and cement factories. It opens the door to drastic changes in how science is used to set clean air rules disqualifying huge amounts of peer reviewed public health research in favor of industry backed studies in a move that builds on steps EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has already taken. The order requires the EPA to speed up reviews of state plans to reduce air pollution setting a strict 18 month deadline and complete reviews of all pre construction permits for industry within a year. Construction permitting is primarily a state level issuethe language in the order critics say appears to be a dog whistle to polluters suggesting the EPA would pull back on any oversight. The purpose is that if states make determinations that are somewhat less than the rigor of what might be expected EPA wont second guess it Stan Meiburg a former acting deputy EPA administrator who spent 39 years at the agency told HuffPost by phone. Its a go ahead for industry that if they take their best shot at states the EPA wont be getting in the way. The orderinstructs the EPA to consider what countries that dont border the United States are doing to reduce pollution allowing the agency to compare U.S. regulations to those in developing nations like China and India. It also directs Pruitt to allow states to trade pollution permits a move environmentalists warn could make offsets nearly impossible to track and police. In what could be the most controversial part the order requires the EPAs science advisers to consider the downside of cleaner air rulessomething for which industry groups have clamored for years. They argue the policies could raise electricity costs and make things like air conditioning more expensive. That directive is likely to prompt watchdog groups to sue. The Supreme Court ruled unanimously in 2001 in a decision written by late Justice Antonin Scalia that the EPA cannot consider the costs of implementation when setting air quality standards. It marks the latest assault on clean air rules putting poor people and communities of color particularly at risk. People living below the poverty line were exposed to 1.35 times more particulate matter than those living above it according to a landmark EPA study released in February. People of color breathe in 1.2 times more particulate matter pollution and black people in particular are on average exposed to 1.54 times more particulate matter pollution than the general pollution. The National Association of the Advancement of Colored People released a report in February that found black people are exposed to air that is 38 percent more polluted than white people on average and they are 75 percent more likely to live in communities abutting industrial sites. People who are most affected by air pollution are the most vulnerable and these policy changes would mean even less protection for those people Janet McCabewho served as the assistant administrator for the EPAs Office of Air and Radiation until 2017 told HuffPost by phone. It could mean yet more pollution in their neighborhoods. The new order could put the administration at loggerheads with California regulators again. But the quiet rollout of the memorandum avoided swift criticisms. The California Air Resources Board told HuffPost the agency had not yet reviewed the ordered by Thursday afternoon. This is yet another example of this administration selling out our future to industry polluters its nothing more than a naked attempt to attack science gut our clean air protections and put polluter profits ahead of our health Sara Jordan a legislative representative at the nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters said in a statement.	True	False	False	True	True
Italian prime minister Paolo Gentiloni visited Assisi Wednesday to commemorate the feast of Italys patron St. Francis in conjunction with the towns announcement it was divesting itself of all oil coal and gas holdings in a gesture aimed against commonly cited causes of manmade global warming. The Franciscan monasterial complex in Assisi the spiritual home of the Franciscan friars throughout the world is among the 40 Catholic institutions and organizations jointly announcing their adherence to an international ecological campaign calling for the disinvestment from all fossil fuels in the hopes of combatting climate change. The Mayor of Assisi Stefania Proietti indicated the citys extensive olive groves as an effective tool for mitigating climate change because of the trees ability to absorb the large quantities of carbon dioxide it needs in order to grow and produce olives. In a world in which the ecological crisis is an external manifestation of the ethical cultural and spiritual crisis of modernity it is necessary to recall the values of custody of creation the preferential option for the poor and the peace that is built in everyday life including with attention to the care of the common home she said. The Assisi diocese joined the dioceses of Caserta and Gubbio in this symbolic gesture along with dozens of other Catholic organizations throughout the world such as the Archdiocese of Cape Town the Belgian bishops conference the German Bank for Church and Caritas. In this new wave of ethical investing the total figure of divestiture for the church groups involved has not been disclosed but is reportedly four times higher than a previous church record. Coordinating these efforts is the World Catholic Climate Change Movement which in January sponsored the first world conference on fossil fuel divestment from a Catholic perspective at Romes Pontifical Lateran University. The moral clarity of these 40 institutions is a source of deep joy said Toms Insua the director of the Movement. Their leadership is launching a path that the World Bank and its financial organs should follow. Considering that the World Bank is meeting these days in Washington we hope its leaders will notice that the fossil free movement has grown and is getting stronger. Christiana Figueres the former UN climate tsar who helped negotiate the Paris climate accord lauded the move as a further sign we are on the way to achieving our collective mission. I hope we will see more leaders like these 40 Catholic institutions commit because while this decision makes smart financial sense acting collectively to deliver a better future for everybody is also our moral imperative she said. Earlier this year Pope Francis momentarily departed from his denunciation of fossil fuels offering a large donation of tons of cost effective fuel briquettes to heat the homes of internally displaced persons IDPs in Ukraine. As part of the Pope for Ukraine initiative Francisdonatedmore than 2.5 tons of fuel per displaced family cared for by the parish of the Holy Theotokos in the village of Vilcha. The combustible fuel briquettes reportedly were sufficient to heat the homes and apartments of more than a hundred resettled families throughout the heating season and into the coming winter as well. The politically incorrect gift highlighted thecost effectivenessand ready availability of fossil fuels which were responsible for powering the industrial revolution throughout the developed world. Pope Francis has been a vocal advocate of clean renewable energy and the reduction of carbon emissions. His groundbreaking 2015 encyclicalletterLaudato Sion care for the environment was the first teaching letter of its sort in the history of the Catholic Church. In that text Francis wrote of an urgent need to take steps leading to the substitution of fossil fuels with alternative energy sources.	False	False	False	False	False
Investigators are looking into the Hanford nuclear facility in Washington state after contractors were filmed dumping radiation affected water and later tried to bury the evidence at the site of one of the largest nuclear cleanup efforts in the world. Several videos obtained by Seattles KING TV show workers at the Hanford facilitys Plutonium Finishing Plant PFP dumping liquids from large metal containers that are labeled Caution radioactive materials. In nearly 25 years of working here Ive never seen anything like that a Hanford worker told KING. The workers are employed by Washington River Protection Solutions WRPS the organization responsible for cleaning approximately 53 million gallons of high level radioactive and chemical waste stored in the containers at Hanford. The facility dates back to the Manhattan Project in the 1940s. For decades it produced the majority of the plutonium for the US nuclear weapons arsenal. In 1988 production stopped and the site became a burying ground for radioactive waste. Hanford has since become the most contaminated spot in the Western Hemisphere prompting a multi billion dollar clean up process that isnt expected to be completed until 2060. The soils under Hanford are extensively contaminated over a broad broad area. The one thing you dont want to do is create more waste sites said Dirk Dunning a chemical engineer and Hanford expert. WRPS told state investigators that workers dumped around 15 gallons of potentially toxic water on August 15 and 200 gallons on August 17 according to a document from the Department of Ecology. Washington law makes it a gross misdemeanor to discharge pollutants into the water or soil. The company was also required to report any discharge of toxic waste to the Department of Ecology within 24 hours. However WRPS did not report the discharges for nearly a month and a notification from the Department of Ecology shows the company only made the report days after KING emailed WRPS federal and state officials and the Environmental Crimes Unit of the state Office of the Attorney General about the incident. They knew it was wrong to dump the liquids but they did it anyway. They were hoping no one would question it. They definitely knew it should have been reported a WRPS employee said. WRPS had been tasked with digging up 18 underground nuclear waste hoses and putting them in containers which would then be buried in a nuclear waste dump at the facility. When workers found one of their containers filled with rainwater they decided to dump it onto the ground rather than testing the water or transferring it to new containers. A contract shows the company would earn 58333 for each hose that was removed for a total of more than 1 million dollars if they finished the project by September 30. WRPS dumped the toxic liquid in order to meet their deadline said Tom Carpenter executive director at Hanford Challenge a watchdog organization working to keep contractors working at the facility accountable. They are here for the money and thats it Carpenter told KING. This fee structure ignores human nature which is to take shortcuts to get the money without any accountability unless they get caught. The Department of Ecology has launched an investigation and has already been to the site to take soil samples to check for chemicals such as arsenic lead and fluorene at the first dumping site. However after WRPS did a radiological survey and identified beta and gamma radioactive contamination they removed the contaminated soil and surrounding debris which can no longer be tested by investigators. The disposal of radioactive waste at Hanford has been plagued with problems. RT visited the site last year after workers were evacuated from the facility due to a leak of thousands of gallons of toxic waste. Locals said that the site occasionally burps radiation which has led to a number of employees developing serious medical conditions over the years. In August the company tested more than 300 workers and found 20 percent tested positive for radiation contamination. The Department of Energy estimates that 444 billion gallons of radioactive material and chemical waste were discharged onto the grounds of the facility and into the Columbia River in the first 50 years since the facility opened. Dumping at the site without a permit became illegal after the nonprofit advocacy group Heart of America Northwest sued the Department of Energy in 1993. After seeing the recent footage of workers dumping the toxic waste at the site state Representative Gerry Pollet who also serves as the executive director of Heart of America Northwest called their actions outrageous. This is the kind of thing that caused Hanford to be the most contaminated place in the Western Hemisphere in the first place. I am shocked to see something like this in 2017 Pollet said. Its a crime. Im convinced by looking at this that youre witnessing a criminal violation of several statues not just one.	True	True	False	False	True
Trump regularly brags about making Americas air cleaner but evidence from his own Environmental Protection Agency EPA shows the opposite is happening The air we breathe is getting dirtier. New EPA data shows that since 2016 a decades long trend of improving air quality has started to backslide. In both 2017 and 2018 the number of unhealthy air days in metropolitan areas increased 15 compared to the last four years of President Obamas administration the Associated Press reported Tuesday. That's the exact opposite of what Trump regularly claims. During his embarrassing trip to Ireland in early June Trump said We have the cleanest air in the world in the United States and its gotten better since Im president. At his big rally Tuesday in Orlando Trump made a similar false claim We have among the cleanest and sharpest crystal clean youve heard me say it I want it crystal clean air and water anywhere on Earth. Air pollution leads to the premature death of 100000 Americans every year the AP reports and Trumps own EPA shows not only worse air pollution but a significant increase in the two worst categories very unhealthy and hazardous conditions. During the Trump administration U.S. cities saw air pollution in one of these two categories nearly 140 times which is almost three times as often as the average from 2013 to 2016. In fact the AP notes that the four years from 2013 and 2016 Obama's second term in office were a clean air heyday for America that boasted the fewest unhealthy air days since 1980. That heyday appears to be over for now. To make matters worse on Wednesday the EPA finalized what will be its biggest climate policy rollback according to the Washington Post. The new rule will allow coal plants to spew more pollution into the air than a previous rule put in place by President Obama. The new rule is really a dereliction of duty moral ethical but also legal Andres Restrepo a lawyer with the Sierra Club's Environmental Law Program told the Post. Scientists are unclear as to the exact reasons air pollution has gotten worse under Trump but they say its very clear that his policies will make the situation worse. There is zero reason to expect any other outcome than worsening air quality if Trump continues to roll back regulations Neil Donahue an engineering professor at Carnegie Mellon University told the AP. While Trump has been in office the air has gotten dirtier. His lies dont make it cleaner and his policies are on track to make it worse. Published with permission of The American Independent.	True	False	False	True	True
Climate change garners most of the headlines but the Trump administration is pushing a much larger and broader pro pollution agenda whose latest manifestation is a push at the EPA to overturn a long established scientific consensus that fine particulate pollution colloquially soot kills people. This is critically important for two main reasons. One is that for decades the EPA has been regulating various sources of particulate emissions and the science around how harmful they are plays a role in driving how strict those regulations become. The other is that particulate emissions play a key role in the bureaucratic politics of climate change. Because carbon dioxide emissions are global and the consequences of climate change are also global it is generally hard to demonstrate that cutting a given source of greenhouse gas emissions will have large benefits to Americans. But most regulations that reduce carbon emissions also reduce much more localized soot and taking into account the fact that soot has a marked tendency to kill people who live nearby the emissions sources is important to making the cost benefit analysis math work. Tony Cox an industry consultant Trump tapped to lead the EPAs Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee argues that the EPAs agencys current standards for evaluating this question does not feature enough causal rigor. He wants to abandon the current weight of the evidence standards that allows for a wide range of evidence to be considered with credibility weighted according to the quality of study design in favor of a very narrow class of studies that employ manipulative causation methods. But as Francesca Dominici a biostatistician at Harvards T.H. Chan School of Public Health writes with researcher Gretchen Goldman in a new Science essay on the subject this loads the dice against demonstrating harms because randomized control trials are not possible or ethical when studying environmental hazards. In other words you cant get a group of volunteers together and then randomly assign half of them to have the air they breathe be deliberately poisoned just to see how bad the poison is. You have to rely on ways of exploiting random variation through methods like observational data time series and quasi experiments. Its true of course that you dont want to do a completely naive associational study and then leap to big policy conclusions from it. But public health researchers are aware of the limits of the data available and use matching statistical controls and other standard techniques to try to get a clearer picture of whats going on. Barring all that evidence would as Dominic writes place a nearly unattainable burden of proof on the scientific community and totally undermine the EPAs legal mandate to protect vulnerable people. Both the public health research and the EPA debate are largely focused on the question of soots ability to kill people through e.g. asthma but theres a big emerging set of empirical economics studies suggesting that fine particulates have a wider range of adverse cognitive impacts and are significantly underrated. In other words the consequences of rolling back the war on soot could be substantially worse than the mortality impacts alone imply. Economists like public health researchers are limited by their inability to deliberately poison people in order to study the impact of the poisoning. Consequently none of the studies Ive read on particulate pollution and cognitive impairment quite reaches gold standard levels of scientific evidence. But there are instead lots of quasi experiments and statistical matching studies and they all find that air pollution is worse than we thought. In addition to killing small numbers of people air pollution harms large numbers of people in small but meaningful ways This is an emerging field of study and it would obviously benefit from some further inquiry. That said it appears to be the case that fine particulate pollution induces cognitive impairments in school children white collar workers blue collar workers and the elderly in other words all people at all stages of life. Each of these impacts independently suggests that we are currently allowing too much air pollution and they also cry out for more research that attempts to assess the long term cumulative impact of pollutants that appear to induce cognitive problems throughout the life cycle. The question of exactly how much we are under regulating particulates seems somewhat open to me but the sign of the error is very clear.	True	False	False	False	True
A mid spring snowstorm in Colorado over the weekend postponed a rally that sought to bring attention climate change and global warming as well as protest President Donald Trumps climate policies. A march slated to take place in Colorado Springs on Saturday had to be cancelled after weather forecasters predicted heavy snowfall and blizzard like conditions. Only a few inches of snow fell in the Colorado Springs area but more than a foot of snow fell on other parts of the state. Sometimes Mother Nature throws you a curveball! We know we arent in the business of risking anyones safety. Dangerous conditions and wet heavy snow in the forecast for tomorrow a local climate change organization wrote on their Facebook page. The rally and march was rescheduled for Sunday afternoon. The freezing weather and snow however was unable to postpone a similar rally in Denver where pictures of a snowman at the global warming rally made rounds on Twitter. As well as an ironic sign In other parts of the country where similar marches and rallies took place the weather was a little kinder to the liberal climate alarmist narrative. In Washington D.C. the temperature was in the upper 80s to near 90 as people gathered to protest Trumps climate policies. The Peoples Climate March which was supported by hundreds of thousands across the country and tens of thousands in Washington was sponsored by environmental groups labor unions and social justice groups. Video showed thousands marching in the streets of Washington where former Vice President Al Gore Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio and Virgin Atlantic owner Richard Branson showed up to protest as well. This weekends protests come one week after last weeks March for Science.	True	False	False	True	True
There is a wave of energy related ballot initiatives for voters to weigh in on this election year. Voters from Washington to Florida will be able to partake in important energy policy decisions for their states. Will Washington become the first state to tax carbon dioxide emissions? Will California undo a gas tax increase passed just seven months ago? The Daily Caller News Foundation lays out everything one needs to know about the six most important energy battles this election. RELATED Severe Storms Brewing For Election Day Threaten To Swing Tight Races Washington voters will decide whether or not to tax carbon dioxide emissions a policy championed by Democratic Gov. Jay Inslee and many Democrats and environmentalists who want to fight man made global warming. The ballot measure called Initiative 1631 would tax carbon dioxide emissions from industrial sources at 15 per ton in 2020 which would increase every year to reduce emissions. Supporters say the measure could raise more than 1 billion in revenue. Opponents however point out a carbon tax would raise the price of virtually every good while having no impact on future global warming. The tax would cost households and extra 175 per year in 2020 according to some estimates. The battle of Initiative 1631 has become the most expensive in state history so far drawing 45 million from both sides of the policy. Carbon tax opponents led by the oil and gas industry pumped 30 million into opposing the ballot measure and proponents have spent 15 million. An Octoberpoll found 50 percent of Washington voters favored the carbon tax while 36 percent opposed it. Colorado voters could end up banning hydraulic fracturing in most of the state. Polls show strong support for Proposition 112. The ballot measure if enacted would prohibit oil and gas drilling within 2500 feet of any building or vulnerable area including waterways and playgrounds. Thats more than double the current state buffer for oil and gas operations. A September poll put support for Proposition 112 at 60 percent but many prominent Democrats have come out against the measure. Democratic opponents include former Interior Secretary Ken Salazar and former Gov. Bill Ritter. Supporters say the ballot measure would protect public health but opponents say its a red herring meant as a de facto ban on fracking. The measure would ban oil and gas drilling on more than 80 percent of non federal lands in the state experts said. California voters seem poised to repeal a gas tax hike signed into law only seven months ago that added an extra 12 cents per gallon and up to a 175 license fee for vehicle registration. A University of California Berkeley poll from October found nearly 58 percent of voters opposed the gas tax increase. The political battle heated up that month when gas tax opponents threatened to recall Attorney General Xavier Becerra a Democrat for allegedly trying to mislead voters about the proposal. Gas tax repeal proponents are also backing an initiative to halt spending on Californias high speed rail project and use any unspent funds to improve roads. Tom Steyer Is Behind Ballot Measures In Arizona and Nevada Liberal billionaire Tom Steyers campaign group NextGen Climate Action is backing ballot measures in Arizona and Nevada that would require both states to get 50 percent of their electricity from renewables like wind and solar. Steyer pumped more than 20 million into the campaign but opponents accused Steyers group of using forged and fake signaturesto get the green energy mandate on Arizonas ballot. Steyers group has spent more than 10 million in support of Nevadas green ballot measure. Pinnacle West the parent company of Arizonas largest utility spent more than 30 million opposing the green energy mandate according to Ballotpedia. Under current laws Arizona is required to get 15 percent of its electricity from renewables and Nevada utilities are required to get 25 percent of their power from green sources. Florida To Decide On Offshore Drilling And Vaping? Floridas Amendment 9 ballot measure if enacted would ban offshore oil and gas drilling in state waters and ban e cigarettes from being used in enclosed workplaces. The measure is backed by Democratic and environmental groups opposed to offshore drilling and apparently vaping indoors. Its opposed by Republicans the oil and gas industry and the Consumer Advocates for Smoke Free Alternatives Association a group that advocates for e cigarettes. Opponents have attacked the ballot measure for its odd pairing of issues smoking and offshore drilling. Many opponents of offshore drilling ended up opposing the measure because of its prohibition on vaping indoors. While our editorial board opposes offshore drilling in state waters we also are philosophically opposed to the Constitution Revision Commissions bundling of these unrelated issues into a single amendment the editorial board of Treasure Coast Newspapers wrote in October.	False	False	False	True	True
In his first year as head of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt has made a huge mark shrinking his agency and repealing as many Obama era environmental regulations as possible. And as I pointed out last month in this feature story hes also overseen a drastic slowdown in the day to day work of the agency. Key offices remain vacant and the implementation of new environmental rules has stalled effectively throttling the agency. But one of EPAs most important jobs is to enforce civil penalties for companies that breach limits for hazardous chemicals like sulfur dioxide and hydrochloric acid. And one new measure of Pruitts foot dragging thats just emerged is how much money EPA has been collecting from polluters lately. According to a new report from the Environmental Integrity Project a watchdog group that advocates for enforcement of environmental laws the amount of fines collected by Trumps EPA has plummeted compared to the agency under the past three presidents in their first year in office. Check out this chart The fines come from consent decrees a type of legal settlement where a party has to take a specific action but does not have to admit fault or liability. The consent decrees here involve violations of federal environmental laws like the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act. This tally doesnt include penalties from EPAs Superfund program criminal cases or the administrative actions that EPA takes to resolve smaller violations. The number of civil cases filed by the EPA to collect these fines in the first place has also declined. In President Clintons first year there were 73 under Bush 112 under Obama 71. In 2017 there were just 48 cases. What this means is that the EPA is not going after polluters like it used to. Less enforcement doesnt mean there arent a whole lot of violations that are out there said Eric Schaeffer executive director of the Environmental Integrity Project who led the civil enforcement office at the EPA under Presidents Clinton and Bush in a call with reporters. He noted that many of these civil cases take months to complete so some of the cases completed under Trump started under Obama. In a consent decree reached with Exxon Mobil last October the EPA boasted that the company would spend 300 million to install pollution controls but Schaeffer noted that this total includes measures installed as far back as 2013. And its likely enforcement will decline further for ongoing environmental investigations. Many of those cases will drop out of sight if Congress agrees to cut the agencys enforcement budget by 17 percent as President Trump has proposed according to the report. Enforcement matters especially to the people who live and work next to plants that continue to release more pollution than the law allows. The EPA did not respond to a request for comment.	True	True	False	True	True
Britishtaxpayers face paying more to help developing countries tackle climate change after Donald Trump's withdrawal from the Paris agreement left a 2.3billion black hole. The US President pulled the plug on billions of dollars his country pledged as part of a 78billion international commitment to help poor countries switch to renewable energy. And now other rich nations including the UK could be called on to cover the cost. International Development Secretary Priti Patel yesterday indicated she would be reluctant to plug the financial gap left by Mr Trump's decision to pull out. She stressed the importance of the fund in heading off wider humanitarian crises such as droughts and floods and said leaders should focus on cutting waste from the programme rather than pumping in more cash immediately. Asked whether the UK could contribute more she told the Daily Mail 'It is not always about money it is about ways of working and how to achieve effective outcomes. 'I think we can work more effectively in making sure that every pound that goes in to the fund is achieving what it is meant to do.' Mr Trump's decision to pull out of the Paris agreement was met with dismay around the world yesterday. China and Europe pledged to unite to save 'Mother Earth' as others including the UK and Russia reaffirmed their commitment to the international accord. A key part of the 2015 Paris deal signed by more than 190 nations was a commitment from the richest nations to contribute 78billion a year to the Green Climate Fund to help poorer countries tackle global warming. The UK has promised 720million money that comes from the foreign aid budget and private investors. Former president Barack Obama had pledged 2.3billion from the US. The Paris Climate Agreement commits nations to reduce carbon emissions to stop the world overheating. But Mr Trump who previously dismissed climate change as a 'Chinese hoax' wants to renegotiate terms that are 'fairer' to the US. In a Press conference after a summit between the EU and China European Council president Donald Tusk said the bloc was stepping up co operation with China on climate change. 'Today China and Europe have demonstrated solidarity with future generations and responsibility for the planet' he said. Russia said it was still likely to back the Paris pact although a Kremlin spokesman said Washington's withdrawal had punched a gaping hole in the agreement because the US was one of the biggest generators of emissions. Coal crazy China tries to improve its image Chinahas stepped forward to replace the US as a world leader on climate change. Donald Trump's withdrawal from the Paris climate accord will bolster China's global stature and help it profit from renewable energy investment an expert predicts. That is despite China being the top emitter of greenhouse gases and by far the world's largest consumer of coal. In a joint statement yesterday the EU and China said action on climate change was 'more important than ever' and both committed to 'significantly intensify' their efforts. Nick Mabey of the climate change think tank E3G said it was the 'strongest bilateral statement on climate' he had seen adding 'President Trump has driven the EU and China together to write the rules for the clean economy.' Coal still accounted for 62 per cent of China's total energy consumption in 2016. In January it suspended or cancelled plans to build another 100 coal fueled power plants. But dozens more are still expected to be built. US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson sought to ward off criticism by saying the US would continue trying to curb greenhouse emissions despite pulling out of the Paris accord. But French President Emmanuel Macron turned Mr Trump's 'Make America Great Again' campaign slogan on its head saying that it was time to 'make the planet great again'. Prime Minister Theresa May told Mr Trump of her 'disappointment' at his decision in a phone call with the President shortly after his announcement on Thursday. But she was criticised by Labour for failing to add her name to a joint statement issued by European leaders to say that the Paris climate accord cannot be renegotiated as Mr Trump has demanded. Jeremy Corbyn said 'Given the chance to present a united front from our international partners she Mrs May has instead opted for silence and once again subservience to Donald Trump. It's a dereliction of both her duty to this country and our duty to our planet.' Gareth Redmond King head of climate and energy at the World Wide Fund for Nature said investment in renewable energy was a great business opportunity. 'We're calling on the next UK government to step up as a global leader on tackling climate change' he said. 'It is what the public wants it makes economic sense and it is what the world needs in order to safeguard the lives of future generations.'	True	False	False	False	False
Donald Trump has singlehandedly been working to set back U.S. climate policy 50 years. Heoutraged the world by exiting the Paris climate agreement. He fired scientists from government advisory positions. He signed a bill to let coal mines dump waste into streams. He is trying to undo the Clean Power Plan fuel economy standards for carsoffshore drilling restrictions and solar tax credits. But at the state level politicians are fighting back and nowhere more so than in California. On Monday the California state legislature passed a sweeping deal to extend the states current cap and trade program until 2030. The law requires businesses to buy credits based on their volume of greenhouse pollution. The passage of this bill is a rare bipartisan victory. Democrats control both chambers of the California legislature but the bill required a supermajority. Republicans cast the deciding votes amid the endorsement of prominent California GOP politicians like former Gov. Pete Wilson. California has been at the forefront of the climate change fight ever since Trump was elected. Gov. Jerry Brown made news in December for telling Trump that if he scuttles climate research satellites California will launch its own damn satellites. More recently Brown helped found the United States Climate Alliance a group of state and local governments pledging to abide by the Paris climate agreement even after the federal government withdraws. So far 10 states including two with Republican governors have joined as well as several major cities. Even if Trump is willing to turn his back on our allies and our future to roll back the clock on environmental protection states like California are standing up and assuming the mantle of leadership.The fight for the environment is a fight for the secure future of human civilization and Trump cannot stop that fight.	True	False	False	False	False
President Donald Trump's eldest son Don Jr. has criticized Time magazine for naming Greta Person of the Year 2019 in a mocking tweet. The businessman denounced the choice as a 'marketing gimmick' and said the prize should have honored 'Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms' his father was also a finalist. Tweeting yesterday in response to Time magazine he wrote 'Time leaves out the Hong Kong Protesters fighting for their lives and freedoms to push a teen being used as a marketing gimmick.' The 16 year old Swedish face of climate activism made headlines after shouting 'How dare you?' at world leaders at the U.N. General Assembly earlier this year accusing them of failing the younger generation. An image of her stare at Donald Trump as he entered the UN quickly became a social media meme. Miss Thunberg was up against four other Time's finalists including anti government Hong Kong protesters U.S. house speaker Nancy Pelosi the anonymous whistleblower who revealed Trump's phone call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in July that may lead to his impeachment and in ironically also Donald Trump. The young activist attracted international attention after holding a sign that said 'skolstrejk fr klimatet' or 'School strike for the climate' in Swedish parliament last year. The activist has drawn increasingly large crowds with her appearances at protests and conferences over the past year and a half. Veteran campaigners and scientists have welcomed her activism including her combative speeches challenging world leaders to do more to stop global warming. Time editor in chief Edward Felsenthal told the Today show 'She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement.' He confirmed she is the magazine's youngest ever choice. Malala Yousafzai was runner up in 2012 losing out to Barack Obama aged 15. U.S. president last month signed legislation backing the Hong Kong protesters in their fight for democracy which could be the reason for his son's backing. The protests begun in March when an extradition bill now suspended called for those facing trials to be sent to mainland China which was seen as a threat to the region's autonomy. Thunberg has not responded to the criticism but retweeted Time magazine's cover featuring herself. Today President Donald Trump lashed out at 16 year old global warming activist Greta Thunberg on Thursday and told her to 'chill' as he called her Time magazine 'Person of the Year' award 'ridiculous.' 'Greta must work on her Anger Management problem then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend! Chill Greta Chill!' Trump tweeted The president was responding to Christian filmmaker Roma Downey who tweeted the Time cover with the word 'Congrats.' Minutes after his tweet Thunberg changed her Twitter profile biography to read 'A teenager working on her anger management problem. Currently chilling and watching a good old fashioned movie with a friend.' Thunberg was in Madrid on Wednesday where she addressed negotiators at the U.N.'s COP25 climate talks. There she accused political and business leaders of polishing their images rather than taking aggressive action in the fight against climate change at the UN climate talks. In a speech the teenager also criticized governments for avoiding taking action to cut greenhouse gas emissions and 'not behaving as if we are in an emergency'. Greta said 'The biggest danger is not inaction the real danger is when politicians and CEOs are making it look like real action is happening when in fact almost nothing is being done apart from clever accounting and creative PR.' She said the science showed that at the current rate of emissions the world is set to use up the whole 'carbon budget' the amount of pollution that can be put into the atmosphere and still keep global warming to 1.5C in eight years.	True	True	False	True	False
Comedian Bill Nye accused CNN of doing a disservice to its viewers for inviting a well respected physicist on Earth Day to argue about the legitimacy of man made global warming. Nye who is well known for hosting a childrens TV show in the 1990s scolded CNNs New Day Saturday panel Saturday for pitting his environmentalist pedigree against the climate skepticism of physicistWilliam Happer. He also suggested the 24 news channel should instead drown out people like Happer with 98 scientists who believe in man made global warming. And I will say much as I love the CNN youre doing a disservice by having one climate change skeptic and not 97 or 98 scientists or engineers concerned about climate change Nye said after the Princeton University academic suggested that it is a myth to believe that carbon dioxide is a pollutant causing widespread ecological destruction. Carbon dioxide is a perfectly natural gas its just like water vapor its something that plants love. They grow better with more carbon dioxide and you can see the greening of the earth already from the additional carbon dioxide in the atmosphere he added. He went on to say that Nyes views on science are backward. Science is based on observation Happer said and if you observe whats happening to for example the temperature the temperature is not rising nearly as fast as the alarmist computer models predicted. Its much much less factors of two or three less. Happer a science adviser to President Donald Trump made public his skeptical views on climate change in January. He told reporters that climate change is tremendously exaggerated adding that climate research is important but I think its become sort of a cult movement in the last five years. Nye who has a degree in engineering but no professional science background called Happers position completely wrong and suggested the physicist was cherry picking a certain model. Some scientists maintain people like Nye are the ones cherry picking data. Climate models predicted Antarctic sea ice would shrink and that climate change would boost snowfall in the southern hemisphere yet neither of those predictions have panned out. In fact scientists now say natural variability is overwhelming their models. Scientists with Columbia Universitys Earth Institute for instance found theres beenalmost no change in Antarcticas snowfall. They blamed strong natural variability for the models failures. Scientists have also warned thatAntarctica has been losing 147 gigatons of ice per yearfor years mostly from melting on the northern Antarctic Peninsula. A NASA conducted in 2015 meanwhile foundAntarcticas ice sheet increased in mass from 1992 to 2008 which essentially offset ice melting in the western part of the Antarctic. Nye for his part has been one of the most belligerent apostle for the environmental movement. Hes even suggested that throwingglobal warming skeptics in jail could be a potential solutionduring an interview with the conservative Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	False	False	False	False	False
The New York Times published an unreleased draft of the report Monday. The 543 page report was written by scientists from 13 federal agencies including the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.It concludes that temperatures in the U.S. have risen sharply by 1.6 degrees Fahrenheit over the last 150 years and that it is extremely likely that most of the global mean temperature increase since 1951 was caused by human influence on climate. Evidence for a changing climate abounds from the top of the atmosphere to the depths of the oceans the report states. Thousands of studies conducted by tens of thousands of scientists around the world have documented changes in surface atmospheric and oceanic temperatures melting glaciers disappearing snow cover shrinking sea ice rising sea level and an increase in atmospheric water vapor. Many lines of evidence demonstrate that human activities especially emissions of greenhouse heat trapping gases are primarily responsible for recent observed climate changes. The report completed this year and part of the National Climate Assessment has already been approved by theNational Academy of Sciences according to the Times. Its release hinges on the Trump administrations approval and one scientist who worked on the report told the Times that he and others feared the president would withhold it. Also the frequency of extreme weather events including heavy rain and heat waves has increased and is very likely to continue to do so. And since 1880 global sea levels have risen 8 to 9 inches roughly 3 of those inches since 1990 with human activity playing a substantial role according to the report. In a post to Twitter Gavin Schmidt a climate scientist and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies said that nothing in the report is surprising for people working in the field but that it may be shocking to those that think climate change is just a future problem. The report delivers a strikingly different message than the one being pushed by Trump and his Cabinet members who continue to downplay the urgency of the threat as they work toward energy dominance. Since taking office Trump who famously called climate change bullshit and a Chinese hoax has moved quickly toderail Americas actions to combat climate change including rolling back President Barack ObamasClean Power Plan a policy limiting greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. Trump has pegged himself as a savior of Americas dying coal industry and has vowed to increase oil and gas production openingnow protected areasof the Arctic and Atlantic oceans to drilling. In June he announced plans topull the U.S. out of the historic Paris Agreement on climate change the international accord in which nearly 200 countries committed to slashing carbon emissions in an effort to prevent global temperatures fromincreasing 2 degrees Celsiusabove pre industrial levelsthe line scientists say the world must stay below to stave off the very worst effects of climate change. Meanwhile his Cabinet members have refused to say whether Trump believes climate change is real and continue to question how much the scientific community understands about the threat and the role humans play in observed changes. In MarchEnvironmental Protection AgencyheadScott Pruitttold CNBC No I would not agreethat carbon dioxide is a primary contributor to the global warming that we see. And in June Energy Secretary Rick Perry echoed Pruitts comments saying no when asked byCNBC whether he believes carbon dioxide is the primary control knob for the temperature of the Earth and for climate. Most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in Perry said.I mean the fact is this shouldnt be a debate about Is the climate changing? Is man having an effect on it? Yeah we are. The question should be you know just how much and what are the policy changes that we need to make to affect that? Also in June Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke said glaciers in Montanas Glacier National Park started melting right after the end of the Ice Age and that it has been a consistent melt. He also dismissed the notion that government scientists can predict with certainty how much warming will occur by 2100 under a business as usual scenario.	False	False	False	True	False
The Trump administration has halted a study looking at the health risks of mountaintop removal coal mining. In a letter written on Friday the Interior Department announced the shutdown of the study which was started in 2016 under former President Barack Obama while the department undergoes an agency wide budgetary review. Scientists estimate at least 500 Appalachian mountaintops have undergone mountaintop removal mining a form of surface mining that harvests coal deposits too thin to work from a coal mine. The study had been launched at the request of two West Virginia agencies the state's Department of Environmental Protection and Bureau for Public Health. Ordered by the Obama administration the 1million two year study looked to investigate mountaintop removal in West Virginia Kentucky Virginia and Tennessee. An emphasis was placed on studying the 'effects from surface coal mining operations on air surface water groundwater and drinking water quality and on ecologic communities and soil that could potentially lead to human health concerns.' This came after a 2010 study in Science magazine reported an increase in mortality rates as well as an increase in incidences of lung cancer and kidney disease near where mountaintop mining is common. Birth defects were also reported in a 2011 study published in Science Daily. Some suggest the move may be part of President Donald Trump's efforts to bring back coal. In February he scrapped the Stream Protection Rule a regulation to protect waterways from coal mining waste and promised to bring back coal mining jobs. Additionally his proposed 2018 budget would cut funding for the Office of Surface Mining which is responsible for protecting society and the environment from the adverse effects of surface coal mining operations. Critics have railed against the Interior Department for moves seen as halting scientific growth. Several science advisory boards were frozen earlier this year by Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke. And Interior Department climate scientist Joel Clement allegedthat he and dozens of other scientists had been arbitrarily reassigned. 'It's infuriating that Trump would halt this study on the health effects of mountaintop removal coal mining research that people in Appalachia have been demanding for years' Bill Price Senior Appalachia Organizing Representative for Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign said in a statement. 'Stopping this study is a ploy to stop science in its tracks and keep the public in the dark about health risks as a favor to the mining industry pure and simple' said Democratic Representative Ral Grijalva of Arizona ranking member of the House Committee on Natural Resources in a statement.	True	True	False	True	False
There must be a new approach to public policy development that makes Earth First. Property economy and jobs must serve Earth First. The planning frame should be at least 100 years possibly 1000 NOT 25. Environmental change is occurring so fast that small decisions made locally avalanche regionally e.g. downstream pollution or even globally e.g. ozone layer destruction. The Economic Growth discussion is always the same highest and best value a misnomer if ever there was one profits trump survival pun intended. Fat City is over although many are still trying to milk it for the last bit of cream we call these asshats Vulture Capitalists they feed off the dead and wounded. We must do more with less and the rich must share or move out. We dont need more deadhead users and freeloaders. We must develop a mutually supportive community again. The business of government is the peoples business developers step to the rear. Legislators must renounce corporate campaign contributions as contrary to the public good. We must CONTROL land and resource value to discourage speculation and eliminate or lessen the wide market swings due to nerves or manipulation. We must impose firm honest value on land and resources and discourage speculative over inflation speculation is not bad per se but it is one of the easiest activities to exaggerate and corrupt. We need a National Land Use Comprehensive Plan. Unlimited Growth is the ethos of a cancer cell observes David Suzuki noted biologist. Because one cannot personally conceive of an alternative to growth does not mean that one does not exist. Sustainability is NOT a myth it is an under represented and too often wrongfully rejected younger child the one bearing truth to co dependent addicted parents in deep denial over their multi generational destruction of the natural environment. Three well known parables apply One more stick with the pin? Deal with it later? Turn up the heat? Earths Life Support Systems Failing. The world has failed to slow the accelerating extinction crisis despite years of international effort. It is hard to imagine a more important priority. The biodiversity of life on Earth comprises the ecosystems that provide climate regulation foodfiber clean water and air. Like a Dooms Day asteroid human over population pollution logging over exploitation consumption land use changes and engineering projects have produced the planets sixth great extinction of species. Freshwater Species that live in lakes and rivers are vanishing four to six times faster than anywhere else. There is clear and growing scientific evidence that we are on the verge of a major freshwater biodiversity crisis. We are in a life threatening situation and must make fundamental and absolute changes without delay. We cannot give just a bit more to Trump and his greedy followers. Spoiled children need discipline in order to live wholesome productive lives. Developers energy barons other planet killers and we must settle for less and work together to plan and build a healthy sustainable community. We require teamwork to endure what is coming. We have no luxury to indulge selfish ignorant behaviors. What are our politicians doing that makes any positive difference? Let us ask them. Demand Party Platforms that respond to reality justice science and full democracy. Demand to be treated like adults. How to Help Where to find the Action Get Corporations out of Government movetoamend.org Be Sure to VOTE take a new registered progressive voter to the polls with you.	True	True	False	True	True
WASHINGTON Reuters The Trump administration on Thursday proposed easing Obama era limits on oil and gas industry emissions of methane one of the main pollutants scientists link to climate change. The Environmental Protection Agency EPA said easing the 2016 regulation that targeted methane would save energy companies up to 123 million through 2025. The plan will undergo a period of public comment before being finalized and environmental groups pledged court action to try to block repeal of the limits. The proposal removes unnecessary and duplicative regulatory burdens from the oil and gas industry EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said in a release. The EPA said it will keep rules issued in 2012 that limit emissions known as volatile organic compounds that cause smog and also control some methane emissions. Some large energy companies including BP favor federal regulation of methane saying the regulatory certainty is preferable to a patchwork of varying rules by states and legal challenges by environmentalists. BP has said it is already taking steps to limit methane emissions. The move is the Trump administrations latest easing of rules designed to curb greenhouse gas emissions including many put forth by his predecessor President Barack Obama. President Donald Trump who insists he is an environmentalist has also relaxed rules on carbon emissions from vehicles and intends to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris agreement on climate change. Concern about climate has heightened in recent weeks amid fires in the Arctic and the Amazon rainforest and melting of ice in Greenland. Democrats seeking their partys nomination in the 2020 U.S. presidential election will participate in a series of town halls on climate next week. In 2016 Obamas EPA issued the first rule limiting methane emissions from new oil and gas fracking operations including transport equipment. Thursdays proposal would repeal those regulations. The oil and gas business is the largest single source of methane emissions a major factor in global warming. The gas has more than 80 times the heat trapping potential of carbon dioxide in the first 20 years after it escapes into the atmosphere scientists say. Susan Dio chairman and president of BP America supported federal regulation of methane in an opinion piece in the Houston Chronicle earlier this year calling it the the best way to help further reduce and ultimately eliminate methane emissions industrywide. Environmentalists vowed to sue the administration over the proposal. We simply cannot protect our children and grandchildren from climate catastrophe if EPA lets this industry off scot free said David Doniger a climate and clean energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council. If EPA moves forward with this reckless and sinister proposal we will see them in court.	True	True	True	False	False
Consumer goods giant Procter Gamble faces pressure from environmentalists to clean up its act. More than 150 groups are pushing the maker of Charmin toiler paper and Bounty paper towels to use recycled materials in its products. Currently neither of those products uses recycled paper and about one third of it is sourced from Canada's boreal forest a large swath of virgin forest that rings the Arctic Circle and acts as a critical check on climate change. It's just unacceptable that a company like PG is making toilet paper a product that is used for seconds and flushed from virgin pulp said Shelley Vinyard boreal corporate campaign manager for the Natural Resources Defense Council and one of several dozen protesters at PG's annual shareholders meeting in Cincinnati Ohio on Tuesday. The NRDC likens Canada's vast forests to the Amazon of North. Replacing just half of PG's virgin pulp usage with recycled content would dwarf the company's current climate commitments the NRDC said in a letter to the company that was co signed by 150 other activist groups. PG offers a simple reason for not using recycled wood pulp It doesn't make for good toilet paper. Have you tried recycled toilet paper yourself? a PG spokeswoman asked CBS MoneyWatch who also pointed to Charmin as a superior product. I promise you'll enjoy it much more she said. PG is one of the world's largest consumer products companies with annual revenue of 67 billion and a stock market value of 305 billion. Along with Charmin and Bounty its many brands include Crest toothpaste Gillette razors Head Shoulders shampoo Pampers diapers and Tide laundry detergent. Toilet paper made from recycled fibers doesn't have the same qualities causing people to use more tissue made directly from trees the spokeswoman added. She also noted that PG's experience making recycled tissue products shows that a significant amount of recycled fibers ends up as solid waste sludge going to landfill. Instead PG promises to source its paper from forests that are well managed which in the company's view is a more responsible course of action than using recycled products. About 40 of its product line today comes from forests certified by the Forest Stewardship Council a nonprofit conservation group according to the company and the FSC. Personally I buy recycled toilet paper because we can and it's good for the Earth said Andrew Musgrave director of Catholic Social Action at the Archdiocese of Cincinnati and one of the 150 signatories to the letter sent to PG. Musgrave said he learned about the issue of deforestation for toilet paper relatively recently through a member of the congregation and that it was a natural fit with church teachings on preserving the environment. We believe in the dignity of life and part of that is having a place to live he said. He added that Cincinnati based PG had a history of supporting work and social justice in the community and he believed it was possible to shift to a recycled paper product without reducing quality. Frankly there are a lot of different companies that have moved in the direction of using recycled paper and I have a hard time imagining that they would have done it if it were not economically sustainable Musgrave said. Making paper sustainably doesn't necessarily mean using 100 recycled content said Stephen Donofrio director of the Ecosystem Marketplace initiative at the nonprofit Forest Trends. It could potentially be a mix. It could be single source certified and recycled. Wood has a heavy presence in most U.S. bathrooms Americans use more tissue paper than any other nation except China which has more than four times its population. That comes out to 36 billion rolls per year according to an analysis in Scientific American. The top three companies in what's called the tissue industry PG Kimberly Clark and Georgia Pacific rely almost exclusively on virgin pulp for their products. Last week PG promised to increase the portion of FSC certified fiber in its products to 75 from the current 40 within six years and to better protect caribou habitat in the Canadian forest where it gets much of its pulp. FSC certification limits forest clear cutting and ensures trees are re planted at the same rate they are harvested. However even harvesting from a sustainably managed forest has an environmental cost when compared with leaving trees uncut in the first place. The question we should be asking is whether or not those products are from virgin primary forests which are rich with biodiversity food systems and other ecosystems Donofrio said. It's that natural infrastructure that we're trying to avoid being lost. When companies make these pledges to be sustainably sourced or use recycled content that's the problem that they're solving.	False	False	False	True	False
Wyoming's economy is dominated by coal other fossil fuels and mineral extraction. The formula here has worked residents in Wyoming enjoy among the highest per capita GDP in the nation. So naturally there's been some hostility toward new sources of energy that could threaten that. It's a complicated history with wind says Jeremiah Rieman director of economic diversification strategy for Wyoming Gov. Matt Mead R. I think you're seeing a change. And certainly we're hearing the message loud and clear as we go through this economic diversification strategy effort that wind and renewables need to be a part of that. The push toward wind is playing out in a high rise office building 100 miles south of Wyoming's capital in Denver. There TransWest Express is laying out plans to build a 730 mile transmission line across the American West. CEO Bill Miller points to a map and the start of the project 1000 wind turbines to be built on a ranch in south central Wyoming. It starts there and runs a little bit west and then due south into northwest Colorado says Miller tracing a line through Utah and then down south of Las Vegas. If all goes according to plan in three years Miller says the winds of low population Wyoming will be bringing electricity to where it's needed in California. To my knowledge this is the largest transmission line development that has occurred in this country in probably 50 years. TransWest Express which is part of the Anschutz Corporation owned by billionaire Phillip Anschutz is looking to harness Wyoming's wind because well it's super windy. The winds howl in southeast Wyoming because they're rising at the continental divide then pushing through a gap in the Rocky Mountains. So if you remember your high school physics class there's this thing called the Venturi effect where you narrow something and that naturally speeds up an air flow. And that's really what we have here says economist Robert Godby director of the Center for Energy Economics and Public Policy at the University of Wyoming. Wyoming may have strong winds but the state ranks just 16th for wind generation. Godby says Wyoming hasn't exactly made things attractive for developers We have the only wind generation tax in the country where we actually tax people who produce electricity with wind. Meanwhile many other states are creating incentives for wind development for example by creating renewable portfolio standards that require a state to obtain a certain amount of its energy from sources like wind and solar. I think it's really unfair that Wyoming has this reputation for being hostile to wind or anti wind says Jason Beggar director the Wyoming Infrastructure Authority a state entity tasked with developing large transmission projects. It's not an anti wind philosophy it's just the philosophy of the state we tax our natural resources to fund government. Beggar says it's tough to build in Wyoming because roughly half of the state is federally owned land. So when you go to Texas or you go to Iowa you're generally just negotiating with a landowner whether it's a farmer whomever says Beggar. Well in Wyoming you have to file permits with the federal government and that includes things like land use wildlife mitigation mineral disturbances. There are factors and factors and factors. Beggar says the Trump administration has shown a willingness to cut red tape and move things along more quickly. Meanwhile conservationists and environmentalists have bristled at the rollback of regulations. There's another challenge facing Wyoming wind climate change skepticism. Coal burns dirty and produces a lot of greenhouse gases. Many states are pushing renewable energy to move away from that. But in Wyoming it's complicated. Climate change is a pretty tough subject to talk about with some people because it's a threat no matter how you look at it says Robert Godby. It's a threat to world climate it's also a threat to people's livelihoods in Wyoming. And those two things are kind of in conflict. If you're a state like Wyoming where you produce so much fossil fuel in particular coal that's threatened by any sort of climate change policy we might put in place to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Wyoming's governor Matt Mead professes skepticism on climate science but not on the markets which are moving away from dirtier burning fuels like coal. That's why he's pushing for a more diversified economy. At the end of the day the debate in Wyoming is really about jobs. Bill Miller says that when people learn about the tax revenues and jobs their transmission line and wind farm will bring to Wyoming they like that. These are good high paying jobs. And when we finish this project the permanent jobs are going to be roughly 150 people well paid fully benefitted jobs that are really a boon to those communities says Miller. Wind projects in Wyoming won't come anywhere close to creating enough work to replace the coal industry. Still the jobs are an important part of the state's broader diversification strategy. Roughly 60 percent of our youth between the ages of 18 and 24 will not be here 10 years from now and that's a trend we would like to see disappear says Rieman. Whether new opportunities come from digging up coal or harnessing the wind for job seekers in Wyoming that detail may be of secondary importance. This article originally appeared at PRI's The World.	True	True	False	False	False
The Environmental Protection Agencys 90 day suspension of new emission standards on oil and gas wells has been struck down by a US appeals court. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has long sought a repeal of the Obama era rules. A three judge panel of the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled 2 1 that the EPA would be allowed to reconsider a 2016 ruling that limited methane and smog forming pollutants emitted by oil and gas wells but could not delay the date it begins. Two judges concluded the administration record thus makes clear that industry groups had ample opportunity to comment on all four issues on which EPA granted reconsideration and indeed that in several instances the agency incorporated those comments directly into the final rule. READ MOREMining in Alaska may return as EPA scraps Obama era regulations Pruitt the new head of the EPA had been looking to extend a suspension on these activities for two years. There will be a separate administration public hearing on the same extension next Monday according to the Washington Post. The courts ruling is yet another reminder now in the context of environmental protection that the federal judiciary remains a significant obstacle to the presidents desire to order immediate change Richard Lazarus environmental law professor at Harvard Law School said in an email as reported by the Post. Lazarus continued the DC Circuits ruling today makes clear that neither the president nor his EPA administrator Scott Pruitt can by fiat unilaterally and instantaneously repeal or otherwise stay the effectiveness of the environmental protection rules put into place during the Obama administration. Former President Barack Obama had put in place a rule in 2016 that was connected to a regulatory strategy which sought to reduce methane emissions. At the time Pruitt was the Attorney General of Oklahoma and he and others sued the EPA to overturn the legislation. Pruitt has also begun to move on suspending or revoking many other measures which were implemented during the Obama years. This includes a two year delay on a certain regulations aimed at minimizing chemical accidents.	True	True	False	True	True
WASHINGTON Reuters The U.S. Supreme Court on Friday rejected for now a bid by the President Donald Trumps administration to block a trial in a lawsuit filed by young activists who have accused the U.S. government of ignoring the perils of climate change. The loss for the administration means it now faces a high profile examination of U.S. climate change policy during the trial that was due to begin on Oct. 29 in Eugene Oregon but has since been postponed by the judge. Chief Justice John Roberts on Oct. 19 had temporarily put the case on hold while the court as a whole decided how to proceed. The Supreme Courts three page order noted that the administration may still have grounds to take its arguments to the San Francisco based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Conservative Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch indicated they would have granted the administrations request. There was no indication how Trumps new Supreme Court appointee conservative Brett Kavanaugh voted on the issue. In the lawsuit 21 activists ages 11 to 22 said federal officials violated their rights to due process under the U.S. Constitution by failing to adequately address carbon pollution such as emissions from the burning of fossil fuels. The lawsuit was filed in 2015 against former President Barack Obama and government agencies in a federal court in Eugene Oregon. Both the Obama and Trump administrations have failed in efforts to have the lawsuit thrown out. The administration has said a courtroom is not the appropriate venue for a debate on climate change policy. This suit is an attempt to redirect federal environmental and energy policies through the courts rather than through the political process by asserting a new and unsupported fundamental due process right to certain climate conditions Trump administration Solicitor General Noel Francisco said in court papers. Francisco noted that the plaintiffs are seeking to hold the U.S. government liable for the cumulative effects of carbon dioxide emissions from every source in the world over decades. Lawyers for the young activists led by Julia Olson of a Eugene based group called Our Childrens Trust that brought the lawsuit have said their clients have suffered irreparable harm from the effects of a changing climate. This is a case about the fundamental rights of children and whether the actions of their government have deprived them of their inalienable rights Olson said in court papers. On July 30 the high court rejected an earlier application by the Trump administration calling it premature. Eugene Oregon based federal Judge Ann Aiken has repeatedly allowed the case to move forward to trial over the objections of the government. The trial will proceed if neither the high court nor the 9th Circuit intervene. Aiken said in an Oct. 15 ruling that although the case raised questions about the role of the judiciary delving into a matter of policy those concerns were not enough to warrant a dismissal of the entire case.	True	False	False	True	False
WASHINGTON A mammoth lands bill that would protect more than 2 million acres and permanently reauthorize a key land and water conservation program heads to President Donald Trump following the House's overwhelming approval Tuesday. The 363 62 vote to pass theNatural Resources Management Act came two weeks after the Senate approved the bill 92 8. Years in the crafting the measurecombines more than 100 separate bills that collectively would designate1340000 acres of new wilderness 367 miles of new scenic rivers and 2600 miles of new national trails. It also would createfour national monuments including the home of slain civil rights icon Medgar Eversin Mississippiand expandthree national parks including Joshua Tree in California. In addition the legislation would require the U.S. Forest Service and the Department of the Interior to begin providing GPS locations for crews on wildfires and to begin using drones to scout and map wildfires in real time. The bill won easy passage in the House in part because it included dozens of individual member's parochial priorities stretching across all 50 states. But it also enjoyed larger buy in. Democratsgot behind the bill because it would expand environmental protections. Republicans supported it because it would expand access to public lands for recreational and hunting purposes. Related Green New Deal What is it and what does it mean for climate change? Related Crumbling national parks Congress looks to hike funds for repairs after years of neglect The very basis of all of the bills that are in here is to put people above government Utah Rep. Rob Bishop the top Republican on the House Natural Resources Committee said on the House floor before the vote. If indeed we're going to have public lands there should be access to those lands. The measure also permanently reauthorizes the Land and Water Conservation Fund which uses federal royalties from oil and gas drilling to preserve public lands. It had expired in September. Although the bill does not guarantee that the royalties about 900 million a year flow into the program environmental groups consider making the LWCF permanent an enormous victory. Rep. Debbie Dingell D Mich praised the program for its universal benefits saying the conservation fund has steered 3.9 billion to some 40000 projects in every county across this country since it began in the 1960s. LWCF has protected some of our most treasured natural resources while creating jobs supporting local economies and providing countless opportunitiesfor recreation she said on the House floor.	True	False	False	True	False
Included in the Bureau of Land Managements September oil and gas lease sale is about 47 square miles 122 square kilometers of land north of Hovenweep National Monument a group of prehistoric villages overlooking a canyon with connections to several indigenous tribes throughout the U.S. Southwest. The parcels for lease are about five to 20 miles eight to 32 kilometers north of the monument. The sale comes amid an ongoing debate over drilling in states like Colorado Arizona and New Mexico where a coalition of tribes are calling for a halt on energy development near land that Native Americans consider sacred. The Trump administration has pushed to open vast expanses of public lands to oil and gas drilling speed up the construction of petroleum pipelines and ease federal environmental regulations dismissing calls from scientists in and out of government that immediate cuts in oil gas and coal emissions are required to stave off the worst of climate change. When this oil and gas leasing happens on or near sacred lands it risks de stabilizing the bedrock of the structures said Ahjani Yepa a member of Utah Din Bikyah a Navajo grass roots organization. Hovenweep is in all of our stories and to threaten the integrity of these structures jeopardizes everything weve carried forward as resilient people. Hovenweep was designated as an International Dark Sky Park in 2014 by the International Dark Sky Association recognized for its striking night skies and star gazing opportunities. Southeast Utah is known for its sweeping desert landscapes and expansive night skies. The state has 11 internationally recognized Dark Sky Parks the most of any state. Business owners in Bluff said the dark skies drive tourism to Hovenweep and feared industrial light pollution as well as the sounds and smells of energy development could drive visitors away. As of Monday afternoon Finch said there were no results to share and the sale would continue until at least Tuesday. The agency says in planning documents that companies should take steps to protect the environmental and cultural landscape of the area including limiting the use of artificial light at drilling sites and protecting useable groundwater aquifers from drilling. Companies must obtain permits and go through environmental reviews before they begin construction or drilling. Some leases go years before drilling or expire before any activity occurs. Still environmentalists and Native Americans invested in the land said such documents fail to address a larger trend of leasing increasingly more land on or near sensitive tribal landscapes. Parcels near Hovenweep were offered then deferred in a March BLM lease sale and new documents for an upcoming December lease sale show more land will be up for grabs. At least we have our little foot in the door but thats as far as weve gotten she said. They argue these lands are abandoned but theyre not we use them in our prayers we visit them. You wouldnt like it if I went into your home your land and started digging. The Bureau of Land Management would benefit from more community outreach and long term planning to lease parcels on sensitive landscapes said Erika Pollard an associate director with the National Parks Conservation Association. But the new energy dominated era she said were in has made public input on these processes harder.	False	False	False	False	False
Hes written poems lamenting legal abortion. He wants to make gay sex illegal and overturn marriage equality. The former judge says he places Gods law above the Constitution describes Islam as a false religion and has repeatedly defied federal orders to remove religious ornaments from his courtroom. He doesnt believe in evolution compares preschool to Nazi style indoctrinationand once said the Sept. 11 2001 terrorist attacks were divine punishment for the United States godlessness. His campaign site calls for energy independence and stakes out the vague position Coal mining and oil drilling should be encouraged subject only to reasonable regulations. In July he was the only candidate to refuse to answer questions about climate change for a Montgomery Advertiser story. Katie Frost his spokeswoman did not respond to multiple requests for comment. Not only do scientists disagree on global warming but there is little hard evidence that carbon emissions cause changes to the global climate. But it appears that Obama and his liberal administration are not really interested in what the Constitution or the scientific community have to say when it interferes with their radical agenda. In fact 97 percent of peer reviewed scientists have found that climate change is a serious threat and is at least exacerbated by humans. And there are serious flaws in the studies published by the 3 percent of scientists whose research suggests otherwise. A research review published last November found errors in the methodologies assumptions or analyses used by in those studies that when fixed put the findings in line with mainstream climate scientists. That consensus is so strong that in 2005 one of the standard bearers of the evangelical Christian politics in which Moore enshrouds himself planned to take a stance affirming the science. That year the National Association of Evangelicals proposed adopting a new platform called For the Health of a Nation. The position paper called for protecting Gods creation and embracing the governments help in doing so. But after receiving unanimous support by the board the 30 million member organization voted down the proposal kickstarting a campaign by fossil fuel interests to transform the doubt over global warming into what Splinter in a lengthy report published in August succinctly described as the word of God. White evangelical Christians more than 80 percent of whom supported Trump in last Novembers election are the least likely of any U.S. religious group to believe climate change is occurring according to 2015 data from the Pew Research Center. Just 28 percent of white evangelicals believe the planet is warming primarily due to human activity compared with 56 percent of black Protestants and 41 percent of white mainline Protestants who say the opposite. Roughly 37 percent of white evangelicals dont believe the climate is changing at all. This is a demographic Moore who attends the Gallant First Baptist Church near his home seems likely to tap. Alabama has the highest percentage of Baptists after Tennessee with 31 percent of residents in the state according to Pews 2014 Religious Landscape study. In December The Baptist Press the official media arm of the Southern Baptist Convention published an open letter of support for Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitts nomination amid fierce backlash over the former Oklahoma attorney generals rejection of the scientific consensus on climate change. On one side of that debate is a theological argument thats gained prominence in some corners of evangelical Christianity over the past decade. According to that interpretation God provided fossil fuels for humans to exploit and Christian environmentalists who believed in shifting to renewable energy were deceived by the false doctrine of the so called Green Dragon a demonic force that fooled people into putting the needs of the planet ahead of those of the poor. As a Christian I have a responsibility to try my best to be as wealthy as possible James Wanliss an associate professor of physics at Presbyterian College in South Carolina and the author ofThe Green Dragon Is Global Warming a Religion? told HuffPost. If youre grindingly poor youre just going to care about your next meal and too bad if trees get in your way. I see that some of the anthropogenic global warming rhetoric has been picked up by people who are really excited about trying to experiment with those types of systems in the West as a solution to those problemsWanliss said. As a Christian thats a problem to me because well aside from the philosophy behind those systems its just again empirically been disastrous. Roy Moore hes part of that culture Michael Hansen executive director of the Birmingham based environmental group Gasp and a former candidate in the Democratic primary for Senate told HuffPost. Something that I hear quite a bit from the right wing in Alabama is that God gave us fossil fuels for a reason. I wouldnt be surprised if Roy Moore said that at some point during his campaign. Alabama emerged in June from more than a year of the worst drought in memory affecting 98 percent of the state. The state braced twice in the past month for damage from the devastating series of hurricanes that struck neighboring states but it was spared the destruction after the winds weakened. Yet nearly 37 percent of Alabamians dont believe global warming is happening 7 percentage points below the national average according to survey data from the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication.	True	True	False	True	False
The word choices by administration officials and the extent to which they're going to avoid referencing global warming altogether are notable in the aftermath of recent severe hurricanes and in the face of questions about what could have caused them. In the wake of Hurricane Irma both Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of hurricanes. Instead they both said the focus should be on resiliency. Regardless of what causes disasters it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences Long told CNN. The only way we become resilient as a nation is we have to create that true culture of preparedness among our citizenry which we do not have and then we also have to look how we move forward when it comes to infrastructure protection. Duke echoed Long's thoughts on the need for resilience. We live in a changing world and as the FEMA administrator said we always have to look at not just the response but the preparedness and the resilience Duke said. And I think it's important that as we come together as a country we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response that we are adapting properly. Trump dismisses climate change question by contradicting himself on hurricanes Other departments are also adopting the language replacement in some cases making unannounced changes and replacements to their websites and names of programs. In February shortly after President Donald Trump took office the Department of Transportation and Federal Highway Administration changed language across its website relating to the environmental effects of transportation. The changes swapped words like adaptation with resilience and also renamed the Sustainable Transport and Climate Change Team to The Sustainable Transportation and Resilience Team according to a Environmental Data and Governance Initiative Website Tracking report That same month the Environmental Protection Agency removed all mention of climate change from its water utilities programs. The Climate Ready Water Utilities program was renamed to Creating Resilient Water Utilities. Other references to climate change were also scrubbed from the website Inside Climate News first reported. Over at the USDA an internal memo obtained by CNN that was shared in the first days of the administration to staffers gave specific guidance to ditch the term climate change adaptation and instead opt for resilience to weather extremes. The terms resilience and resiliency rose to popularity in the US government during former President Barack Obama's administration used specifically to denote preparing something to ward off the future effects of climate change. For example following Superstorm Sandy the Department of Housing and Urban Development established a first of its kind competition called the National Disaster Resilience Competition. The aim of the competition was to award grants to communities hit by natural disasters to fund rebuilding them to better weather future events worsened by climate change. The idea is when dollars are spent to rebuild you don't just want to rebuild the same old way you want to rebuild in a way that is smarter and makes it less likely that they will be effected the same way in the future storms that's resiliency former HUD Secretary Julian Castro who awarded the grant at the time told CNN. There's no question that climate change is at least a contributing factor to some of the intensity of these natural disasters. ... The administration ought to take that into consideration and not try to decouple those two Castro said. The verbal judo they are trying to do doesn't serve local communities at all. But administration officials counter that resiliency can have a dual meaning even one that means essentially the same thing but without the overt climate change undertones. Resilience came into our nomenclature in our last administration but that doesn't mean that it's a verboten word any longer said Brian Sullivan a HUD spokesman. The last administration made that very direct connection between the use of that word and words like sustainability with climate change and while there may be a reluctance to do that now I don't think that means folks are any less committed to making sure the next storm is less costly Sullivan said. While Sullivan acknowledged that there's been an intentional shift of language at the department especially as the topic of climate change continues to be discussed or avoided hand in hand with storm preparedness he argues that at the end of the day the administration has the same goals for rebuilding communities. I don't know if there's an operating definition of what resilience means he said. Regardless of why you're doing it what you're doing would be the same whatever motivates you. Whether you believe in climate change or you don't you are embarking on some future activity. We could tie this to climate change or we could tie it to saving taxpayer money.	True	False	True	True	False
President Donald Trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement has been portrayed in some press coverage as a decision driven by either his personal idiosyncrasies or the policy agenda of White House chief strategist Steve Bannon. And while theres an element of truth to that it misses the big picture. The reality is that this isnt just a story about Trump its a story about the Republican Party and the conservative movement which has adopted a rock solid widespread consensus in opposition to any serious action aimed at the US reducing carbon emissions. This has become a bedrock belief of the modern GOP. While we cant know if any other Republican president elected in 2016 would have for sure withdrawn from the Paris agreement many institutional actors within the GOP and the conservative movement from members of Congress including the Senate majority leader to think tanks to activist groups to media outlets to conservative donors including many with fossil fuel wealth strongly support this move and have in fact been urging Trump to make it. Furthermore even leading Republicans who might have supported sticking to the Paris deal it is after all non binding would have likely supported an agenda of weakening environmental regulations and taken little if any action aimed at reducing carbon emissions. The party simply does not believe climate change is a serious problem. The talking points differ Some deny humans are causing the planet to warm at all and say the very idea is a liberal hoax their number includes President Trump. More nuanced pundits and politicians acknowledge that the science is real but argue that even if it is accurate the consequences might not be so bad or that action would simply be too costly. But beyond a few notable exceptions the upshot is generally the same no matter where someone sits in the GOP that addressing climate change shouldnt be anywhere near the top of the presidents agenda. This is the consensus that the vast majority of the Republican Party from donors to politicians to intellectuals to voters has arrived at. Which makes it the crucial context for Trumps move Thursday. Though Trumps withdrawal from the Paris agreement has been received by some as a shocking move it was hardly a fringe position in the Republican Party he was being outright pressured to do it. But whether the US stayed in the Paris agreement or not it was crystal clear both before and after Thursdays announcement that the vast majority of the Republican Party supports an agenda of environmental deregulation and inaction on climate change. Take Trumps nominee to head the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt. All along it was clear that Pruitt would be a rock solid opponent of federal regulatory efforts aimed at reducing carbon emissions. As Brad Plumer wrote last year during Pruitts tenure as Oklahoma attorney general he joined or led state lawsuits to block virtually every major federal regulation around climate and air pollution that Obamas EPA has put forward and professed to believe that the science around climate change was unsettled. Anyone even remotely concerned about climate change should naturally have opposed Pruitts nomination to head the USs top environmental regulatory agency and yet the sole Republican senator who voted against Pruitts confirmation was Susan Collins of Maine. The vast majority of the partys politicians simply do not think its a problem to appoint an EPA administrator who doesnt take the climate science consensus seriously. The same is true of the GOPs grassroots In a 2016 Pew survey only 23 percent of Republican voters said they believed Earth was getting warmer because of human activity. The occasional notable Republican politician who does conclude that the scientific consensus is accurate and tries to work with Democrats on the issue gets slammed by these passionate and well organized groups and can face serious pressure from the right as happened to Lindsey Graham when he was working on a cap and trade bill in 2010 and got attacked by Fox News. So its no surprise that most in the party decide not to stick their necks out lest they run afoul of the base and risk a primary challenge. Even Mitt Romney one of the few major Republicans who openly called on Trump to stay in the Paris agreement in recent weeks dodged and obfuscated on climate change when he was actually running for president and facing electoral pressures. We dont know whats causing climate change he said in October 2011. I'm not in this race to slow the rise of the oceans or to heal the planet he joked in August 2012. He only started acknowledging the seriousness of the issue in 2015 years after his loss. The reality is that one of the USs two major political parties is institutionally committed at nearly every level to the same basic agenda of environmental deregulation and inaction on carbon emissions. Trumps withdrawal in Paris isnt an odd outlier but instead rests on that foundation.	False	False	False	True	False
At a town hall event in Ames Iowa Wednesday Democrat candidate for president Beto ORourke compared the Green New Deal to defeating the Nazis and surviving the Great Depression. Why is it that Democrats clearly lacking in any context of what World War II and living in the greatest generation were like enjoy comparing these things to mundane policy initiatives? Addressing the Green New Deal ORourke summoned his followers to harness the the most ingenious mechanism yet devised by humankind to free ourselves from a dependence on fossil fuels. The mechanism Robert Francis is referring to is a democracy. Meanwhile what comes out of Betos mouth next is not in fact ingenious. Its exactly what we did to face the Nazi threat the existential threat to Western democracies in 1941 he said. Exactly what we did to lift millions out of the Great Depression and build the largest middle class the world had yet seen. And is exactly what we need to do now to free ourselves from a dependence on fossil fuels greenhouse gas emissions invest in the jobs and technologies of renewable energy that will allow us to meet our obligation and allow this country once again to claim its status as the indispensable nation. Its hard not to look at this hyperactive Gen X er and think this is exactly what the far left has become a group that has rarely experienced hardship in their lifetime because of the greatest generation comparing everything they find upsetting to the greatest generation. Beto likes his World War II comparisons so much that he mentions it time and again when discussing the threat of global warming. Sure every time he mentions it ORourke is mocked relentlessly by those outside of his little campaign crowds. But he doesnt care because in his mind its real. How else to explain last months comments that environmental activists are just like those who were on the beaches in Normandy. When you think about leadership those who preceded us those who were on the beaches in Normandy those who faced an existential threat to Western democracy and our way of life they showed us the way he said referencing a plan to fight climate change. This is the final chance he added echoing Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez warning that the world will end due to climate change. The scientists are unanimous on this. We have no more than 12 years to take incredibly bold action on this crisis. Every time I watch this guy speak I think of the UPS Guy from Mad TV. How does a man who under normal circumstances would be working as a barista in the local coffee shop dole out knowledge of experience on World War II to a Democrat party who eagerly laps it up? How did the resistance get to this point? Its embarrassing.	False	True	False	False	False
CNN A new US government report delivers a dire warning about climate change and its devastating impacts saying the economy could lose hundreds of billions of dollars or in the worst case scenario more than 10 of its GDP by the end of the century. The federally mandated study was supposed to come out in December but was released by the Trump administration on Friday at a time when many Americans are on a long holiday weekend distracted by family and shopping. The global average temperature is much higher and is rising more rapidly than anything modern civilization has experienced and this warming trend can only be explained by human activities Easterling said. Coming from the US Global Change Research Program a team of 13 federal agencies the Fourth National Climate Assessment was put together with the help of 1000 people including 300 leading scientists roughly half from outside the government. Without significant reductions in greenhouse emissions the annual average global temperature could increase 9 degrees Fahrenheit 5 Celsius or more by the end of this century compared with preindustrial temperatures the report says. The costs of climate change could reach hundreds of billions of dollars annually according to the report. The Southeast alone will probably lose over a half a billion labor hours by 2100 due to extreme heat. Farmers will face extremely tough times. The quality and quantity of their crops will decline across the country due to higher temperatures drought and flooding. In parts of the Midwest farms will be able to produce less than 75 of the corn they produce today and the southern part of the region could lose more than 25 of its soybean yield. Heat stress could cause average dairy production to fall between 0.60 and 1.35 over the next 12 years having already cost the industry 1.2 billion from heat stress in 2010. Wildfire seasons already longer and more destructive than before could burn up to six times more forest area annually by 2050 in parts of the United States. Burned areas in Southwestern California alone could double by 2050. Dependable and safe water for the Hawaii the Caribbean and others are threatened by these rising temperatures. Along the US coasts public infrastructure and 1 trillion in national wealth held in real estate are threatened by rising sea levels flooding and storm surges. Energy systems will be taxed meaning more blackouts and power failures and the potential loss in some sectors could reach hundreds of billions of dollars per year by the end of the century the report said. The number of days over 100 degrees Fahrenheit will multiply Chicago where these days are rare could start to resemble Phoenix or Las Vegas with up to two months worth of these scorching hot days. Sea levels have already gone up 7 to 8 inches since 1900. Almost half that rise has been since 1993 a rate of rise greater than during any century in the past 2800 years. Some countries are already seeing land underwater. By midcentury it's likely that the Arctic will lose all sea ice in late summer and that could lead to more permafrost thaw according to the report. As the permafrost thaws more carbon dioxide and methane would be released amplifying human induced warming possibly significantly. What can be done The report was created to inform policy makers and makes no specific recommendations on how to remedy the problem. However it suggests that if the United States immediately reduced its fossil fuel use and greenhouse gas emissions it could save thousands of lives and generate billions of dollars in benefits for the country. Reactions to the new report have been strong across the scientific community. In Houston communities of color have endured back to back major weather events without the acknowledgment from Washington that climate change is the cause. We've known for years that it's true and it's important to our organizing and our local policy efforts that information like this is not only considered but believed and acted upon. Scientists who have been raising the alarm about the negative consequences of climate change for years welcomed the findings.	True	False	False	True	True
Scientists say that 2016 has been confirmed as the warmest year on record. Photo GettyEyeEm The evidence behind global climate change continues to mount and scientists keep speaking out. Now they hope the world will listen. The latest international climate report from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA confirms that 2016 was the third consecutive year of record global heat. On Thursday afternoon the American Meteorological Society published the 27th annual State of the Climate report which verifies last year surpassed 2015 as the hottest since record keeping began in 1880. Based on preliminary data NASA and NOOA had made the same assessment back in January but this weeks report is considered definitive. Were scientists and were providing objective information Jessica Blunden a climate scientist at NOAAs National Climatic Data Center in Asheville N.C. told Yahoo News. We dont go into policy but we provide the information for people who want to go further with that. According to the report the effect of long term global warming and a powerful El Nio early on pushed 2016 into record setting warmth. The global average sea level reached a new record high last year as well to 3.25 inches above the average level in 1993 which marks the beginning of the satellite altimeter record. Scientists also said that the average Arctic land surface temperature continued to warm and global ice and snow cover continued to decline. Sea ice extents in the Antarctic hit record daily and monthly lows in August and November. The State of the Climate report is based on contributions from nearly 500 scientists from more than 60 countries using tens of thousands of measurements from several independent data sets. This summary of the global climate confirms data released on Jan. 18 based on analyses from scientists at NASAs Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York. Blunden said the use of additional independent data sets distinguishes this report from what came before. The big difference in this report is we dont just look at NOAA data. There are about four different independent data sets we looked at to come to this conclusion Blunden told Yahoo News. Its not just NOAA who is agreeing with it. NASA the U.K. Met Office and the Japan Meteorological Agency are agreeing. Since the previous data was released mere days before President Trumps inauguration this peer reviewed report is the most thorough assessment of climate change officially released during the Trump era. Deke Arndt chief of the climate monitoring branch at NOAAs National Centers for Environmental Information described the report as diagnostic when asked if anyone from the White House had weighed in on itor questioned its findings. This report is a diagnostic report. It basically diagnoses what is happening in the climate system Arndt said on a conference call. Its intended to provide intelligence to those sort of decision makers that youre talking about. Concentrations of major greenhouse gases in the atmosphere also reached to new highs in 2016. For instance the global average concentration of carbon dioxide CO2 the primary driver of anthropogenic climate change in the atmosphere reached 402.9 parts per million ppm. This was the first time on record that CO2 concentration exceeded 400 ppm. The consensus of climate scientists is that the maximum safe level is 350.	True	False	False	True	False
Sen. Kamala Harris was the first candidate to mention the Green New Deal in the first presidential debate when she corrected NBC moderator Chuck Todd. I dont even call it climate change she said. Its a climate crisisThat is why I support a Green New Deal. And yet of the top four presidential candidates Harris has the thinnest legislative record when it comes to climate change her 2019 bill to electrify school bus fleetshas taken only a slice at the problem. On Mondaythe day beforethe second round of debates among the 20 Democratic presidential hopefuls she released the first major climate proposal of her campaign partnering with the original author of the Green New Deal resolution Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez. The proposal called the Climate Equity Act is not a comprehensive plan for addressing the climate crisis or cutting pollution but it focuses on addressing equity and environmental racism echoing the broader themes of Harris campaign. It does begin to answer one of the key questions around the Green New Deal debate which is how to include low income and communities of colorthe frontline voices facing the most dire effects of climate changein the legislative process. From the toxic air embattling Cancer Alley in Louisiana and Asthma Alley in the Bronx to the unsafe drinking water in Californias San Joaquin Valley and Flint Michigan Harris said the nations bedrock environmental protections have not stopped frontline communities from continually falling through the cracks. The proposal requires that any environmental legislation receive an equity score to assess its impact on frontline communities much in the same way the Congressional Budget Office scores the economic costs and impacts of bills. The proposal also requires an extra level of scrutiny for White House executive actions on low income communities and people of color and feedback from those affected communities. A new Climate and Environmental Justice officewouldcoordinate all the impact assessment efforts. We cannot accept a status quo where children of color are drinking toxic water in Flint or breathing toxic air in Louisianas Cancer AlleyHarris said in a statement. This systemic environmental injustice will only get worse and become more ingrained if climate and environmental policies like the Green New Deal do not specifically focus on lifting up these communities. Mustafa Ali the former head of the EPA environmental justice office noted that the idea of scoring environmental justice impacts is something advocates have pushed for years. When you look at where most of the fossil fuel facilities are located they are in communities of color Ali said. That same pollution is warming up our planet and warming our oceans. People are starting to pay at lot of attention to climate change and have to address the environmental injustices. Harris is not the only presidential candidate who has come out with a plan focused on environmental justice.Jay Inslee released the fifth plank of his climate change package on Monday that refocuses the White House Council of Environmental Quality as a new clearinghouse for environmental justice and has its own scoring mechanism for impacts. Ali points out an equity score is potentially significant because it helps put up a wall of protections around those communitiesaddingI think its just now starting to gather steam.	True	False	False	True	False
Despite longstanding opposition to renewable energy on the part of President Trump who gave a rambling nearly incoherent disquisition on windmills last weekend the wind power industry in the United States continued to grow in 2019. The country set records for newly installed capacity of wind power in both the second and third quarters of 2019 according to a report by the American Wind Energy Association reaching a total of 100 gigawatts roughly on a par with nuclear plants although in terms of actual power generated as distinguished from theoretical capacity wind is still a fraction of nuclear and fossil fuels. Wind now supplies clean and efficient power to the equivalent of 32 million American homes sustains 500 U.S. factories and delivers more than 1 billion a year in new revenue to rural communities and states Tom Kernan CEO of AWEA said in a statement. At a time when global carbon emissions that cause climate change continue to rise wind power now accounts for 6.5 percent of the energy America produces. Once the wind turbines are constructed the energy they produce is carbon neutral and renewable indefinitely. Yet Trump who believes that climate change is a hoax is no fan of windmills as he once again made clear last weekend in a speech in Florida. Well have an economy based on wind. I never understood wind. You know I know windmills very much. Ive studied it better than anybody. I know its very expensive. Theyre made in China and Germany mostly very few made here almost none. But theyre manufactured tremendous if youre into this tremendous fumes Trump asserted. Gases are spewing into the atmosphere. You know we have a world right? So the world is tiny compared to the universe. So tremendous tremendous amount of fumes and everything. You talk about the carbon footprint fumes are spewing into the air. Right? Spewing. Whether its in China Germany its going into the air. Its our air their air everything right? So they make these things and then they put them up. Trump who filed an unsuccessful lawsuit against the government of Scotland to block the construction of offshore wind turbines he said would mar the views from one of his golf resorts also complained in his Florida speech that wind turbines killed birds. Go under a windmill someday you'll see more birds than you've ever seen ever in your life Trump said. While it is true that an estimated 234000 birds die each year in collisions with wind turbines according to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service many more are killed by flying into buildings or by domestic cats. In 2018 the Trump administration eliminated criminal penalties for unintentional migratory bird deaths resulting from industrial or agricultural activity the New York Times reported. Despite the rapid growth in the construction of wind power facilities across the U.S. the Interior Department announced in August that it was withholding approval for a wind project off the coast of Massachusetts similar to the one Trump opposed in Scotland. Interior Department spokesman Nicholas Goodwin said in a statement that the government needed to make sure the project was safe and environmentally responsible. In April Trump without citing any evidence told a Republican audience that wind turbines were dangerous to human health. They say the noise causes cancer Trump said. That claim like all the others Trump has made about wind power was quickly refuted. The American Cancer Society is unaware of any credible evidence linking the noise from windmills to cancer a spokesman for the group told the Times in an email. None Behind Pelosis risky strategy to withhold impeachment from Senate None What happens to the articles of impeachment now? None Trump impeachment FAQ What you need to know	True	False	False	True	True
A top Oregon Senate Democrat on Tuesday flinched in the face of a Republican walkout acknowledging that there are not enough votes to pass a major bill to address climate change. House Bill 2020 does not have the votes on the Senate floor said Senate President Peter Courtney Tuesday morning in an admission of defeat. That will not change. The central provision of House Bill 2020 is to institute a cap and trade mechanism for carbon dioxide across the state a mechanism to cut emissions 45 percent below 1990 levels by 2035 and 80 percent by 2050. Its a long thorough piece of legislation that mandates carbon emission reductions across the states economy while accounting for job quality standards and economic equity. And it would make Oregon the second state after New York with a legally binding economy wide greenhouse gas reduction target. Theres been incredible work going into that bill Courtney said. But according to Rick Osborn communications director for the Oregon Senate Majority office Democrats werent able to muster the votes for HB 2020 within their own caucus. Oregon Republicans argued that the bill would harm their rural constituents and energy intensive industries like cement production. They also said they were being bullied by Senate Democrats. And so 11 of them fled the state capitol on Thursday apparently to an undisclosed location in Idaho to deny quorum for a vote on the bill. Yet the walkout now appears to have been a highly politicized charade since Democrats may not have had the votes to begin with. My understanding is that it was known last week before the Republicans walked out Osborn told Vox. Courtneys admission is not rewarding Senate Republicans for bad behavior. Democratic Gov. Kate Brown nonetheless last week sent state police to find the lawmakers and instituted a 500 per day fine per person for each day they werent present at a legislative session. The Republicans are not standing against climate change theyre standing against democracy she said during a press conference Tuesday. Republicans had used the moment as an opportunity to appear defiant with one Republican state senator Brian Boquist even threatening police. Lawmakers closed down the capitol on Saturday after receiving credible threats from militia groups in favor of the Republican walkout. On Tuesday some of the Republicans in hiding were not sure what to make of Courtneys statement about the votes. And they werent committing to returning to work either according to Oregon Public Broadcastings Lauren Dake Even if Courtney wants to throw in the towel it may not be easy to kill the climate change bill to bring Republicans back to Salem as the Oregonian explained Although Courtney wields significant power in the Senate he cannot easily kill the climate bill in order to secure Republicans return. One possible first step could be for the Senate to vote to send the bill back to a committee but such a vote could not happen without a quorum meaning at least two Republicans would have to return to the Capitol. Another option that would also require a quorum could be a motion to postpone the bill indefinitely which under Senate rules would mean the bill could not be considered during this legislative session. If and when the bill dies it would be a painful defeat for Democrats who won legislative supermajorities in both chambers of the Oregon legislature in the last election. Oregon has also been working on carbon pricing policies since 1997. The concession from Democrats may have been motivated by a time constraint. The Oregon state legislative session ends on June 30 and more than 100 bills including funding for several state agencies are at risk of being scrapped. Democrats have conceded to Republican walkouts before yielding on major gun control and vaccine legislation. This latest surrender likely means that state Republicans despite being in the minority will continue to hold a veto over Democrats agenda.	True	True	False	True	False
According to data fromBrazils National Institute for Space Research NISR which monitors deforestation and wildfires around 74000 fires have occurred across the Amazon rainforest in 2019 an 84 percent increase from the same period in 2018. Macron took to Twitter on Thursday to express concern about the fires that have reached a record number this year devastating vast swathes of forest long described as the lungs of the earth. Our house is burning. Literally. The Amazon rain forest the lungs which produces 20 of our planets oxygen is on fire Macron wrote on Twitter. It is an international crisis. Members of the G7 Summit lets discuss this emergency first order in two days Meanwhile a spokesperson for the Elyse Palace said that in light of Brazils attitude these recent weeks Macron can only conclude that President Bolsonaro lied to him during the Osaka Summit in June where world leaders agreed on the urgent need to combat climate change pollution and environmental destruction. The decisions and statements from Brazil these recent weeks show clearly that President Bolsonaro has decided to not respect his commitments on the climate nor to involve himself on the issue of biodiversity the spokesperson said. As a consequence Macron now plans to veto any trade deal in its current state between the European Union and the Mercosur bloc of South American nations including Brazil Argentina Paraguay and Uruguay. Posting on Facebook Bolsonaro accused Macron of making personal political gains in an internal matter for Brazil and other Amazonian countries adding that the sensationalist tone he used does nothing to solve the problem. These countries that send money here they dont send it out of charity he said.They send it with the aim of interfering with our sovereignty. Yet amid rising international pressure the 63 year old former army captain reportedly signed an executive order deploying the military to help reduce the wildfires which he previously blamed on NGOs who were seeking to undermine his administration. On the question of burning in the Amazon which in my opinion may have been initiated by NGOs because they lost money what is the intention? Bolsonaro told reporters in Brasilia. Maybe I am not affirming it these NGOs are carrying out some criminal actions to draw attention against me against the government of Brazil. This is the war we are facing.	True	True	False	True	False
In a new study economist and environmental analyst Nicholas Loris explained that climate change simply isnt responsible for Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. Bottom line Loriss analysis stated that man made warming was not responsible forHarvey and Irma. Man made warming did not cause Harvey and Irma Loris wrote. As carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions have increased there have been no trends in global tropical cycle landfalls. Loris said that the average number of hurricanes per decade reaching landfall in the U.S. has fallen over the past 160 years. He added that the study is based on concrete mainstream science and cited reports from The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and NOAA to corroborate hisanalysis. Loris also disputedassertions that global warming supercharged these hurricanes which made them deadlier citing work by University of Washington climatologist Cliff Mass and former director of the National Hurricane Center Bill Read both of whom rejected this claim after conducting research into the phenomenon. With the eastern seaboard still in the thick of hurricane season as well asthe most recent devastation caused by Category 5 Hurricane Maria which was said to cripple Dominica with widespread devastation en route to Puerto Rico and possibly the States its important to maintainlevelheaded perspective and communication on natural disasters while speakingtruth amidstapprehension. In a hyper political environment pro climate change and anti climate change theory rhetoric serves only to distract from the real issue at hand the necessity of serving people impacted by natural disasters and the implementation ofstandardized response to these crises. While much of the media and government is ensconced in creating division among political parties and ideologies its more important to avoid playing into alarmist rhetoric whichonly serves to encourage people throughanxiety and panic. Instead of focusing on the apprehensionand divisiveness surrounding the causes of natural disasters its more important than ever that we maintain our humanity and come together tohelp one another.	True	True	False	False	True
Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro has ruled out accepting a G7 offer of aid to fight fires in the Amazon rainforest unless he gets an apology from his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron. Mr Bolsonaro said the French leader should apologise for insulting him personally by calling him a liar. Mr Macron had accused him of lying about fighting climate change. Aid worth 22m 18m was announced by Mr Macron at a summit in France of the seven leading industrial powers. Satellite data show a record number of fires burning in Brazil most of them in the Amazon region. Earlier Brazilian ministers said the G7 money was not needed and they accused foreign powers of wanting control of the Amazon. Last week Mr Macron said Mr Bolsonaro had lied to him at a G20 summit in Osaka Japan in June by failing to respect his climate commitments and by failing to pursue biodiversity. Mr Macron said France would not ratify a huge trade deal with South American nations unless Brazil did more to fight fires in the Amazon. On Tuesday Mr Bolsonaro told reporters in the capital Brasilia Mr Macron must withdraw the insults that he made to my person. Firstly he called me a liar. He also accused Mr Macron of questioning Brazilian sovereignty over the Amazon region Brazilian news website G1 reports. To talk or to accept anything from France whether it be with the best possible intentions he Mr Macron will have to withdraw those words and then we can talk he said. The two presidents hold sharply different political views with Mr Bolsonaro hailing from the far right in Brazil and Mr Macron elected in a run off against the far right in France. In another development Mr Bolsonaro responded to a joke on Facebook mocking the age of Mr Macron's wife Brigitte who at 65 is 25 years his senior. He wrote Do not humiliate the guy ha ha. Asked about Mr Bolsonaro's remarks Mr Macron said they were extraordinarily rude and sad. Adding to the row over the aid offer Mr Bolsonaro's chief of staff Onyx Lorenzoni mocked the fire that ravaged Notre Dame cathedral in Paris in April. Macron cannot even avoid a predictable fire in a church that is part of the world's heritage and he wants to give us lessons for our country? he said quoted by the Globo news website. As the largest rainforest in the world the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming. It spans a number of countries but the majority of it falls within Brazil. Wildfires often occur in the dry season in Brazil but satellite data published by Brazil's space agency show an increase of 80 this year. BBC analysis has also found that the record number of fires being recorded coincides with a sharp drop in fines being handed out for environmental violations. Mr Bolsonaro has previously said his government lacks the resources to fight the record number of fires in the Amazon region but his government is also being accused of slashing funding for environmental protection. The funding for Brazil's environment agency has gone down by 95 this year Yadvinder Malhi professor of Ecosystem Science at the University of Oxford told the BBC's Today programme. On Friday President Bolsonaro authorised the military to help tackle the blazes. Brazil says 44000 soldiers have been deployed to combat the fires and environmental crimes in the Amazon and military operations are under way in seven states as the result of requests for assistance from local governments. Jorgimar Alberto from Roraima one of the states most affected by the fires has seen the burning of most of the land surrounding his wooden house. It's a risky situation we have lots of crops here and everything is burning such as the cashew trees he told the BBC. I even had to keep the animals inside so that they don't burn as well. Every year it is the same these fires are disturbing the region a lot. Environmental officials helped him extinguish the fires last week only for them to reignite he said. His wife could not stand staying in the house with the smell of burning and the threat getting ever closer so she left. Lumberyard owner Edson Oliveira from southern Amazonas said he did not believe the media coverage about the Amazon. In my opinion the parts that are burning are the same that burn every year he told the BBC. Asked what he would like politicians to do for the Amazon he said that he would like economic alternatives for people here to find a way we can make use of the natural wealth we have here. It's no use pointing the finger at what's wrong without bringing alternatives to people he said. The 22m was announced on Monday as the leaders of the G7 Canada France Germany Italy Japan the UK and the US met in Biarritz France. Mr Macron said the funds would be made available immediately primarily to pay for more firefighting planes and that France would also offer concrete support with military in the region. Greenpeace France described the G7's response to the crisis as inadequate given the urgency and magnitude of this environmental disaster. As international concern over the fires spread Hollywood actor Leonardo DiCaprio pledged 5m towards helping the rainforest. He has long maintained that European countries are trying to gain access to Brazil's natural resources. He alleges that European interest in the welfare of the Amazon is a thin guise for attempts to gain a foothold in the region. Asked by international journalists about environmental protection of the Amazon at a press briefing on 6 July he said Brazil is like a virgin that every pervert from the outside lusts for.	False	True	False	True	True
Brazil called up its military to combat fires that are raging in the Amazon after international protests over the governments seeming unwillingness to act in the face of an environmental disaster. Around 44000 troops and military aircraft will be made available for what has been described as an unprecedented effort to fight fires in at least six Brazilian states. It remains unclear how many of those troops will be put on the line to combat the forest fires. Although fires are common this time of year they are more widespread. So far nearly 77000 wildfires have been reported across the country this year which marked an 85 percent increase from the same period last year. And while the fires have been burning for weeks the international outcry grew this week as photographs spread on social media. Protests took place in Brazil and across the world Friday and Saturday demanding that the Brazilian government take action. Much of the attention has focused on Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro a long time critic of the countrys environmental regulations who had tried to minimize the effects of the fires. Yet his tune appeared to change after leaders in Europe said a major trade deal could be at risk and many on social media started calling for a boycott of Brazilian products. Bolsonaro approved the involvement of the military to help put out fires in a televised speech Friday in which he claimed his government would have zero tolerance for environmental crimes. Protecting the rain forest is our duty he said. That was quite a change in tune for a president who had previously described environmental protections as an impediment for economic growth and had blamed non governmental organizations of starting the fires. Yet despite the new found sense of urgency some are skeptical that the involvement of the military would really be able to do much. Once you have a huge forest fire like that especially when you dont have all the kind of forest fire fighting equipment that you have in places like the U.S. or Portugal its difficult to extinguish Alfredo Sirkis executive director of Brazil Climate Center a think tank said. Theyll only be extinguished by themselves depending on the weather conditions. It was clear though that deploying the military was also in part a public relations ploy. A military leader for example said that part of its mission involved creating a positive perception of the country. As attention focused on the fires burning in the Amazon it became clear that Europeans have taken the role as the global leaders in the fight against climate change notes the New York Times. As European leaders led by French President Emanuel Macron criticized Brazil for its inaction President Donald Trump waited until Friday evening to say that the United States was willing to help only to add that future trade prospects with Brazil are very exciting.	True	False	True	True	True
If WeWork employees want a burger while on business the money is coming out of their own pockets. The global workplace startup told employees this week that the company will ban employees from expensing meals that contain red meat pork or poultryBloomberg reported. The company won't provide meat for events at its 400 locations eitherpart of an effort to reduceits environmental footprint. New research indicates that avoiding meat is one of the biggest things an individual can do to reduce their personal environmental impact even more than switching to a hybrid carWeWork co founder MiguelMcKelvey said in an email to staffers. The no meat policy will also affect self serve food kiosks at many of WeWork's 400 locations worldwide according to Bloomberg. Employees wanting medical or religious exceptions can hash those out witha company policy team. More As co working grows up niche spaces take center stage WeWork boasts 6000 employees worldwide according to Bloomberg. The companyestimates its no meat policy will save15507103 animals by 2023 according to Business Insider along with16.6 billion gallons of water and445.1 million pounds of carbon dioxide theheat trapping gas that alters Earth's climate. WeWork confirmed the policy change to both news outlets. WeWork is perhaps the most well known company to emerge offering co working spaces to freelancers small businesses and even employees of large companies such as Microsoft. The Motley Fool named it one of the top five most valuable startups in America.	True	True	False	True	True
Reuters Rhode Island on Monday sued several major oil companies including Exxon Mobil Corp and BP plc accusing them of contributing to climate change that is damaging infrastructure and coastal communities in the state. The lawsuit announced by Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Kilmartin was the first by a state seeking to hold oil companies responsible for costs associated with climate change and followed similar cases by several local governments nationally. The lawsuit alleged that various oil companies had created a public nuisance in the state and failed to adequately warn customers consumers and regulators about the risks posed by their products. For a very long time there has been this perception that Big Oil was too big to take on but here we are the smallest state taking on some of the biggest corporate polluters in the world Kilmartin said in a statement. The lawsuit filed in Providence County Superior Court named as defendants Exxon BP Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Chevron Corp among other companies. Shell in a statement said lawsuits that masquerade as climate action and impede the collaboration needed for meaningful change were not the answer to climate change. The other companies did not respond to requests for comment. The lawsuit by the Democratic attorney general follows similar cases by U.S. cities and local governments arguing the production of fossil fuels had led to rising tides that damaged shorelines roads and other properties requiring remediation. The lawsuit contended that the companies sought to refute scientific findings regarding how greenhouse gas pollution was causing climate change and failed to prevent the harm that would result from consumers using fossil fuel products. The lawsuit said that companies also violated the states Environmental Rights Act by polluting and destroying natural resources in Rhode Island. Kilmartin is seeking to force the companies to pay for damages associated with climate change citing the costs taxpayers were incurring to repair roads and bridges and rebuild coastal structures. The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages as well as orders requiring the companies to pay abatement costs and to disgorge profits.	True	True	False	True	True
Alexandria Ocasio Cortez has found something else to blame on the supposed climate crisis. A few weeks ago she let us all know that heavy rain in a city built on a swamp was absolute proof of catastrophic global warming. She posted a picture of a few inches of water and called it unprecedented flooding even though Washington D.C. has had actual major floods several times throughout its relatively short history. Then there was the explosion at an oil refinery which despite not being a weather event at all nor being caused by one was somehow the fault of climate change. Weird how everything just so happens to reinforce her political narrative and now shes back with another hot take. You see it rained in New York City and that was obviously caused by global warming. Did it rain a lot? No not really. There was no record rainfall or a weeks worth of severe storms. It justrained something it has presumably been doing there for millions of years. In reality New York Citys subway system is a dumpster fire of mismanagement. The citys communist Mayor Bill de Blasio has run it into the ground with stupid financial decisions and misuse of funds. You see theyve got money to pay for illegal aliens healthcare but they cant keep the trains running or the sewage systems from backing up. The flooding in this case wasnt because of a massive downpour. It was because the infrastructure is falling apart. If a pipe bursts in your house thats not the fault of climate change. On a broader note Im confused. What happened to climate change leading to massive desertification and droughts? Now the alarmists want to complain about rain and flooding as if those are new phenomenons on the earth? Wouldnt those be good things in the face of supposed extreme heat? But making sense isnt a tenant of the climate religion. Ive got a new twitter! Please help by following 	True	False	False	True	False
Unchecked climate change will cost the US hundreds of billions of dollars and damage human health and quality of life a US government report warns. Future risks from climate change depend... on decisions made today the 4th National Climate Assessment says. The report says climate change is presenting growing challenges to human health and safety quality of life and the rate of economic growth. The warning is at odds with the Trump administration's fossil fuels agenda. During a blast of icy weather in Washington this week Donald Trump tweeted whatever happened to global warming? Now without mentioning the president his own scientists have answered their boss's question in comprehensive detail. Global warming is here in the United States they say now. It is already deadly serious and without urgent dramatic change it will be catastrophic. This report is striking for two reasons. First it is not abstract. It gives many specific examples overwhelmed dams in South Carolina failing crops in the parched Great Plains a rise in insect borne disease in Florida. And secondly it majors on the economic impact in effect challenging the White House's insistence on prioritising economic growth over environmental regulation. With warnings about the effects on crumbling infrastructure falling crop yields and decreasing labour productivity the report sounds an alarm that climate change will soon cascade into every corner of American life. The White House said the report compiled with help from numerous US government agencies and departments was inaccurate. Spokeswoman Lindsay Walters said it was largely based on the most extreme scenario which contradicts long established trends by assuming that... there would be limited technology and innovation and a rapidly expanding population. The world's leading scientists agree that climate change is human induced and warn that natural fluctuations in temperature are being exacerbated by human activity. The US climate assessment outlines the prospective impacts of climate change across every sector of American society. With continued growth in emissions at historic rates annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century more than the current gross domestic product GDP of many US states the report says. Without substantial and sustained global mitigation and regional adaptation efforts climate change is expected to cause growing losses to American infrastructure and property and impede the rate of economic growth over this century. The report notes that the effects of climate change are already being felt in communities across the country including more frequent and intense extreme weather and climate related events. But it says that projections of future catastrophe could change if society works to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to adapt to the changes that will occur. Environmental groups said the report underlined their demands for action. Brenda Ekwurzel director of climate science at the Union of Concerned Scientists and one of the report's authors said the report made it clear that climate change was not some problem in the distant future. It's happening right now in every part of the country she said. That view was echoed by Abigail Dillen president of environmental group Earthjustice. While President Trump continues to ignore the threat of climate change his own administration is sounding the alarm she said. In October President Trump accused climate change scientists of having a political agenda telling Fox News he was unconvinced that humans were responsible for the earth's rising temperatures. After taking office he announced the US would withdraw from the Paris climate change agreement which commits another 187 other countries to keeping rising global temperatures well below 2C above pre industrial levels. At the time Mr Trump said he wanted to negotiate a new fair deal that would not disadvantage US businesses and workers. During his election campaign in 2016 Mr Trump said climate change was a hoax. However he has since rowed back on that statement saying in a recent interview I don't think it's a hoax I think there's probably a difference. A report released in October by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC the leading international body evaluating climate change said it could only be stopped if the world made major and costly changes. That means reducing global emissions of CO2 by 45 from 2010 levels by 2030 and reducing coal use to almost zero and using up to seven million sq km 2.7 million square miles for land energy crops. If the world fails to act the researchers warned there would be some significant and dangerous changes to our world including rising sea levels significant impacts on ocean temperatures and acidity and the ability to grow crops such as rice maize and wheat.	True	False	False	False	False
You all know that oftentimes the first folks that get flooded out are the poorest communities. Theyre often communities of color. Theyre the ones who can least afford to deal with the climate crisis he said during the CNN town hall. We know that this climate crisis is going to affect all Americans and all folks around the world but we also know that its going to hit some people particularly hard people that are the first people to get affected he said. Castro said that after he announced his campaign he first went to San Juan Puerto Rico to make sure that they could recover from Hurricane Maria. I think about poor communities along the east coast he said. Frankly I connect the dot to places like Flint Michigan and I know that too oftentimes its people who are poor communities of color who take the brunt of storms that are getting more frequent and powerful. He said his climate plan calls for new civil rights legislation to address environmental injustice including making sure people could file lawsuits against polluters. We need to invest in these communities and their ability to withstand storms and other natural disasters and their ability to have something as simple as clean water or breathe clean air he said. He said as former Housing and Urban Development secretary in the Obama administration he found out that 70 percent of HUD funded public or subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site. Thats the environmentalinjustice and racism that were dealing with and my plan would equip Americans with the tools tofight back and also make investments so that we can bring justice to what isright now a tremendous injustice he said. He said to pay for his plan he would create a carbon pollution fee on corporations who are industrial scale polluters.	True	True	False	True	False
The EPAs announcement makes no mention of the risks coal ash poses to human health and the environment. Rather the agency justified its move by noting it is expected to save the utility sector between 31 and 100 million annually. Todays coal ash proposal embodies EPAs commitment to our state partners by providing them with the ability to incorporate flexibilities into their coal ash permit programs based on the needs of their states Pruitt said in a statement. Coal fired power plants in the United States produce roughly 140 million tons of coal ash per year containing toxic heavy metals such as arsenic lead selenium and other carcinogenic substances. The waste product is typically stored in wet ponds nearly 46 percent of which operated without liners to prevent hazardous chemicals from seeping into groundwater according to 2012 data released by the EPA. Living within a mile of a wet coal ash storage pond poses a greater health threat than smoking a pack of cigarettes a day raising the risk of cancer to one in 50 an EPA study from 2010 found. Children are particularly at risk of learning disabilities birth defects asthma and cancer with 1.54 million living near such storage sites according to EPA data cited by the Sierra Club. This is the second biggest toxic pollution threat in our country and we need to clean it up not make things easier for polluters Earthjustice attorney Lisa Evans said in a statement. People living near more than a thousand toxic coal ash sites are at risk. They face contaminated drinking water toxic dust in the air and serious health threats just because the EPA is choosing to side with polluters over the public. In 2014 the EPA catalogued 158 cases where coal ash compromised water quality including 22 that involved recycled waste product. And a government study in 2012 estimated that the damage to fish and wildlife at 21 disposal sites came at a cost of more than 2.3 billion enough money to construct 155 landfills with state of the art composite liners and leachate collection systems. The rule change marks the Trump administrations latest rollback of clean water regulations at a time when drinking water contamination crises are proliferating across the country. In February 2017 less than a month after taking office President Donald Trump signed a bill to allow coal companies to dump waste into streams. In June the EPA moved to repeal the 2015 Waters of the U.S. rule that extended 1972 Clean Water Act protections to roughly 20 million acres of wetlands and streams. The agency formally suspended the rule on Jan. 31. Scrapping the only federal rules on coal ash presents a major problem in the face of storms floods and other extreme weather made more frequent and intense by climate change. When Hurricane Maria made landfall over Puerto Rico last year flood waters swelled the river in the city of Guayama wreaking havoc on the citys 42000 residents and distributing its five story tall tower of coal ash. Coal ash in particular has long been a hot button issue in the utility industry. In 2014 Duke Energy one of the countrys biggest power companies spilled nearly 39000 tons of coal ash into the Dan River causing one of North Carolinas biggest environmental disasters in its history. In 2016 then Gov. Pat McCrory R signed a bill that dramatically watered down legislation forcing Duke to clean up its coal ash pits without requiring the company to excavate the waste or provide clean water to residents near the pond. Yet two years later the company is still battling environmentalists and regulators in the state as the utility seeks to pass the cleanup costs onto ratepayers in the form of a price hike. In a separate legal fight over coal ash the Tennessee Valley Authority the nations biggest public utility last month appealed a federal judges order to clean up decades of coal ash environmentalists say poisoned water in the Volunteer State. Eighteen states and an alliance of big corporate interests urged an appeals court to overturn the decision last month. Gutting the EPAs rules on coal ash pollution takes some pressure off the utilities but thrusts the industry back into the sort of regulatory uncertainty Pruitt vowed to alleviate. In 2014 before the EPA passed its coal ash rule the American Coal Ash Association a trade group complained about regulatory uncertainty that has impeded the beneficial use of coal ash for half a decade. Its unclear whether Pruitts new rule promotes recycling coal ash for other uses. Coal ash can be used to pave roads though the environmentalists say even that poses pollution risks. And last year Purdue University researchers announced new technology to sift rare earth elements highly valued components used in electronics and renewable energy hardware out of coal ash waste. Thomas Adams executive director of the American Coal Ash Association said he hopes the next part of the EPAs announcement will include changing a rule that mandates companies to go through a risk evaluation when stockpiling more than 12400 tons of coal ash for anything other than road projects. The EPA set the threshold in 2015 based on what Adams called an arithmetic error that he argued hurts the market for using coal ash in cement manufacturing or to fill structures such as building foundations. He said he hopes the EPA will raise the limit to 75000 tons. Thursdays announcement is part of a broader effort by the Trump administration to end a perceived war on coal waged by the Obama administration. Last year the Utility Solid Waste Activities Group petitioned the EPA to roll back the Obama era coal ash rule calling it burdensome inflexible and often impracticable. The organization of some 80 utilities warned that regulating coal ash disposal would result in significant economic and operational impacts to coal fired power generation and could even force power plants to shut down.	True	False	False	True	True
Biden took questions from a group in New Castle New Hampshire Friday. One woman associated with the environmental group 350 New Hampshire Action Rebecca Beaulieu asked Biden how voters can trust him if he continues to associate himself with fossil fuel executives. How can we trust that youre going to act on climate on the climate crisis if youre still attending fundraisers that fossil fuel executives are attending? Beaulieuasked according to the Daily Mail. Video shows Biden walking over to the woman taking her hand and making a solemn promise to end fossil fuel before 2050 God willing. Kiddo I want you to just take a look. I want you to look into my eyes Biden began. I guarantee you I guarantee you we are going to end fossil fuel and I am not going to cooperate with them. Before 2050 God willing Biden continued adding that 2030 is not a realistic goal No it cant be done by 2030. No not one single person is arguing it can be done by that. But it can be done by 2050. Maybe 2045? And is the science increases we may be able to move more quickly. But we have to we can fundamentally change things in the next 10 years though so that we set a path? I promise you I promise you. OK. Beaulieu 24 said she wasnt expecting that kind of response from Biden and described it as patronizing. Just a little patronizing because I want to be an adult at the table when it comes to conversations about climate and what were going to do about it and I dont want to be like someone whos sitting on the sidelines waiting for other people to act she said according to the Daily Mail. Im also like actively doing something to try to combat this climate crisis as it stands. Being called a kid is a little patronizing when Im trying to do so much work she added. She also said she was unsatisfied with Bidens refusal to bend his 2050 goal. But I hope that he takes the climate crisis as seriously as he tried to make it seem and that if hes going to keep moving forward with his plans he needs to reevaluate because 2050 is too late she said. Biden recently came under fire for attending a fundraiser hosted by Andrew Goldman a founder of the natural gas company Western LNG. The former vice president dismissed concerns telling viewers of CNNs climate change town hall Wednesday that Goldman is not a fossil fuel executive. He is not a fossil fuel executive Biden said. And the fact of the matter is that what we talk about is what are we going to do about those corporations? What have we done? And everywhere along the way for example Ive argued and pushed for us suing those executives who are engaged in pollution those companies engaged in pollution he added. Ive never walked away from that.	False	False	False	False	True
The Environmental Protection Agency is expected to roll back more regulations on coal fired power plants Thursday. Its a striking move for two big reasons No new coal plants are being built in the US and the EPA itself along with 12 other federal agencies recently put out a sweeping report detailing the need to reduce emissions from fossil fuels because of the grave threat of climate change. Axios reported this week that on Thursday afternoon the agency will announce its intent to loosen Obama era restrictions on how much carbon dioxide new coal power plants can emit. Known as the New Source Performance Standards a provision under the Clean Air Act the rule established in 2015 said coal plants couldnt emit more than 1400 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt hour. This would have likely required new coal plants to install carbon capture technologies to limit some of their emissions. But the coal industry argued in court that these technologies are too expensive and immature to deploy at scale so the new standard is too difficult to meet. The lawsuit against the New Source Performance Standard was suspended once the EPA announced last year that it was looking to revise the rule. According to the New York Times the EPA wants to relax the limit to 1900 pounds of CO2 per MWh. These weaker standards come after an EPA proposal in August to replace another Obama regulation the Clean Power Plan which targets existing power plants. The replacement the Affordable Clean Energy rule would lead to 1400 additional premature deaths each year by 2030 according to EPAs own calculations. Weakening pollution rules for existing and new coal fired power plants is part of the Trump Administrations strategy to resurrect the decrepit US coal industry which has been shrinking and hemorrhaging jobs for decades. But its not regulations that are hurting the US coal industry its competition. Natural gas and renewables are increasingly cheaper than coal. With energy demand projected to stay level that means its coal thats going to yield. However the Trumps policies stand to slow the transition toward cleaner sources of energy at a time when scientists are warning that the world may have as little as 12 years to act to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius since the industrial revolution. Even as nations are gathering in Poland this week to discuss how to implement the Paris climate agreement the US delegation plans to host a panel touting the virtues of fossil fuels the biggest sources of greenhouse gas emissions that drive climate change. The rollbacks an international signal that were not taking carbon capture and sequestration and reducing impacts from coal seriously said Jay Duffy an associate attorney at the Clean Air Task Force. As weve pointed out over and over again the coal industry in the United States has been floundering for years and theres little Trump can do to stop it. In 2018 alone 20 coal fired power plants have closed or are scheduled to shut down. Overall coal power generation capacity has fallen by one third since 2010. And coal consumption is at its lowest level since 1979. Meanwhile coal mining jobs have cratered from a high of more than 800000 in the 1920s to roughly 76000 today. The EPAs latest proposal only affects new coal power plants. The last new coal plant to come online in the US was the 600 megawatt John W. Turk Jr. Power Plant in Arkansas back in 2012. Its actually one of the most high tech most efficient coal power plants in the country. But with a 1.8 billion price tag it was the most expensive project in Arkansas history. Duffy pointed out that the Turk plant emits about 1725 pounds of CO2 per megawatt hour so its already beating the EPAs proposed benchmarks. Its likely that with current technology any hypothetical new coal power plant would have to do almost nothing to cut its greenhouse gas emissions rendering the new regulation meaningless. Its nothing burger he said. Its a no standard standard. Yet coal plants are closing everywhere and no new ones are even on the drawing board. In fact environmental groups cant even sue to block the proposal at this point since there is no plant in the works that could potentially violate the Obama era greenhouse gas limits. No harm no foul. However environmental groups are ready to litigate if the proposal becomes finalized. Where this proposal could make a difference is in extending the lives of existing plants Duffy explained. Theres a quirk in EPA regulations that says that if you modify an existing coal plant enough it can be considered as a new plant. So in theory an aging power plant could get some upgrades that would extend its operating life but would also allow it to be held to the weaker greenhouse gas limit. Taken in tandem with all of the other Trump proposals to boost coal relaxed rules on stream protection coal ash and mercury as well as curbing incentives for clean energy it adds up to a prolonging of the steady demise of coal power in the United States. Correction An earlier version of this story said that environmental groups could not sue to block the EPAs latest New Source Performance Standard rule. Groups can sue once the proposal is finalized as a rule. However they cant sue while the rule is in the proposal stage and there are no power plants seeking to implement the proposal.	False	False	False	True	True
Democratic New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezs claim the world is gonna end in 12 years shouldnt come as a shock to anyone because shes only repeating the same doomsday narrative pushed by some scientists and news outlets for months. In fact Ocasio Cortez followed up her remarks from Monday night with acoupletweetsdoubling down on her 12 year warning but also showing she didnt make it up. The freshman Democrat pointed to a Voxarticlewarning we have just 12 years to limit devastating global warming and a Guardianarticleclaiming we have 12 years to limit climate change catastrophe both articles were based on a United Nations report from October 2018. That U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC report examined what would need to be done in order to limit future global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius by 2100. The report was mandated by the Paris climate accord. The IPCC reported greenhouse gas emissions would need to fall 45 percent below 2010 levels by 2030 and then reach zero by 2050 for a 66 percent chance of keeping projected warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius.RELATED Another Headline Grabbing Ocean Warming Study Is Full Of Factual Errors And Misleading Statements Scientist Says And in the months since that report news has been inundated with headlines warning its worse than we thought or the worlds ice sheets are reaching a tipping point. Themost widely reported climate studyin 2018warned we were on track for a hothouse Earth. Nearly ever natural disaster in 2018 were tied to global warming in some way from Californiasdevastating wildfirestohurricanesFlorence and Michael. All the news stories stressing climate alarm spurred calls for action on global warming. However many experts looking at the IPCCs report saw it asinfeasible to completely overhaul the global ecologyin 12 years and there are serious questions about the accuracy of U.N. climate models. Yet IPCC report authorsframedthis as a problem of political will not economics and technology. The report itself says there is no documented historic precedent for the sweeping changes needed to fight global warming. Thats the line activists and many politicians have taken up in the months since the IPCCs report. Indeed Ocasio Cortez saidglobal warming is her generations World War II. And what preceded World War II? The New Deal. Ocasio Cortez nowwants a Green New Dealto move the U.S. away from fossil fuels and address a variety of injustices she sees in our current economic system. And I think for younger people looking at this are more like how are we saying lets take it easy when 3000 Americans died last year how are we saying lets take it easy when the end person died from our cruel and unjust criminal justice system? Ocasio Cortez said at an event in New York City Monday night. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	False	False	True	True
In its first year in office the Trump administration introduced a solitary new environmental rule aimed at protecting the public from pollution. It was aimed not at sooty power plants or emissions intensive trucks but dentists. Every year dentists fill Americans tooth cavities with an amalgam that includes mercury. About 5 tons of mercury a dangerous toxin that can taint the brain and the nervous system are washed away from dental offices down drains each year. In Trumps first day in the White House the administration told the Environmental Protection Agency EPA to withdraw an Obama era plan that would require dentists to prevent this mercury from getting into waterways. But in June the rule was unexpectedly enacted. This apparent change of heart followed legal action filed by green groups part of a cascade of courtroom standoffs that are starting to slow and even reverse the Trump administrations blitzkrieg of environmental regulations. The Trump administration has been sloppy and careless theyve shown significant disrespect for rule of law and courts have called them on it said Richard Revesz a professor at the New York University school of law. I expect we will see a number of further losses for the administration on similar grounds. If they keep showing the same disregard for the law their attempt to repeal all these environmental regulations will go badly for them. The reversal of Obamas environmental legacy has been spearheaded by Scott Pruitt who heads the EPA the agency he repeatedly sued as Oklahoma attorney general. Pruitt who accused Obama of bending the rule of law and federal overreach has overseen the methodical delay or scrapping of dozens of rules curbing pollution from power plants pesticides and vehicles. Ironically for Pruitt who has touted a back to basics approach rooted safely within the confines of the law this rapidly executed agenda has run into a thicket of legal problems causing the administration to admit defeat in several cases. In July a federal court ruled that the EPA couldnt suspend rules designed to curb methane emissions from new oil and gas wells. This was followed by a hasty retreat in August when the EPA agreed to not delay new standards to reduce smog causing air pollutants the day after 15 states and environment groups sued. Then in December a federal court told the EPA it couldnt delay a new standard for dangerous levels of lead in paint and dust. Other arms of the federal government have also been stymied from implementing Trumps deregulatory agenda. The US Fish and Wildlife Service stung by a lawsuit listed the rusty patched bumblebee as endangered in March after initially delaying the decision. And on Thursday a federal court told the department of energy it must implement four energy efficiency regulations it was looking to scuttle. Many of these legal problems have stemmed from the sheer pace of the rollbacks required public comment periods have been set aside in some cases any rationale for repeal or delay has been missing in others. Opponents of the administration also believe there is a determination to expunge every vestige of Obamas environmental legacy regardless of merit. They are trying to score political points or attempting to grant favours to corporations who dont want to follow the rules said Aaron Colangelo the litigation director of the Natural Resources Defense Council. It all shows that this administration wont protect the environment unless they are sued. They have been reckless and not followed the basic requirements of the law. The EPA now faces a fresh wave of opposition as it looks to craft replacements for major Obama rules such as the clean power plan which sought to limit emissions from coal fired power plants and the waters of the US rule which greatly expanded clean water protections. If the proposed replacements are as expected far less onerous on industry than current iterations environmentalists and around a dozen states headed by New York and California will be poised to further jam up the process in the courts. Over and over again the Trump administration has put the profits of multinational polluters over the health and well being of everyday Americans said Eric Schneiderman New Yorks attorney general. Schneiderman has been prolific in opposing Trumps environmental revisions filing more than 50 lawsuits during the administrations first year to among other things protect the clean power plan enforce stricter vehicle pollution standards and ensure that chlorpyrifos a common pesticide linked to neurological harm to children is banned. Weve already beaten back several of this administrations toxic policies from energy efficiency rollbacks to smog Schneiderman said. Our fight to protect public health and our environment will continue in court.	True	False	False	True	True
This story was originally published byGristand appears here as part of theClimate Deskcollaboration. More than 1000 people crowded into the Showbox a music venue in downtown Seattle on Tuesday afternoon to witness Pete Buttigieg make an appearance in the Emerald City. The presidential candidate was running more than 45 minutes late and was just beginning to lose his audienceIm starting not to love Pete so much someone remarkedwhen he took the stage. The mayor of South Bend Indiana hasrisen swiftly in the pollsand managed tooutraise the rest of the Democratic fieldthis quarter. Buttigieghas credited climate changefor inspiring him to jump into the presidential race. One of the reasons Im running for president is because America is running out of time he said on Tuesday framing the issue as a national security threat If were gonna get real about national security the time has come to treat climate disruption as the threat that it is. But Buttigieg hasnt yet released a climate plan on par with those proposed by some of his rivals including Washington Governor Jay Inslee who aims to mobilize9 trillion to combat the crisisand has based his entire presidential bid on the issue. SenatorElizabeth Warren former Texas RepresentativeBeto ORourke and evenJoe Biden the candidate to beataccording to most polls have proposed sweeping climate plans with trillions of dollars at play. Mayor Pete has released one climate related policy proposal so far aclimate corps similar to AmeriCorpsthat would put thousands of Americans to work on climate resilience and conservation endeavors. We do better when we have a project he said of his proposal at the Seattle event. But where does Buttigieg stand when it comes to implementing an economy wide plan? Buttigiegs answer to a question from the crowd shed light on what his climate plan could look like when or if he releases one. First A carbon tax and dividend. This is not about taking money out of the economy he said. I propose that we rebate that money right back out to the American people and we do it progressively. His pitch sounds like a revenue neutral carbon tax a fee on pollution that gets returned to taxpayers every year instead of going toward a climate resiliency fund or a green project. Well have to wait for his actual plan to figure out what he means when he says he wants to do it progressively. Its an idea that hasfailed at the ballot boxtwice in Washington state but a couple of other candidates including Inslee and Cory Booker have also championed some kind of carbon tax. Next massively increase the amount of federal RD that goes into not just renewable energy but also energy storage and carbon storage he said adding that this investment should be on par with the moon landing or the Manhattan Project. Every candidate with a climate plan so far has vowed to dedicate major resources to green research and development. Buttigieg said he wants toquadruple federal funding for RD. Then rejoin the Paris Agreementsomething thatall the Democrats running for president have said theyll doand host a stateside Pittsburgh Summit for mayors who are championing green policies and targets in their cities. A lot of the answers are coming from the communities he said. Finally Buttigieg emphasized the role rural America can play in mitigating the crisis. Every part of the American spectrum needs to be a part of the solution its not just cities he said. Buttigieg said earlier in the night that science sets the timeline for climate action not politics. But even if he took the White House in 2020 a carbon tax some more federal investment in RD a national service corps and yet another climate summit probably wont put the United States on the path to decarbonizationat the pace that science demands. At any rate it still doesnt have the same meat as the trillions promised and plans proposed by other candidates. Nevertheless some audience members were impressed by Buttigiegs vision of a green America. Nancy Lauterbach a 57 year old real estate agent said Buttigieg is savvy enough to put the RD that is needed into climate change. Ken Miller a 71 year old who owns a construction business liked the mayors authenticity. I thought his point that the timeline is set by science not by politics was compelling Miller said. As well as the fact that we as a country need a project and climate change is as good a one as well ever have.	True	True	True	True	True
He refused to call the rapid warming of the planet a crisis. He repeatedly misrepresented his own agencys findings about a rule to gut an Obama era power plant regulation inflating the emissions cuts the new proposal would mandate. He even mixed up two of the most important climate science reports to come out in the last three months admitting he hadnt fully read the report co authored by researchers at his own agency. It was a brazen if not unexpected stance from the nominee to become the EPAs 15th administrator. Wheeler isnt new to the job Last month he became the longest serving acting chief in the agencys history having taken over in July when former Administrator Scott Pruitt resigned in disgrace amid mounting scandals. In November 2017 when he appeared before the Senate environment and public works committee to interview for the EPAs No. 2 job Wheeler said he believed that man has an impact on the climate but whats not completely understood is what the impact is. In October the United Nations released a landmark determination that the world has until 2030 to halve global emissions or face catastrophic climate change. A month later the federal governments National Climate Assessment a congressionally mandated report issued by 13 agencies including the EPA confirmed the findings and warned of cataclysmic damage to the United States economy and human health and by 9F 5C or more by the end of this century. During Wednesdays hearing Wheeler initially mistook the United Nations report for the National Climate Assessment. Asked about the latter he said he did not review the report before it came out and that he held just one briefing meeting with his career staffers. He said the partial federal government shutdown now its fourth week forced him to delay future briefings. Wheeler dismissed thereportthis month that found U.S. emissions rose 3.4 percent last year blaming the jump on a manufacturing and industrial surge triggered by the Trump administrations deregulatory effort. But he claimed his proposals to dramatically weaken emissions rules for vehicles and power plants the largest and second largest sources of climate pollution respectively would provide reductions in line with the Obama era regulations they aim to replace. When pressed about the need to cut emissions Wheeler returned to a certain statistic over and over again stating that the Affordable Clean Energy rule he proposed in August would deliver carbon dioxide reductions 34 percent below 2005 levels compared to the 33 to 35 percent the Obama administrations Clean Power Plan would have provided. This is a fudged statistic however. The EPAsown analysisshows the so called ACE rule would actually increase CO2 emissions by 20 to 61 million tons nitrous oxide by 14000 to 43000 tons and sulfur dioxide by 29000 to 53000 tons. Those increases are expected to cause up to1400 premature deathsper year by 2030. Wheelers climate denial received some backup at Wednesdays hearing. Sen. James Inhofe R Okla. who once infamously brought a snowball to the Senate floor to debunk climate change submitted rebuttals to climate science reports from right wing think tanks such as the Competitive Enterprise Institute and the Cato Institute both of which are funded by the fossil fuel billionaire Koch brothers. Wheeler blamed the shutdown for the delay in releasing a plan to deal with toxic perfluorinated substances in drinking water. Over the past few years the chemicals known as PFAS and linked to cancer and thyroid disease have been found in water sources across the country. Wheeler however declined to commit to a two year deadline for setting a drinking water standard for PFAS. Republican senators praised Wheelers proposal to replace another Obama era rule that sought to safeguard drinking water for millions of Americans by extending federal protections to 2 million miles of streams and 20 million acres of wetlands. Sen. Dan Sullivan R Alaska even prompted Wheeler with a question about his nearly two decades working for Bob Murray the influential and bombastic baron who runs the nations largest privately owned coal company. Wheeler used his response to note that the last four years of his time working for Murray were spent advocating for miners pensions. Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse D R.I. brought out some visual aids to question Wheeler further about his relationship with Murray including a poster sized printout of a photo leaked from a March 2017 meeting between Murray and Energy Secretary Rick Perry where the coal executive provided a detailed wish list of policies to the administration. That meeting ended as another photo showed with a hug between Perry and Murray. Wheeler is seen sitting beside Murray in the picture.	True	False	False	True	False
CNN The acting director of the federal agency responsible for managing one in every 10 acres of land in the United States has repeatedly denied the existence of climate change and falsely claimed in a 1990s speech there was no credible evidence of a hole in the ozone layer. William Perry Pendley was appointed by Interior Secretary David Bernhardt as the acting director of the Department of Interior's Bureau of Land Management in July 2019. Prior to his appointment Pendley was a conservative activist commentator lawyer and served as the longtime president of the conservative Mountain States Legal Foundation. Despite the total absence of credible scientific evidence the media is convinced and is attempting to convince us that we have global warming an Ozone hole and acid rain and that it is all man's fault Pendley said in a 1992 speech to the Heritage Foundation. In other comments uncovered during a CNN KFile review of his social media activity writings and public appearances Pendley cited an anti Muslim figure to claim Islam was at war with the United States compared undocumented immigrants to cancer and blamed them for diseases. Asked about his comments and if he still holds his views Pendley said his views were being taken out of context and were irrelevant to his role at BLM. As someone in the public arena for nearly four decades I've given countless statements and written scores of articles on a wide variety of topics. Cherrypicking a few of them out of context is neither useful nor connected to my current position. I'm focused now on implementing the policy priorities of the Trump administration and Secretary Bernhardt within the authorities and mission given this agency by Congress. My personal views are irrelevant in this context. 'Environmentalism' is indeed the last refuge of the left the last safe haven for those who trust not the people but big government those who seek to place the power in the hands of federal bureaucrats Pendley said. No wonder the environmental message has became the cause of choice for the elitists of Hollywood. It should not surprise us that they have embraced environmentalism with the same self righteous fervor as they once embraced socialism and communism. Despite the total absence of credible scientific evidence the media is convinced and is attempting to convince us that we have global warming an Ozone hole and acid rain and that it is all man's fault he added. Pendley has repeatedly denied the existence of climate change and mocked the scientific consensus around environmental issues as rooted in bad science. I debated an environmentalist on television here in Denver and and it's he she was quoting people about global warming and I said you realize the people you're quoting just a couple of years ago were predicting global cooling on a massive scale that we would not be able to feed ourselves. And it stopped her for just a second Pendley said. And then she said 'Well it's going to be something.' And that's what the environmentalists say. It's going to be something to quote another movie from the movie The Fly 'Be afraid be very afraid.' And that's what they're preaching. They're preaching fear. At times Pendley's denial of climate change has drifted into even more fringe claims linking the broader US environmental movement to the fall of the Soviet Union and communism. Because of the collapse of communism because the wall has come down because the Soviet Union is no more...the environmental movement is the last refuge of people who favor government over people he said. Who knew? Islam's war with America started just up the road in Greeley Colorado! Pendley tweeted. In the article Spencer floats unfounded conspiracies about leftists allying with Islamic hardliners who adhere to Sharia a system of laws that would have many of them executed. New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and President Barack Obama think if one can call it thinking or anything more than wishful thinkingthat Americans should be afraid of terrorist attacks not from all those who embrace radical Islam but from their countrymen who hold very strong views on important issues of the day? Pendley wrote. Pendley has repeatedly used extreme rhetoric to refer to undocumented immigrants. You see the problems Hazleton or Valley Park faces could be in your community next because illegal immigration is spreading like a cancer Pendley wrote. Partly this is because Mexico and some other governments promote and encourage illegal immigration into our country. Pendley went on to say if massive immigration continued you and I will permanently lose the country we love Frustrated by the failure of the federal government to address the issue of illegal immigration and the problems it poses for the tiny cash strapped city including violent crime crowded schools hospital costs and the demand for servicesthe City Council at the request of Mayor Lou Barletta adopted legislation to deal with these problems. Violent crimeincluding dangerous gangs over crowded schools the appearance of diseases once vanquished from the western world escalating hospital costs and an overwhelming demand for government services! Pendley wrote. These are the new problems being faced by small cash strapped cities and towns all across America. The source illegal immigrants.	False	False	False	True	True
WASHINGTON A Trump administration plan to provide older and disabled citizens greater access to national parks by expandingthe use of electric bikes is revving upcriticism from nature advocates who say the policy threatens to disturb pristine trails and poses a safety hazard. The National Park Service NPS announced the change Friday which would allow battery powered e bikes that can reach speeds of 28 miles per hour on the same park roads and trails that permit traditionalbicycles. The motor may not be used to propel an e bike without the rider also pedaling except in locations open to public motor vehicle traffic under the policy. They make bicycle travel easier and more efficient and they provide an option for people who want to ride a bicycle but might not otherwise do so because of physical fitness age disability or convenience especially at high altitudes or in hilly or strenuous terrain saidNational Park ServiceDeputy Director P. Daniel Smith. The change has drawn criticism by park advocates and some trail enthusiasts who say the administration did not do enough to seek public input on a policy that could damagethe park experience for many. E bikes have a place on national parks roads and motorized trails. But this announcement disregards well established policies for how visitors can enjoyably and safely experience the backcountry in national parks said Kristen Brengel senior vice president at the National Parks Conservation Association. For generations weve agreed that there are some places so special that they should be protected for visitors to enjoy away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life. Said Tyler Ray director of policy and advocacy for theAmerican Hiking Society Permitting e bike use on trails that have been thoughtfully and specifically designated as non motorized raises questions of safety and trail sustainability that must be considered. An e bike is classified asa two or three wheeled cycle with fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts 1 h.p. that provides propulsion assistance. Park Service officials notethe policy is modeled after a number of states that already allow expanded use of electric bikes. Mounting backlog Crumbling national parks Congress looks to hike funds for repairs after years of neglect In making the announcement the NPS touted the environmental effects of the new policy saying the e bikes can reduce greenhouse gas emissionswhen used as an alternative to cars and motorcycles and improve poor air quality at national parks by reducing traffic congestion. Park visitors posting in June before the policy was announced on the independent National Parks Traveler web siteexpressed mixed opinions on the expanded use of the electronic bikes. Someworriedthe low humming devices will add congestion noise and safety risks to normally quiet trails while others saidnational park trails should be more accessible to those who have physical handicaps. National monument Medgar Evers home would become national monument under lands bill sent to Trump Having an electric bike I would love the opportunity to enjoy nature trails specific to e bikes wrote Elizabeth Binnings who describes herselfas a disabled person with limited leg strength. Obviously not all trails are smooth enough but it would enhance my enjoyment of life to get out in nature and isn't that the point of National parks. There are plenty of places in most parks for those who are not 'physically able' to enjoy without getting on an e bike Alice Tharp posted on the blog.What's next? Elevators to Angels Landing at Zion National Park in Utah for those who can't hike it a tram ride at Yosemite National Park in California to get to the top of El Capitan?	False	True	False	False	False
Last week week a routine entry in the searchable database at the website of the South Dakota Department of Environment and Natural Resources indicated that the Dakota Access Pipeline saw an 84 gallon crude oil spill in April. The environmental Left rushed to publicize the incident as an I told you so moment but activists gloating reveals either their cynical dishonesty or their ignorance about how modern pipelines work. The spill occurred in an Energy Transfer Partners facility specifically equipped to catch spills. Moreover the precautions in place to prevent environmental damage worked exactly as they should according to the South Dakota Department of Environment and National Resources. As spills go this spill was contained all product was cleaned up quickly and there were no impacts to the environment Kim Smith a spokesperson for the South Dakota department told me. The containment system and notification system worked as they should. Compare that to the hysterical reaction from leftist activists and their media allies. Writing in the Guardian opinionist Julian Brave NoiseCat said that the leak demonstrates the risk of technological and human failure inherent in crude oil pipelines adding that indigenous communities ranchers and workers are forced to live under the constant threat of petroleum poisoning. Jan Hasselman a lawyer for the Standing Rock Sioux told the Huffington Post They keep telling everybody that it is state of the art that leaks wont happen that nothing can go wrong. Its always been false. They havent even turned the thing on and its shown to be false. And a Clean Technica reporter claimed the incident drives home an essential truth about all the systems mankind has devised to transport oil from place to placeaddingThey all leak. Somewhere somehow the vile stuff gets out and when it does it causes untold damage to the environment. Such biased narratives have bedeviled the Dakota Access Pipeline from the beginning. National media readily adopted opponents preferred rhetoric in articles calling demonstrators the water protectors and repeating their claims that the protests were peaceful and prayerful. In actuality the protests were anything but peaceful as we reported at the time. Local authorities struggled to respond as demonstrators resorted to violence and vandalism. Protestors reportedly threw Molotov cocktails and stones at law enforcement also threatening police and their families and posting their home addresses online. Local ranchers said protestors trespassed on their land and damaged their property. By the time the protests ended hundreds had been arrested. These facts received little coverage the media instead portraying a David and Goliath fight in which virtuous protesters took on a corrupt wealthy industry. And while the Left likes to accuse conservatives of being anti science it hasignored any evidence that doesnt support itsanti pipeline agenda. Comprehensive environmental reviews conducted under the Obama administration showed the risk posed by Keystone XL and the Dakota Access Pipeline to be minimal. But some of the same environmentalists who denounced Trump for moving ahead with the pipelines also rushed to participate in the March for Science. Green activists have also spent the last year publicizing scary statistics about oil pipelines. But just as with the recent Dakota Access Pipeline spill the reality is less convenient for their political preferences. Cutting edge technology such as the containment system installed at the pump station in Tulare S.D. means that its safer than ever to transport oil by pipeline. The Fraser Institute a Canadian free market think tank analyzed U.S. State Department data finding that 70 percent of spills that have occurred in North America were a cubic meter or less hardly the massive leakage environmentalists have implied. Moreover the Fraser Institute found that only 17 percent of spills take place along the pipelines route the rest occurring in facilities such as the Tulare pump station which are specially equipped to safely handle spills and avoid environmental contamination. Overall the number of pipeline incidents in which people or the environment were harmed has dropped by more than 50 percent since 1999 even as the United States saw its energy production skyrocket. The outcome of the Dakota Access Pipeline spill was a technological triumph that should reassure its skeptics. The pipelines opponents are trying to spin it into a cautionary tale. In doing so they reveal their own selective adherence to scientific reason. Jillian Kay Melchior is a fellow at the Independent Womens Forum.	False	False	False	True	True
Congressional Republicans have opened an investigation into a second U.S. based environmental group over its ties to the Chinese government. Top Republicans on the House Natural Resources Committee asked the World Resources Institute WRI an environmental advocacy group to turn over documents related to its work with Chinese officials and their advocacy in the U.S. Lawmakers want to know if WRIs desire to maintain good relations with the Chinese is affecting the groups U.S. operations and advocacy effectively making it a foreign agent of the communist government. WRIs desire to maintain access to Chinese officials may influence its political activities in the United States Republican Reps. Rob Bishop of Utah and Bruce Westermanof Arkansaswrote in a letter to WRI President Andrew Steer sent Wednesday. Given WRIs close ties to the Chinese government its emphasis on cultivating contacts with various U.S. officials is particularly disconcerting in light of the government partnerships and environmental initiatives involving WRI during the Obama Administration they wrote. RELATED NYT Suggests Global Warming Is To Blame For Roger Federers US Open Defeat Since President Trumps election WRI political activities have turned to influencing state and municipal governments the lawmakers wrote. In at least one governors office WRI has embedded a senior environmental adviser and appears to exercise a high level of control of the governments environmental agenda. WRI describes itself as a nonprofit global research organization that operates in more than 60 countries including China. WRI played a role in the Paris Agreement negotiations in 2015 and praised China for its pledge to cut greenhouse gas emissions. Chinas Paris accord pledge however has been criticized by experts who saw it as nothing more than promising to continue current economic trends. WRI opposed President Donald Trumps decision to leave the Paris accord in 2017 in a statement that also praised China for committing to the climate agreement. WRI is the second group Bishop and Westerman investigated for ties to China. Lawmakers asked the Natural Resource Defense Council NRDC for documents related to its Chinese ties in June. NRDC has a two decade relationship with Chinas communist government which it has heaped praise on for its commitment to fighting pollution and global warming. At the same time NRDC has relentlessly attacked the Trump administration Bishop and Westerman said in their letter to the group. Bishop and Westerman said NRDC and WRI activities mirror those laid out in reports on Chinas vast influence machine which it uses to shape its global image including on environmental issues. WRI has operated in China since 2008 and was issued a registration certificate in 2017 to work under the guidance and supervision of the Beijing Public Security Bureau and Chinese Ministry of Ecology and Environment the lawmakers wrote. WRI leadership regularly interacts with senior Chinese government and Communist party officials and provides public support for Chinese environmental programs Bishop and Westerman wrote.While WRI criticizes policies of the U.S. government WRI is silent on Chinese human rights violations such as arrests of environmental protesters and the mass detention of ethnic minorities. On important issues for Chinese leadership WRIs position appears to closely reflect Chinas goals and objectives the two lawmakers added. WRI did not immediately respond to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for comment.	False	False	False	True	False
Former Vice President Al Gore blasted the decision of President Donald Trump to remove the U.S. from the Paris Climate Agreement on Thursday calling it reckless and indefensible. Gore who has made two documentaries advocating climate change action said in a statement Removing the United States from the Paris Agreement is a reckless and indefensible action. It undermines Americas standing in the world and threatens to damage humanitys ability to solve the climate crisis in time. But make no mistake if President Trump wont lead the American people will. Civic leaders mayors governors CEOs investors and the majority of the business community will take up this challenge Gore said. We are in the middle of a clean energy revolution that no single person or group can stop. President Trumps decision is profoundly in conflict with what the majority of Americans want from our president but no matter what he does we will ensure that our inevitable transition to a clean energy economy continues. PARIS AGREEMENT ON CLIMATE CHANGE WASHINGTON REACTS TO US PULLOUT The Paris accord will undermine our economy Trump said during the announcement in the White House Rose Garden. Participating in the deal the president argued puts us at a permanent disadvantage. Its time to exit he said. The Paris Climate Agreement is a pact among nearly 200 nations made to voluntarily cut greenhouse gas emissions in an effort to combat climate change. Under the terms of the deal the U.S. the worlds second largest emitter of carbon would be required to reduce fossil fuel emissions around 30 percent by 2025. Gore and Trump previously met at Trump Tower in New York City in December. Gore called the conversation he had with Trump at the time extremely interesting.	False	False	False	True	True
North Carolina Democratic Gov. Roy Cooper signed an executive order Monday he says is meant to combat climate change and lessen the impact of future natural disasters like hurricanes. Coopers order requires state agencies to encourage people to buy more electric vehicles use more wind and solar energy and cut energy use at state owned buildings. Cooper also asked agencies to promote climate adaptation and green energy use including wind and solar. A strong clean energy economy combats climate change while creating good jobs and a healthy environment said Cooper. With historic storms lashing our state we must combat climate change make our state more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters. The order comes more than one month after Hurricane Florencedumped record amounts of rainfallover the Carolinas after making landfall as a Category 1 storm. Florence dumped 11 trillion gallons of rain over the Carolinas causing devastating floods and taking more than 50 lives. Democrats and environmentalists claimed the storm was made worse by man made global warming. Some scientists said warm waters supercharged Florence and sea level rise made storm surge significantly worse.RELATED Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado However not all scientists agreed. Cato Institute atmospheric scientist Ryan Maue pointed out thatFlorence formed over abnormally cool ocean waters then weakened over cooler waters the opposite of what forecasters expected. There is no reason to suggest that global warming or an ocean heat wave supercharged Hurricane Florence University of Washington climate scientist Cliff Masssaid in September. So the ocean heat wave theory is obviously bogus. The order comes more than one month after Hurricane Florence dumped record amounts of rainfall over the Carolinas after making landfall as a Category 1 storm. Florence dumped 11 trillion gallons of rain over the Carolinas causing devastating floods and taking more than 50 lives. Democrats and environmentalists claimed the storm was made worse by man made global warming. Some scientists said warm waters supercharged Florence and sea level rise made storm surge significantly worse. RELATED Al Gore Wades Into A Bitter Battle Over The Fate Of Fracking In Colorado However not all scientists agreed. Cato Institute atmospheric scientist Ryan Maue pointed out that Florence formed over abnormally cool ocean waters then weakened over cooler waters the opposite of what forecasters expected. There is no reason to suggest that global warming or an ocean heat wave supercharged Hurricane Florence University of Washington climate scientist Cliff Mass said in September. So the ocean heat wave theory is obviously bogus. Mass also said that most of the major impacts of the storm was because it slowed down near the coast causing an extended period of rain. He added theres no credible theory of observational evidence that such slowing down has anything to do with global warming. While scientists predict continued global warming could make future hurricanes more intensethe latest United Nations climate reportfound that many studies showed adecreasing trend in the global number of tropical cyclones andor the globally accumulated cyclonic energy. Cooper however says his executive order will make North Carolina more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters by putting more electric vehicles on the road and cutting emissions. But even if Coopers plan achieves its goal of cutting state greenhouse gas emissions it would have virtually no impact on projected global warming based on climate model simulations. For example the Obama administrations pledge to cut U.S. emissions 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 was only projected toavert 0.001 degrees Celsius of projected global warminga year. If thats the impact on future temperatures cutting emissions for the entire country would have North Carolinas emissions cuts would have an even less significant impact.	True	True	False	True	True
ABC News Videos EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler said the agency unveiled a plan to start considering regulations on cancer causing perfluorinated substances or PFAS. The agency released whatActing EPA AdministratorAndrew Wheelercalled the most comprehensive cross agency plan to address an emerging chemical of concern ever undertaken by EPA. The regulator said it would set a limit for the chemical under the Safe Drinking Water Act by the end of the year. Wheeler said the EPA had already begun the regulatory development process for listing PFOA and PFOS as hazardous substances making it easier to marshal funds to clean up contaminations. He said the plan would include new research methods to monitor pollution. Reports last month said Wheeler widely condemned for his links to big industry would not regulate the chemicals known as perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl compounds sometimes called perfluorinated substances or PFAS at all. But critics say the EPA has gathered more than enough data over the past decade to propose an immediate drinking water standard called a maximum contaminant limit. EPA needs to release strict drinking water standards and not just do a plan or do more research said Judith Enck a former regional EPA administrator who began dealing with a PFAS crisis in upstate New York in 2014. There is enough data to take action. There is not enough urgency by Acting Administrator Wheeler and he is putting the health of millions of Americans at risk. The announcement came as the EPA published its proposal to gut the Waters of the U.S. rule which extended protections to streams and wetlands that feed the drinking water of 117 million Americans. Wheeler whose nomination to be the nations 15th EPA administrator awaits a Senate confirmation vote took heat for refusing to commit to regulating PFAS at a hearing last month. Politico reported in January that the EPA did not plan to limit the chemicals. Asked if it was possible the EPA may eventually fail to set a maximum containment limit or MCL Wheeler said the agency cant predetermine what the outcome will be but has every intention of setting an MCL. The health and environmental effects of PFAS remained virtually ignored by regulators for decades. In the late 1990sa crusading attorneysued E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Co. over a massive contamination in Parkersburg West Virginia that killed livestock and sickened and deformed many residents in the rural Appalachian community that surrounded the chemical companys plant. After a years long legal battle DuPont divested its Chemours division and the companies reached a670 million agreementto settle 3550 personal injury lawsuits in February 2017. Minnesota based chemical giant 3M is now facing mounting lawsuits of its own. Yet the chemicals remain unregulated at the federal level. In January 2009 the EPA issued its first advisory in response to contamination in Alabama stating that perfluorooctanoic acid or PFOA one of the chemicals in the family posed a health risk only in concentrations higher than 400 parts per trillion. For perfluorooctane sulfonate or PFOS a sister chemical commonly used in fire retardants the EPA pegged the limit at 200 parts per trillion. In 2016 the EPA issued a newhealth advisorylowering the risk threshold to 70 parts per trillion for both PFOA and PFOS. That set off a chain reaction exposing local contaminations across the country including several in New York State. Last May the EPA hosted anational leadership summiton PFAS but the agencys decision to bar reporters from attending sessions and one officials manhandling of an Associated Press reporter overshadowed the event. Later that month the White House and EPA moved to suppress an Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry report that found PFAS pose health risks at 70 parts per trillion. A safer limit would be closer to 11 parts per trillion the agency determined.	False	False	False	True	False
A coal fired power plant in central Poland. Global greenhouse gas emissions rose in 2018 and the world is on track for potentially catastrophic climate change in the coming decades. Czarek SokolowskiAP hide caption toggle caption Czarek SokolowskiAP A coal fired power plant in central Poland. Global greenhouse gas emissions rose in 2018 and the world is on track for potentially catastrophic climate change in the coming decades. Czarek SokolowskiAP Leaders from nearly 200 countries are attending a special United Nations Summit on climate change today as they face increasing pressure from citizens around the world to cut global greenhouse gas emissions and slow global warming. Currently global emissions are on track to cause potentially catastrophic climate change in the coming decades. The summit acts as a kickoff to international climate negotiations in 2020 which is the next deadline for countries to make dramatic emissions reduction promises under the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change. I am appealing for leadership from politicians from businesses and scientists and from the public everywhere U.N. Secretary General Antnio Guterres said when he announced the summit. We face a direct existential threat. Climate change is moving faster than we are. Indeed average temperatures on Earth continue to rise driving sea level rise more frequent and severe storms longer heat waves and cold snaps and more extreme rainstorms and droughts. Economic costs associated with such disasters are mounting. Although nearly every nation on the planet including the United States promised to reduce their net greenhouse gas emissions when they signed the Paris Agreement way20170601531048986 so what exactly is in the paris climate accord climate scientists warn that the cumulative pledges are nowhere near sufficient. Humans must limit global warming to about 1.5 degrees Celsius forecast from u n on global climate change above preindustrial temperatures in order to avoid the most catastrophic impacts of climate change. But right now if you take up all the pledges that governments have put forward for the Paris Agreement we're looking at about 3.5 degrees Celsius of warming by 2100 explains Angel Hsu nus.edu.sgaboutfacultyangel hsu an assistant professor of environmental studies at Yale NUS College in Singapore. We're way off Hsu says. What's really worrisome is that we need global emissions to peak by next year by 2020. That's really soon. China and the U.S. are the top greenhouse gas emitters in the world and their cooperation was the crucial foundation for the Paris Agreement. Delegations from both countries will attend today's U.N. summit but their positions have diverged. In the U.S. President Trump has threatened to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and his administration has moved to allow greater emissions from power plants vehicles and oil and gas operations. Despite local climate pledges by dozens of states and hundreds of cities the United States right now is not on track to meet its climate change commitments under the Paris Agreement says Kelly Levin levin a climate analyst at the World Resources Institute think tank. China on the other hand is on track to meet its commitments which hinged on reaching peak emissions no later than 2030. There have been some indications that they could peak their emissions by 2022 Hsu says. That's not so far away. That's about eight years ahead of schedule. And China is now a world leader chinas vision for climate action a new york times and conduit club london event in renewable energy including solar wind and hydropower. It's a glimmer of hope in a sea of otherwise dire news. Even as the government invests in clean technology China is building new coal fired power plants is china placing a global bet on coal outside its borders as part of its Belt and Road Initiative massive belt and road initiative. And even if the country's emissions start declining in the coming years it will likely be too slow to keep global temperatures in check. Nonetheless China is expected to be one of the countries to announce their intention to set more drastic emissions targets at today's summit. India is also expected to announce a plan to update its emissions promises. And some world leaders including the delegation from France are expected to announce that they intend to make drastic emissions cuts in the coming decade. 	True	False	False	True	True
Climate change can't be halted if we carry on degrading the soil a report will say. There's three times more carbon in the soil than in the atmosphere but that carbon's being released by deforestation and poor farming. This is fuelling climate change and compromising our attempts to feed a growing world population the authors will say. Problems include soils being eroded compacted by machinery built over or harmed by over watering. Hurting the soil affects the climate in two ways it compromises the growth of plants taking in carbon from the atmosphere and it releases soil carbon previously stored by worms taking leaf matter underground. The warning will come from the awkwardly named IPBES the Intergovernmental Science Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services a panel studying the benefits of nature to humans. The body which is meeting this week aims to get all the worlds governments singing from the same sheet about the need to protect natural systems. IPBES will formally release its report on Monday 6 May. About 3.2 billion people worldwide are suffering from degraded soils said IPBES chairman Prof Sir Bob Watson. That's almost half of the world population. Theres no question we are degrading soils all over the world. We are losing from the soil the organic carbon and this undermines agricultural productivity and contributes to climate change. We absolutely have to restore the degraded soil weve got. Governments have focused on climate change far more than they have focused on loss of biodiversity or land degradation. All three are equally important to human wellbeing. Soil expert Prof Jane Rickson from Cranfield University UK added The thin layer of soil covering the Earth's surface represents the difference between survival and extinction for most terrestrial life. Only 3 of the planet's surface is suitable for arable production and 75 billion tonnes of fertile soil is lost to land degradation every year. She said soils form at a rate of 1cm in 300 years. There's uncertainty about the exact level of global soil degradation. But the major hotspots are reported to be in South America where forests are being felled sub Saharan Africa India and China. Soil scientists in both the biggest Asian nations are worried that their ability to grow their own food may be compromised. In the US some soils are being restored as forests take over poor quality land previously worked by small farmers but others are still being degraded. The UK is not immune either. Some maize fields in south west England suffer major soil loss with heavy rainfall because growing maize leaves bare soil exposed. Heavy rain is more likely under climate change. Erosion is also a long standing issue in the fertile Fens where on dry windy days peaty soil particles sometimes form a kind of smog called the Fen Blow. Peat has a high carbon content and a recent paper suggests theres far more carbon being lost from peatlands than previously thought. And on the chalky hills of southern England chemical intensive crop farming is said to have caused the loss of over a foot of soil in some places. Soils are incredibly important for our well being said Dr Joanna Clark from Reading University. We all know that crops are grown in soil but soils are important for climate change as well. There's three times more carbon stored in soil than there is in the atmosphere. So imagine if all that carbon was released wed get runaway climate change. So we need to keep the carbon in the soil. The simplest way to protect soils while combating climate change is to let forests grow back. This option is favoured by fans of re wilding. But some farmers believe they can continue to produce food by changing the way they farm to enhance the soil. Brexit could give the UK greater flexibility on how to spend public money on farming enabling much more leeway to reward farmers for capturing carbon in the earth. But there are more than 700 soil types in the UK alone so it wont be simple.	True	False	False	True	True
Last year was the Earth's warmest recorded year the third year in a row to set a new record for global average temperatures. Rising temperatures are likely to increase the intensity and impact of major storms scientists say yet in the wake of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma the Trump administration has resisted talking about climate change at all. Several key administration officials have been on message this week declining to discuss the issue and how to address the causes of global warming and increased greenhouse gas emissions. Mick Mulvaney the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget said climate change is a longer discussion on another day and a big topic for the media. I'll be more than happy to have a longer discussion on another day about climate change man made climate change Mulvaney told CNN's Jake Tapper on The Lead Wednesday. What we are focusing on right now is taking care of the folks who survived this disaster who need our immediate help he said. There's plenty of time later on to have those discussions and I know we will because climate change is clearly a big topic for the media but we will continue to focus our attention on the folks who need it right now. Both FEMA administrator Brock Long and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke avoided explicitly answering in CNN interviews Tuesday whether the government needs to be more focused on climate change because of hurricanes such as Harvey and Irma. Both instead said the focus needs to be on preparedness and resiliency. Regardless of what causes disasters it's our job within the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA to manage the consequences Long told CNN. The only way we become resilient as a nation is we have to create that true culture of preparedness among our citizenry which we do not have and then we also have to look how we move forward when it comes to infrastructure protection. Duke echoed Long's thoughts on the need for resiliency a term frequently used during the administration's storm response. We live in a changing world and as the FEMA administrator said we always have to look at not just the response but the preparedness and the resilience said Duke. And I think it's important that as we come together as a country we look at the changes in our world and make sure that in planning and response that we are adapting properly. Pushed about whether the administration should also be looking at the cause of the storm Duke responded I you know the data I don't know what it particularly indicates. We haven't had a major storm like this in a quite a while. Duke added that she had to talk to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration about whether the storms were an anomaly year or a trend year. Global warming will likely cause tropical cyclones to intensify on average globally and add to a larger potential for destruction according to NOAA Tom Bossert White House adviser on Homeland Security was equally remiss to talk about the likely causes of the two hurricanes at a White House briefing Monday. Causality is something outside of my ability to analyze right now he said. There's a cyclical nature to a lot of these hurricanes. We continue to take seriously the climate change not the cause of it but the things we observe. He added that the White House would have to perform a trend analysis in the future insinuating that hurricane systems are cyclical and not tied to global warming. President Donald Trump who pulled the US out of the Paris climate accords earlier this year has previously called global warming a hoax. When asked whether Trump's personal opinion on climate change has changed at all White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said I don't think that it's changed over the last several weeks adding that she remains unsure whether the President is reconsidering the Paris deal following the hurricanes. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt told CNN in an interview about Hurricane Irma on Thursday that the time to talk about climate change isn't now saying the question was insensitive. Here's the issue Pruitt said. To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced. In addition to the administration's efforts to wipe mention of climate change from the federal agency websites it has proposed cutting EPA funding intended to assist coastal communities in preparing for the impacts of climate change as well as rolled back regulations meant to advise on building against rising sea levels.	True	False	False	True	True
Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortezrecently suggested Miami would disappear ina few years due to climate change. The United Nations is convening a Climate Action Summit next week. And climate activist Greta Thunberg is on Capitol Hill this week telling lawmakers they must actsoon. But while data from NASA and other top research agencies confirms global temperatures are indeed rising a newly compiled retrospective indicates the doomsday rhetoric is perhaps more overheated. NYC SAYS 1.1M STUDENTS CAN ATTEND CLIMATE STRIKE PROTEST WITHOUT PUNISHMENT The conservative leaning Competitive Enterprise Institute has put together a lengthy compilation of apocalyptic predictions dating back decades that did not come to passtimed as Democratic presidential candidates and climate activistsrefocus attention on the issue. The dire predictions often repeated inthe media warned of a variety of impending disasters famine drought an ice age and even disappearing nations if the world failed to act on climate change. An Associated Press headline from 1989 read Rising seas could obliterate nations U.N. officials. The article detailed aU.N. environmental official warning that entire nations would be eliminated if the world failed to reverse warming by 2000. Then there were the fears that the world would experience a never ending cooling trend in the Northern Hemisphere. That claim came from an international team of specialists cited by The New York Times in 1978. Just years prior Time magazine echoed other media outlets in suggesting that another ice age was imminent. Telltale signs are everywhere from the unexpected persistence and thickness of pack ice in the waters around Iceland to the southward migration of a warmth loving creature like the armadillo from the Midwest the magazine warned in 1974. The Guardian similarly warned in 1974 that Space satellites show new Ice Age coming fast. In 1970 The Boston Globe ran the headline Scientist predicts a new ice age by 21st century. The Washington Post for its part published a Columbia University scientist's claim that the world could be as little as 50 or 60 years away from a disastrous new ice age. Some of the more dire predictions came from Paul Ehrlich a biologist who famously urged population control to mitigate the impacts of humans on the environment. Ehrlich in 1969warned that everybody would disappear in a cloud of blue steam in 20 years The New York Times reported. According to The Salt Lake Tribune Ehrlich warning of a disastrous famine urged placing sterilizing agents into staple foods and drinking water. ANDY PUZDER HERE'S WHY DEMS WANT TO GENERATE CLIMATE PANIC AS THEY IGNORE WAYS TO REDUCE CARBON EMISSIONS Those predictions were made around the time former President Richard Nixon created the Environmental Protection Agency. Since then the U.S. has adopted a series of environmental reforms aimedat limiting emissions. Years after those initial predictions media outlets and politicians continue to teem with claims of apocalyptic scenarios resulting from climate change. Earlier this month leading Democratic presidential candidates held a town hall on the issue and warned about the existential threat posed by a changing climate. Before the end of the month 2020 candidates are expected to have another climate forum at Georgetown University. CEI's report came just before the U.N. Climate Action Summit on Sept. 23an event that promises to spark the transformation that is urgently needed and propel action that will benefit everyone. It also came a week after Rep.Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. warned that Miami would be gone in a few years because of climate change. She was responding to critics of her ambitious Green New Deal which seeks to reach net zero emissions within just decades. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Ocasio Cortez whose plan has been endorsed by leading presidential candidates previously joked that the world would end in 12 years if it didn't address climate change. But short term predictions weren't a laughing matter in the years following An Inconvenient Truth a documentary produced by former Vice President Al Gore. In 2008 ABC released an ominous video about what the world would look like in 2015. As the video warned about rising sea levels a graphic showed significant portions of New York City engulfed by water.Gore himself famously predicted in the early 2000s that Arctic ice could be gone within seven years. At the end of seven years Arctic ice had undergone a period ofexpansion though recently it has been melting at a quicker pace.	True	False	False	True	True
The Duke of Sussex has defended his use of private jets saying he occasionally needs to ensure his family is safe. Speaking at the launch of an eco tourism project in Amsterdam Prince Harry added that he balances out the impact this has on the environment. The duke and his wife Meghan have faced criticism after newspapers claimed they flew privately four times in 11 days this summer. Prince Harry said he flew to the event on Tuesday commercially. At the launch of Travalyst aimed at encouraging the tourism industry to become more sustainable the duke was asked about his travel behaviour. I came here by commercial. I spend 99 of my life travelling the world by commercial he said. Occasionally there needs to be an opportunity based on a unique circumstance to ensure that my family are safe it's generally as simple as that. During his opening speech the duke said no one is perfect in terms of his impact on the environment. Questions have been asked about the royal couple's use of private jets and their impact following their support of environmental causes. Prince Harry has previously spoken about the importance of tackling climate change. In September's edition of Vogue edited by Meghan the prince spoke about environmental issues and his love for nature saying We are the one species on this planet that seems to think that this place belongs to us and only us. The Sussexes came under fire over the summer after taking a private flight to the home of singer Sir Elton John in Nice. Sir Elton defended the royal couple saying he provided them with his private plane to maintain a high level of much needed protection. He also said he paid to carbon offset their trip to his French home. Carbon offsetting allows passengers to pay extra to help compensate for the carbon emissions produced from their flights. The money is then invested in environmental projects such as planting trees or installing solar panels which reduce carbon dioxide in the air by the same amount. The duke said that what is important is what we do to balance out negative effects. He went on to say that he has always offset his carbon emissions and will continue to do so. In my mind it's the right thing to do and we need to make it cool he said. We have to connect people to where that little bit of extra money is actually going. Prince Harry has spent three years working on the project alongside five co founders Booking.com Ctrip Skyscanner TripAdvisor and Visa. He hopes it will improve conservation environmental protection and help increase the economic benefits of tourism for local communities. Figures from accounts published in June show the royal household's carbon emissions due to business travel almost doubled last year. The increase was put down to the use of chartered flights for more overseas visits which are planned by the Foreign Office. However emissions savings from greener heating and lighting meant the household's overall carbon footprint stayed around the same as the previous year.	True	False	False	True	False
The move fulfills part of President Donald Trump's promise to help the coal industry but will likely face court challenges from environmental groups and several states who see the rollback as detrimental to clean air and efforts to fight the climate crisis. Former President Barack Obama's plan if implemented would have prevented 3600 premature deaths a year 1700 heart attacks and 90000 asthma attacks according to analysis conducted by the EPA under his tenure. The Obama Clean Power Plan was set to reduce greenhouse gas emissions which contribute to the climate crisis by up to 32 compared to 2005 levels by the same year. We are gathered here today because the American public elected a president with a better approach EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said Wednesday. In an initial announcement about the proposal last summer the Trump EPA labeled Obama's plan as overly prescriptive and burdensome. Instead the administration says the plan rule instead empowers states promotes energy independence and facilitates economic growth and job creation the release stated. RELATED More coal fired power plants have closed under Trump than in Obama's first term Democrats are betting big on big plans for 2020 Obama's Clean Power Plan was challenged by several lawsuits from industry groups and conservative led states. In 2016 the Supreme Court blocked the regulation but some plants had already started to work on reducing pollution. The new plan which EPA is calling the Affordable Clean Energy rule is designed to boost the struggling coal industry but also likely increase carbon emissions nationwide. EPA argues that any comparison to the Obama rule is incongruous because it was never implemented. The Affordable Clean Energy rule ACE gives states the regulatory certainty they need to continue to reduce emissions and provide affordable and reliable energy for all Americans Wheeler said. Unlike the CPP the ACE rule adheres to the four corners of the Clean Air Act. EPA sets the best system of emission reductions and then states set the standards of performance. But it's unclear how much the industry can benefit as it faces competition from cheap natural gas and renewable sources. US coal consumption has plunged 39 to the lowest level in 40 years according to the US Energy Information Administration. RELATED America's renewable energy capacity is now greater than coal New York Attorney General Letitia James said her state and others will go to court. Given its clear violation of the Clean Air Act I intend to sue the EPA over this Dirty Power rule and look forward to collaborating with other states and cities in taking action to protect all Americans from the increasingly disastrous impacts of climate change James said in a statement. Connecticut is in close coordination with states across the nation and we are prepared to take legal action to block this measure the state's attorney general William Tong. There is no serious debate climate change is a severe threat and we ignore science at our own peril. At a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing last week about the direction of the EPA former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy who finalized the Clean Power Plan under Obama said she believes the proposed Affordable Clean Energy rule as well as other proposed rules the agency has made since Trump took office undermines the science and the law in how they're trying to roll back those rules. I do not dispute any administration coming in with different policies but the challenge I think we're facing is they are really changing the rules of the road and not using sound science McCarthy said. They are not looking at cost benefits. They are trying to inflate the cost and lower the benefits in order to justify rules that simply don't make sense under the law. This story is breaking and will be updated.	True	False	False	True	True
Nearly four years later the White House is promoting the same brand of denialism and fealty to the fossil fuel industry at the United Nations climate conference in Poland. But in Washington the snowball metaphor might more accurately describe how a markedly different brand of climate politics is gaining support. By Wednesday the burgeoning effort to establish a select committee in the House of Representatives on a Green New Deal essentially a plan to make a plan picked up its strongest endorsements yet netting support from the co chairs of the 78 member Congressional Progressive Caucus and from the first labor union to back the proposal. At least 35 incoming or sitting House members support the resolution as do four senators. The proposal championed by Rep. elect Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. came as grassroots groups like the Sunrise Movement and Justice Democrats organized protests at the Capitol with young activists occupying Democratic leaders offices and urging lawmakers to pledge their support. Nearly 150 people were arrested Monday in the groups largest demonstration yet. The resolution faced skepticism from the top Democrats on natural resources and energy committees that wield legislative power over the issues a Green New Deal would cover. But proponents tweaked language in the proposal this week to mandate the select committee to lay out a vision for a Green New Deal while maintaining existing committees authority over the lawmaking process. I wouldnt even call it compromises. It was more specificities Pocan said. It was really getting at making it specific and workable. We wanted to make it so it could be an executable idea. The resolution calls for barring lawmakers who have accepted donations from the fossil fuel industry from serving on the select committee. Maintaining legislative power for existing committees with members who might have taken contributions from oil gas and coal donors could pose some risk but would be worth it said Rep.Pramila Jayapal D Wash. the other Progressive Caucus co chair. The harm thats done in taking legislative authority away from the committees is far too great she said. Everyone is ready. There are a lot of champions in the rooms that we need them to be in who will be controlling the agenda. The unusually speedy sausagemaking process inverts decades of Democrats dithering on the rapidly worsening crisis caused by greenhouse gas pollution. That mirrors the Trump administrations aggressive efforts to unwind the few relatively weak climate regulations that exist and to upend fragile negotiations at the 24th Conference of the Parties in Katowice Poland where diplomats this week are struggling to garner support for basic resolutions recognizing the scientific consensus on global warming. The summit follows an October report from the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that found that world governments must halve emissions over the next 12 years to avert warming of 2.3 degrees Fahrenheit above preindustrial levels beyond which climate change is forecast to be cataclysmic. The Trump administration announced plans to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris Climate Accord but that wont legally go into effect until 2020. In the meantime the administration has worked hard to further undercut the talks. The United States teamed up with Russia Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to weaken a resolution to endorse the report something the State Department outright refused to do. The Democratic Party needs an answer for what their plan is to match the U.N.s recommendations in the IPCC report on climate said Waleed Shahid the communications director for Justice Democrats a left wing group that played a leading role in Ocasio Cortezs winning primary campaign. Young people and Alexandria Ocasio Cortez are providing a solution to that dilemma. Thats not the only issue for which the Green New Deal would provide a fix. The Democratic Party has long been dogged by tensions between environmentalists clamoring for action on climate change and labor leaders warning against policies that ostracize the fossil fuel industry which provides high paid construction jobs. In August the Democratic National Committee under pressure from unions backtracked on a two month old resolution to ban donations from oil gas and coal companies.	True	False	False	True	False
Alexandria Ocasio Cortez isn't old enough to run for president. But the freshman congresswoman from New York introduced a Green New Deal resolution on Thursday that is already emerging as a key policy test for 2020 Democratic candidates. Our first step is to define the problem and define the scope of the solution Ocasio Cortez told reporters during a Thursday afternoon press conference for her newly introduced proposal which was quickly backed by Democratic presidential hopefuls Senators Kirsten Gillibrand Kamala Harris Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker. Small incremental policy solutions are not enough. Several contenders vying for the Democatic nomination have expressed support for the underlying principles of the sweeping resolution to combat climate change and activist groups energized by the November midterm election wins have been pressuring candidates to sign on as co sponsors. We are going to be pressuring all the 2020 contenders especially the senators to co sponsor the bill Stephen O'Hanlon a spokesperson for the Sunrise Movement a climate change group that staged a high profile sit in in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office in November which Ocasio Cortez attended told CBS News. It will make clear who is just using it as a buzzword and who is taking it seriously. Progressive activists are extremely supportive of the Green New Deal and think of it as the gold standard plan on climate and expect their presidential candidates to be treating it as such said Chad Bolt associate policy director of Indivisible a grassroots resistance group. Bolt says the environment ranks among the top three issues for its members. The resolution introduced by Ocasio Cortez and Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey a Democrat is broad and light on specifics and seen more as a roadmap for overhauling the economy than a concrete piece of legislation. The resolution includes plans to decarbonize the economy reduce greenhouse gases make sure low income and minority communities benefit create a federal jobs guarantee provide universal health care and make investments in infrastructure. The Green New Deal proposal is named after President Franklin Roosevelt's sweeping New Deal economic and labor reforms during the Great Depression. It's aimed a transforming the American economy by ending its dependence on fossil fuels investing heavily in renewable energy like solar and wind and sparking large scale job creation. Some proposals have set the goal to converting the entire U.S. economy to renewable energy within 12 years and eliminating the carbon footprint by 2030. The lack of specifics could present opportunities and liabilities for presidential candidates. On one hand it becomes a kind of catch all way to talk about the environment jobs and economic fairness issues at the forefront of the party's primary. But on the other it could put candidates in a difficult position when pressed on the costs and impact on certain jobs and industries. The debate over Medicare for All has already shown the kinds of risks and rewards candidates face. Republicans have branded the proposal as a costly fringe policy goal and many centrist Democrats have not backed the initiative. Pelosi referred to it Thursday morning as a suggestion and the green dream. It will be one of several or maybe many suggestions that we receive Pelosi told Politico in an interview. The green dream or whatever they call it nobody knows what it is but they're for it right? Later in the morning Pelosi said she had not seen the proposal. I do know its enthusiastic and I welcome all the enthusiasm that is out there she told reporters during her weekly press conference. Pelosi also named the nine Democratic members of the new Select Committee on the Climate Crisis and notably left Ocasio Cortez off the list. The New York Democrat said Pelosi offered her a spot but she declined it because she wanted to focus on the legislative side of climate policy. Despite some hesitation within the party the Democratic base sees the proposal as a way for its leaders to capitalize on their new power in Washington. In a statement to CBS News on Tuesday Congressman Ral Grijalva Democrat of Arizona confirmed that he will be supporting the resolution after initially being reluctant to back it. The Green New Deal will put the health and well being of our communities first Grijalva said. Its aspirational goals will help our country combat climate change through clean and renewable energy create millions of new jobs in the process and safeguard our environment for generations to come. Most of the Democratic presidential candidates have also broadly endorsed the idea behind the Green New Deal. Oregon Democratic Sen. Jeff Merkley who's mulling a presidential bid said the issue should be an integral part of his party's agenda going forward. On CBSN's Red and Blue Merkley outlined what he believes should be the key components of a comprehensive Green New Deal. The core objectives are some things such as let's drive a fast transition from fossil fuel carbon transmission creating energy sources to renewable energy so that we save our planet. Second principle is let's create tens of millions of jobs as we renovate our energy economy he said Tuesday. A third principle a just transition for fossil fuel workers so that no one is left behind and so we show respect and gratitude for all the work they've done to power economy is the decades past.	True	False	False	True	True
Reuters Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. waves at an enthusiastic crowd of hometown supporters half of whom raised their hands when MSNBC host Chris Hayes a fellow Bronx native asked who was from the borough. On Tuesday four members of the Senates Democratic caucus joined every Republican in voting to block a resolution staking out what should be in future Green New Deal legislation. On Wednesday conservatives leading voice of reason on climate change published a widely shared essay that offered talking points to oppose the Green New Deal without invoking hamburger bans Stalinism or genocide. On Thursday night President Donald Trump smeared the Green New Deal as an extreme 100 trillion government takeover at a rally in Michigan leading the crowd in chants of AOC sucks. As her allies are readying primary challenges against Democrats who refuse to join the Green New Deals 100 co sponsors in Congress Ocasio Cortez said You dont necessarily have to replace everybody. Instead shes betting the increasingly visible and deadly effects of climate change will unite a popular base so vast the market fundamentalists in both parties who oppose the kind of New Deal era big government policies needed to match the scope of the climate crisis will fall in line. For years positions in the debate over mainstream climate policies ranged from hard line denial of climate change on one end to moderate market tweaks on the other. Democrats regularly introduced bills to put a price on carbon dioxide emissions through a cap and trade scheme or a carbon tax. Tax incentives for renewable energy sources like solar and wind enjoyed bipartisan support yet so too did subsidies for oil and gas production. Then in October United Nations scientists forecast average temperatures to increase at least 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit a catastrophic spike likely to cost 54 trillion in damage and countless lives unless world governments took unprecedented measures to halve global emissions over the next decade. A month later a congressionally mandated report by 13 federal agencies confirmed the research. The findings made clear that market fixes alone might have worked in the 1970s when scientists first understood the climate impacts of burning fossil fuels but now its too late. That hasnt helped tamp down opposition from powerful building trades unions that rely on the pipeline and coal train industries for lucrative jobs. Countering the fossil fuel industrys appeal to organized labor is an uphill battle for Green New Deal advocates. Very few renewable energy jobs are unionized and the steady march of right to work laws in red states over the past decade makes it difficult to envision a future in which new industries enjoy the same labor precedents as older ones. Ocasio Cortez said that was one reason the Green New Deal movement could not abandon its class politics to secure support from avowedly pro business conservatives. We cannot allow for the fossil fuel jobs to be better more dignified and higher waged with stronger labor support behind them than new energy jobs she said. What Im tired of is us worrying more about the future of fossil fuels than worry about the future of fossil fuel workers. On Monday Sen. Lamar Alexander R Tenn. cribbed the Green New Deals rhetoric harkening to a World War II level mobilization effort when he proposed a New Manhattan Project for Clean Energy that he said would double federal funding for energy research and implement a five year plan to create new sources of cheap clean energy. That same week Rep. Matt Gaetz R Fla. a loyal Trump ally drafted a nonbinding resolution staking out a Green Real Deal that would acknowledge the threat climate change poses to human health and safety in communities across the United States. We have this idea that left ideas are moving and shaking inside the political atmosphere right now. Thats true. But theyre left in terms of Washington. But in terms of the American people theyre centrist ideas. Heather McGhee senior fellow at the progressive think tank Demos A decade of disputation is followed now by this incredible uptick of Republicans looking around for solutions former Rep. Bob Inglis R S.C. whose support for climate action led to his ouster in a primary challenge in 2010 said at the event where he was the lone Republican. Weve now seen the whites of its eyes. Its here now so its hard to deny.	False	False	False	False	False
This weekend close to 200 million Americans will face temperatures of 90F 32C and higher. Add in humidity and many cities across the East Coast and Midwest will be feeling more like 110F 43C. Heat waves have killed more people on average than any other extreme weather event in the US according to the Centers for Disease Control CDC. Officials define extreme heat as a period of two to three days of high heat and humidity with temperatures above 90F 32C. On the heels of earth's hottest June on record the US National Weather Service NWS estimates over 100 record high minimum temperatures could be set as the heat lingers even past sunset. Here's what that sort of heat can do. Air conditioning is used in 87 of US homes according to a 2018 report by the US Energy Information Administration EIA. During heat waves air conditioning use stresses power grids and can lead to city wide outages. In cities that means millions of units including those on cars and buses and trains constantly pushing out heat into the atmosphere. Studies have found the extra heat from air conditioning can raise temperatures by as much as 2C. And when it gets hotter our thermostats turn lower and the cycle continues. But it goes further than just an ever hotter summer season the emissions from air conditioners and their refrigerants is contributing to climate change. The man made greenhouse gases used in air conditoners called hydrofluorocarbons HFCs are thousands of times more potent than carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. In cities the cycle is also exacerbated by all the concrete asphalt steel and glass creating an urban heat island. When temperatures get too high planes get grounded. Extreme heat reduces air density and the amount of lift a plane can get to take off. Temperatures of 120F 49C saw dozens of flights cancelled in Phoenix during a 2017 heatwave. Smaller planes are affected first but larger Boeing or Airbus jets have maximum operating temperatures around 126F 52C AZ Central reported. In a heat wave concrete and asphalt don't fare well. Asphalt warps and melts. Concrete if water is involved can sometimes explode or break open. This week local media in Kansas has reported several instances of cracked and buckled roads as temperatures rise. In Iowa one city mayor said old concrete roads soaked with floodwaters from this spring are now exploding and damaging sewer lines. The NWS outpost in Omaha Nebraska demonstrated just how hot vehicles can get in heat waves by cooking American biscuits on a dash. The temperatures reached a high of 185F 85C not quite enough for a proper bake but certainly too hot for humans or animals to survive in. According to the National Weather Service 21 young children have died in hot cars this year. Unsurprisingly as everything warms up in a heat wave anything metal gets even hotter. When it comes to power lines this can cause dangerously low sagging. If lines droop low enough to touch the ground or trees they can short out. Kinks can form on train rails when the metal expands. In 2012 a heat kink caused a 32 car long freight train to derail and fly off an overpass a similar derailment happened in 2017. Experts told Fox 26 News more than 2100 trains have been derailed in the last 40 years because of these heat warps. Metal components in draw bridges can expand and become inoperable last year Chicago firefighters had to hose down a downtown draw bridge so it could be used. Crops can also feel the heat. Farmers across the Midwest are warning that vegetables can wilt in the heat and farms will lose productivity worsening the situation after a historic flooding season this spring. Soybean farmers also say the dry conditions could cause an increase in spider mites and other plant diseases. Extreme heat makes pollution worse which can be dangerous for the very young the elderly and anyone with respiratory diseases. In the nation's capital where the mayor has declared a heat emergency officials warned that air quality would reach unhealthy levels for these sensitive groups over the weekend.	False	False	False	True	True
Watch CNN's live town hall on the climate crisis featuring 10 Democratic presidential candidates tonight beginning at 5 p.m. ET. CNN Candidates for the Democratic presidential nomination and most scientists say the climate crisis is the existential threat of our time while President Donald Trump once claimed it's a hoax cooked up by the Chinese. Trump also said at last month's G7 meeting that I'm an environmentalist citing his experience filing environmental impact statements as a businessperson though he skipped an actual session about climate change that his fellow world leaders attended. That pretty much sums up the difference between how a Democrat would treat climate change compared with Trump as an emergency as opposed to as a joke. That in itself would be an enormous switch. This is a worldwide issue and solving it will take cooperation from countries like China and India. In addition the most important actions the US could take would require congressional approval no easy task when the Senate floor is controlled by a Republican who represents coal country. But presidents actually have quite a bit of power to change US climate policy on their own without waiting for Congress. A first set of steps would be to roll back numerous Trump actions that either sidelined US leadership on the climate or rescinded new standards that had been implemented during the Obama administration. CNN gathered input from advocacy groups former government officials and academics. Here are some things any president could do on Day One in office climate agreement was Promising to withdraw the US from the landmark 2015climate agreement was Trump's benchmark action rebutting the responsibility to act on climate change . He said without much evidence that it was a demeaning failure for American workers who would be expected to do more than those in other countries. The result is the US is one of just a few countries not taking part in the effort in which nations committed to varying amounts of carbon reduction. Every candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination has said they would bring the US back in. The US was supposed to reduce carbon emissions by 26 from 2005 levels by 2025 under the agreement. It probably won't get there with the willful sabotage of the Trump administration. But with certain states cities and companies trying to fill the void the US could get most of the way there according to groups like America's Pledge the coalition pushed by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and former California Gov. Jerry Brown. Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont was the first presidential candidate to argue that Trump instead of declaring a national emergency at the border should do it on the climate instead. Others like Tom Steyer have followed suit. This would certainly focus national attention and could free up some funds without congressional approval. The President could easily declare a goal of 100 decarbonization by a given year say 2050 and direct his or her Cabinet secretaries to do everything in their power to meet it. At the request of automakers the Trump administration worked to roll back fuel economy standards for cars and trucks. A different President could push things again in the other direction. 5. Set a zero emission deadline for the US The Clean Power Plan was an Obama era regulatory scheme that required states to meet specific carbon emission reduction standards based on their individual energy consumption. The plan includes an incentive program for states to get a head start on meeting standards on early deployment of renewable energy and low income energy efficiency. 8. Reverse Trump's plan to speed up oil and gas pipelines Workers in the Bureau of Land Management worked through the partial government shutdown early this year to approve more and more applications for oil and natural gas drilling on public lands. A new administration could move in the opposite direction. 13. Use the SEC to scrutinize banks and investors for climate risks Most attention for climate change goes to the energy sector but banks and investors have an important role too. The Securities and Exchange Commission asks companies what risks climate change and new climate change regulations pose to their investments. 14. Tap into growing public sentiment and work with corporations States and cities are addressing climate change be it with zero emission vehicle goals or the regional cooperative of states in the Northeast that is trying to cap and reduce carbon emissions on its own. Corporate America is also moving on its own. It's setting up coalitions of companies and lobbying Congress for new action on climate change. As it stands right now the federal government is not even a part of that conversation. Pretty much everyone who agrees that climate change is a problem agrees that Congress will ultimately have to address it in a big way. That means placing some kind of price on carbon. The House voted to do this in 2010 but the so called cap and trade proposal didn't get a vote in the Senate and then Democrats lost control of the House for eight years.	True	False	False	True	True
The Amazon rainforest is on fire and the consensus is that Brazils far right populist leader Jair Bolsonaro is to blame. Bolsonaro who took office in January and has been referred to as Captain Chainsaw gutted funding for agencies protecting the massive rainforest essentially giving wink and nudge approval for illegal loggers to do their thing. Fire is used as a tool for clearing Amazon land for ranching and the more trees are cut down the more vulnerable the rainforest is to wildfires. There have been almost twice as many fires detected in 2019 so far as there were in the entirety of 2018. Its hard to overstate how threatening this policy is to the climate. The Amazon is the worlds largest rainforest its trees scrub the Earth of a significant amount of CO2 and have captured a huge amount of carbon and methane within their branches and roots. If you lose the trees a lot of greenhouse gases get released and it becomes harder to capture emissions from other sources. Continued fires and clear cutting in the Amazon could cripple the fight against climate change. All of this goes to underscore an important and poorly understood point The wave of right wing populism sweeping the world is not only dangerous for the countries who succumb to it or even to immigrants wishing to move to those nations. Its a fundamental threat to progress against climate change and thus the entirety of the human race. Bolsonaro has been dubbed the Trump of the Tropics a far right firebrand who shares the American presidents hostility to democracy and penchant for saying extremely offensive things about women and minorities. The similarities clearly extend to climate policy Trump famously labeled climate change a Chinese hoax pulled out of the Paris agreement on climate change and recently presented a carbon regulation plan that could actually increase emissions. The American and Brazilian leaders are particularly aggressive on the issue but theyre hardly alone among Western right wingers. A February report from the German Adelphi Institute an environmental think tank found that 18 out of the 21 largest European far right parties are either generally indifferent to climate action or outright oppose it. Nigel Farage the leader of Britains Brexit party recently called climate change a scam during an interview with conspiracy theorist Alex Jones. Germanys Alternatives for Deutschland AfD claims in its most recent electoral platform that CO2 is not a pollutant but an indispensable component of all life. By contrast the centrist and left parties in these countries were prior to the populist wave of the past few years doing a markedly better job on addressing climate change not perfect or sufficient mind you but comparatively much better than what the far right parties want. Between 2003 2011 a left wing Brazilian government managed to cut Amazon deforestation rates by 80 percent. Obama massively boosted the American renewables industry via the 2009 stimulus helped negotiate the Paris Climate Accord and implemented the Clean Power Plan to cut emissions from US power plants. In 2005 the EU put in place the worlds first major emissions permit and trading system the European Union Emissions Trading System or EU ETS. So theres a clear contrast between the right wing populists on the one hand and their leading opponents on the other. Right wing populism today centers on a particular kind of chauvinistic nationalism an America First style obsession with the importance of their typically ethnically defined home nation and its independence from international institutions. European populists hate the European Union with its open borders approach to immigration and transnational economic regulations both Trump and Bolsonaro have insulted international institutions and withdrawn from global agreements. This brand of populism poses a particular challenge for the effort against climate change. Its a global issue that no one country can solve on its own it requires collective action negotiated through some forum like the Paris Climate Agreement. Its a paradigmatic example of the limits of nationalism and the need for organizations like the UN and EU. You cant propose an effective solution to a transnational problem through a narrowly nationalist framework and yet the nationalists are here attacking both climate policies in their own country and the very idea of global governance itself. This is a crucial time a recent UN report claims we have 11 years to prevent irreversible damage from climate change. Large population centers like the United States Brazil and the EU as a bloc are responsible for a major chunk of emissions. Its especially important that wealthy countries take the lead on the issue. Poorer countries are less likely to act when they think theyre unfairly bearing the burden of a problem kickstarted by Western industrial development. Backsliding in the US and Europe hurts climate action everywhere. Right wing populists are often framed as a threat to Western democracy and they certainly are that. But the stakes are even bigger than they appear at first glance Its not just the survival of Western democracy thats at stake but the planet itself.	True	False	False	True	True
President Donald Trump has been a climate change denier for years alleging that global warming is a Chinese invention and declaring that cold winter days prove that it's a hoax. Perhaps not surprisingly his staff seems to share these views. According to Politico Deputy National Security Advisor K.T. McFarland recently tried to get Trump riled up about climate change with a bit of fake news. McFarland reportedly slipped Trump two Time magazine cover stories. One was supposedly from the 1970s and warned about a coming ice age. The other from 2007 discussed how to survive global warming. But there was one glaring problem The 1970s cover was a hoax. In 2007 Time published a cover story titled The Global Warming Survival Guide. Sometime after that internet hoaxers doctored the cover to instead say How to Survive the Coming Ice Age and alleged that it was a 1977 cover. The hoax spread quickly and climate deniers used it to argue that in the 1970s scientists were actually worried about global coolingand since it didn't happen then the public shouldn't believe warnings about global warming now. The hoax seems to have had its intended effect on Trump who according to Politico quickly got lathered up about the media's hypocrisy. A White House official defended McFarland in an interview with Politico calling the Time hoax fake but accurate. The White House didn't respond to a request for comment from Mother Jones. While the Time global cooling cover story never existed it's certainly true that some media outlets including Time ran stories in the 70s warning about global cooling. One published by Newsweek is a favorite of climate deniers. Scientific American explained Newsweek's global cooling story in 2014 But global cooling was never a popular theory among scientists. Even as some news outlets were writing about it notes Scientific American a counter theory about a warming planet was already on the rise. In fact a survey of peer reviewed scientific papers from 1969 to 1975 shows that the majority of scientists predicted that carbon dioxide levels would rise causing temperatures to rise as well. Scientists have since reached an overwhelming consensus The planet is getting warmer and humans are to blame. But this hasn't stopped climate deniers from citing the old stories as evidence that contemporary news reports about climate change shouldn't be believed. This climate denier for example	True	False	False	True	False
President Donald Trump has called climate change a hoax and a very expensive tax on American businesses that make the US less competitive. He has threatened to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord in which countries around the world pledged to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to keep temperatures from rising past the critical 2C mark. And yet climate change is already imperiling Mar a Lago the crown jewel of Trumps extensive real estate portfolio and his preferred location for carrying out many of his official presidential duties. Rising sea levels are causing more frequent and more damaging tidal floods on the Florida coast and projections suggest that the risk to lives and property from climate change related flooding events is only going to increase dramatically in the coming years. The National and Oceanic Atmospheric Administration NOAA has put out a variety of different estimates of rising sea levels in Southern Florida. The more conservative finding suggests that they could jump anywhere from 3 feet by 2050 to 7 feet by 2100. But in January the agency put out new extreme sea level projections its doomsday scenario in other words. In this scenario wed see a 10 to 12 foot rise in sea level in the US by 2100 which would have dramatic consequences for places like Mar a Lago as you can see in the photo above. So what would a 10 foot rise in sea levels mean for Florida? Heres a satellite image of what that would look like. Large swaths of the state are submerged. Miami is entirely flooded along with the rest of Southern Florida There is evidence that average sea levels are already steadily rising in Southern Florida. A 2016 paper found that in the past decade the average rate of sea level rise had tripled from 3 millimeters a year to 9 millimeters. And overall sea levels in Southern Florida had risen about 90 millimeters or 3.5 inches since 2006. Of the 30 most populous US cities that would be negatively affected by extreme sea level rise Climate Central a nonprofit climate science research group found that 19 were located in Florida circled in yellow in the chart below. Scientists dont have a great understanding of how exactly rapidly sea levels will continue to rise or the precise impact on specific areas. But new research that indicates parts of the Antarctic ice sheet may collapse in the next 100 years and that has scientists scrambling to model more extreme scenarios. If the Antarctic ice sheet does melt it could trigger a catastrophic 10 foot spike in sea levels and inundate major US cities like New York and Miami displacing nearly 150 million people worldwide. It may be a lot less stable in Antarctica than we thought said Ben Strauss a vice president at Climate Central. But the truth is we are relatively early in our scientific understanding of how the great ice sheets will respond to warming. Last summer the Guardian investigated Trumps coastal properties to see how at risk each of them were to flooding from rising sea levels. What they found was Mar a Lago was already in serious trouble. The estate was at high risk for flooding during heavy rains and storms with water already pooling on the premises in addition to nearby bridges and roads in Palm Beach. Plus in the next 30 years they estimated there will be 210 days a year where Mar a Lago will be flooded with at least a foot of water. Keren Bolter chief scientist for Coastal Risk Consulting and the firm that analyzed Trumps properties told the Guardian that tidal flooding in the next 30 years could partially submerge some of the clubs luxurious cottages and bungalows. And perhaps even eventually render Trumps Southern White House uninhabitable.	True	False	False	True	False
Julin Castro the first 2020 Democratic presidential candidate at the CNN climate town hall set the tone early in the night by giving a shout out to Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington the self professed climate candidate whose six part plan has been adopted by several other candidates since he dropped out of the race last month. Calling climate change an existential threat a phrase that is sure to come up several more times tonight Mr. Castro said his first move as president would be to rejoin the Paris Climate Accord. The United States hasnt actually withdrawn from the global climate change agreement and legally cannot until November 2020 but President Trump has vowed to do so. Still Mr. Castro said its actually what comes next that is most important saying he would impose a fee on carbon pollution enact an executive order prohibiting fossil fuel exploration and development on public lands and spend 10 trillion over 10 years to reach net zero emissions by 2045. The former secretary for Housing and Urban Development and mayor of San Antonio drew on his experience working with families who had lost their homes to flooding and called for subsidizing the National Flood Insurance Program. An activist from the Sunrise Movement a liberal environmental group asked Mr. Castro why he should be trusted to move the country away from fossil fuels when he supported fracking. Shes right. When I was mayor of San Antonio I did believe that there were opportunities to be had with fracking that was going on in South Texas. But he said at the time natural gas was described as a bridge fuel to help wean the country off coal and toward cleaner fuels. Were coming to the end of the bridge Mr. Castro said. He said while he isnt calling for an immediate national ban on fracking he supports local communities that do so and called for moving to cleaner sources. Mr. Castro won some of his strongest applause when he leaned into his rsum as the nations housing chief and connected his work with the need to protect low income communities from environmental damages. He recounted discovering that 70 percent of subsidized housing was within a mile of a superfund site saying Thats the environmental injustice of racism that were dealing with.	True	False	False	False	True
European Commission President Jean Claude Juncker said President Trump doesnt seem to understand that he cant immediately yank the United States out of the Paris Agreement on climate change. Thats not how it works. The Americans cant just leave the climate protection agreement Juncker said Wednesday according to a translation from NBC News. Mr. Trump believes that because he doesnt get close enough to the dossiers to fully understand them. Reports circulated Wednesday that Trump had decided to withdraw from the international pact which has been signed by every country in the world except Nicaragua and Syria but as of late afternoon there was no formal announcement. Juncker the former prime minister of Luxembourg has been leading the European Commission the civil service of the European Unions executive branch in Brussels since November 2014. During a student conference on Europes future he explained that the United States would have to wait three to four years after the agreement took effect in November 2016 before leaving. Juncker and European Council President Donald Tusk represented the European Union at last weeks Group of Seven G7 summit in Taormina a small town in Sicily. They met with leaders from the seven democracies with the worlds most developed economies Canada France Germany Italy Japan the United Kingdom and the United States. Amid talk of combating terrorism and the global economy they also discussed international efforts to fight climate change. These conversations come at a particularly fraught time because Trump who does not share his predecessor Barack Obamas commitment to clean energy has been reviewing the United States environmental policies. According to a translation from NBC News Juncker said that they attempted to explain to Trump that he could not simply pull the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement because the treaty contains safeguards to prevent exactly that. So this notion I am Trump I am American America first and Im going to get out of it that wont happen he continued. We tried to explain that to Mr. Trump in Taormina in clear German sentences. It seems our attempt failed. He said that the law is the law and it must be obeyed regardless of what Trump thinks adding somewhat sardonically that not everything in international agreements is fake news. On Wednesday morning Axios published a report citing two sources with direct knowledge of the decision that Trump was planning to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement. Shortly after the news spread Trump tweeted that he would be announcing his decision regarding the international agreement within the next few days. Later Wednesday during a meeting with Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc of Vietnam at the White House Trump dodged a question about whether he still thinks that climate change is a hoax. When asked if he was leaning in a direction concerning Paris Trump simply said Im hearing from a lot of people both ways. Many scientific organizations have released statements or reports affirming that anthropogenic climate change is real and that it could have devastating effects if actions are not taken to limit carbon dioxide emissions. The American Meteorological Society released a statement that read in part It is clear from extensive scientific evidence that the dominant cause of the rapid change in climate of the past half century is human induced increases in the amount of atmospheric greenhouse gases including carbon dioxide CO chlorofluorocarbons methane and nitrous oxide. Dan Bodansky a law professor at Arizona State University and a leading climate change expert explained that Trump could get the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement two different ways withdrawing from the Paris Agreement itself or leaving the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC. The text of Paris Agreement allows for countries to provide a years notice of its intent to withdraw. But this notice cannot be submitted until three years after the agreement entered into force for that country which happened in November 2016. Whether the U.S. decides to pull out or not under international law and the Paris Agreement the withdrawal would not be effective until 2020 Bodansky told Yahoo News. Another option which would get the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement in just one year would be to leave UNFCCC which was an agreement brokered under former President George H.W. Bush in the early 90s. Although this would be faster it would carry even more serious consequences. Bodansky said that leaving the UNFCCC would automatically get the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement as well. If we pulled out of both then we wouldnt be a party at all. We wouldnt participate in meetings and wed just be there as an observer he said. Both of them would be viewed very negatively by other countries by allies in Europe and elsewhere but pulling out of the Framework Convention would be an even more drastic step. Trump goes after negative press covfefe in botched midnight tweet Duck! Treasury will hit debt limit soon unless Congress votes to raise it	True	False	False	True	True
Thousands gathered in cities across the globe including London Berlin Tokyo and Washington DC to protest anthropogenic climate change and the purported lack of urgency to address it. However there was a remarkable lack of participation from individuals in China the planets worst greenhouse gas emitter minus a protest in Hong Kong. According to the Guardian No protests were authorized in China. However the China Youth Climate Action NetworksZheng Xiaowen said that Chinese youth have their own methods. We also pay attention to the climate and we are also thinking deeply interacting taking action and so many people are very conscientious on this issue she added. Several climate change activists in D.C. decried the U.S. for its role in contributing to climate change despite the fact that the U.S. has made great strides in reducing its carbon output seeing the largest decline in CO2 emissions in the world for 9th time this century in 2017. The largest increase that year came from China. According to a report released by theEnvironmental Protection Agency EPA last year the U.S. reduced its greenhouse gas output by 2.7 percent during President Trumps first year in office. Thanks to President Trumps regulatory reform agenda the economy is booming energy production is surging and we are reducing greenhouse gas emissions from major industrial sources EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler said at the time. These achievements flow largely from technological breakthroughs in the private sector not the heavy hand of government. The Trump Administration has proven that federal regulations are not necessary to drive CO2 reductions Wheeler continued. While many around the world are talking about reducing greenhouse gases the U.S. continues to deliver and todays report is further evidence of our action oriented approach he added. Rep. Adam Kinzinger R IL reiterated that point to Greta Thunberg and the other climate kids who testified before theHouse Committee on Foreign Affairs andSelect Committee on the Climate Crisis on Wednesday. Meanwhile as the West looks at options to combat climate change we all know that Chinas global emissions continue to rise. For every ton of carbon dioxide reduced by the United States China adds nearly four times as much Kinzinger said. Today the Chinese account for 30 percent of global emissions. While some may say that the United States needs to be the leader of combating climate change I would say that we already are he continued. Since 2005 global emissions have increased by 20 percent but the United States emissions have decreased by more than the next 12 emission reducing countries combined he added. As Breitbart News reported China is ramping up its coal powered energy supply with the total of future projects now standing at 226.2 gigawatts GW Despite Chinas blatant disregard for the calls of climate change alarmists it has been granted permission to speak at the U.N. international climate summit next week in New York.	True	False	False	True	False
Yahoo News reported Saturday that temperatures in Great Britain could reach as low as 14C with snow event after snow event expected to hit various parts of the territory. Forecasters expect the lasting cold spell to begin sometime this month and to continue at least through March. October is now looking like it will turn out to be colder than average with more of a chance of something wintery setting in through the second half of the month according to Exacta Weather forecaster James Madden. There is a strong chance of widespread frosts and the chance of snowfall which will set the scene for November Madden said. This will pave the way for what is shaping up to be a colder than average winter with some extreme cold weather events. Snow events have been few and far between in recent years but this winter is looking favourable to bring snow event after snow event as weather systems from the Atlantic clash with cold stagnated air over the UK he said. Current sea temperatures combined with a weather system over the north Atlantic suggest that a freezing vortex of Arctic air could hit the country later this month Yahoos Victoria Bell reported. The system will presumably descend from the North Pole ushering in a swath of low pressure spanning from Greenland to the northwest coast of Ireland. In the estimation of some meteorologists the 2019 2020 cold spell will rival the bitter winter of 1963 believed to have been the coldest in 200 years. Other weather watchers are less confident that this winter will be a record breaker. Mark Saunders for example Professor of Climate Prediction at UCL claims that there is only a 57 percent probability that this winter will be colder than last years. Late last month a group of over 500 scientists and climate professionals sent a European Climate Declaration to the Secretary General of the United Nations appealing for an open debate on climate change. Climate science should be less political while climate policies should be more scientific the declaration stated. Scientists should openly address the uncertainties and exaggerations in their predictions of global warming while politicians should dispassionately count the real benefits as well as the imagined costs of adaptation to global warming and the real costs as well as the imagined benefits of mitigation. There is no statistical evidence that global warming is intensifying hurricanes floods droughts and suchlike natural disasters or making them more frequent they continued. The declarations signers insisted that public policy must respect scientific and economic realities and not just reflect the most fashionable trend of the day. There is no climate emergency. Therefore there is no cause for panic and alarm they noted. We strongly oppose the harmful and unrealistic net zero CO2 policy proposed for 2050. No matter what the winter shapes up to be there is a 100 percent probability that climate alarmists will find some way to attribute the weather to global warming and carbon dioxide emissions.	True	True	True	True	True
While speaking in Kentucky at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Pruitt said he will sign the proposed rule repealing Obama's plan Tuesday. When you think about what that rule meant it was about picking winners and losers. Regulatory power should not be used by any regulatory body to pick winners and losers he said at the event. The past administration was using every bit of power and authority to use the EPA to pick winners and losers and how we generate electricity in this country. That's wrong. Under the interpretation proposed in this notice the CPP exceeds the EPA's statutory authority and would be repealed the proposal reads. The EPA welcomes comment on the legal interpretation addressed in this proposed rulemaking. The proposal also says the EPA has yet to determine whether it will create an additional rule on the regulation of greenhouse gases. first reported on the repeal proposal. first reported on the repeal proposal. Bloomberg News first reported on the repeal proposal. The Clean Power Plan requires states to meet specific carbon emission reduction standards based on their individual energy consumption. The plan also includes an incentive program for states to get a head start on meeting standards on early deployment of renewable energy and low income energy efficiency. Under President Barack Obama the EPA estimated the Clean Power Plan could prevent 2700 to 6600 premature deaths and 140000 to 150000 asthma attacks in children. When asked earlier this year on Fox News about the health consequences of doing away with the Clean Power Plan Pruitt ducked the question and focused on how the plan would cost jobs. He argued the plan was bureaucratic overreach. As much as we want to see progress made with clean air and clean water with an understanding that we can also grow jobs we have to do so within the framework of what Congress has passed Pruitt said. Former EPA employees have reacted harshly to the planned repeal of the rule. Obama's EPA administrator Gina McCarthy called the proposal just plain backwards. A proposal to repeal the Clean Power Plan without any time line or even a commitment to propose a rule to reduce carbon pollution isn't a step forward it's a wholesale retreat from EPA's legal scientific and moral obligation to address the threats of climate change McCarthy said in a statement Friday. Environmental advocacy groups quickly blasted Pruitt's decision with many vowing to fight the measure in court. Now the public has an opportunity to weigh in as EPA is required to accept public comment on the proposed repeal and a discussion paper on a replacement Rhea Suh president of the Natural Resources Defense Council said in a statement Monday. In addition NRDC expects to take EPA to court when the Clean Power Plan repeal is made final. When reports of the EPA's planned move began to be reported over the weekend Environmental Defense Fund President Fred Krupp said repealing the plan without replacing it with any protections from climate destabilizing pollution would fail to protect Americans from harmful pollution designated under the Clean Air Act. And Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club said Trump and Pruitt are launching one of the most egregious attacks on public health and climate safety. No matter who is in the White House the EPA is legally required to limit dangerous carbon pollution and the Clean Power Plan is an achievable affordable way to do that Brune said in a Monday news release. It is a key element in continuing the progress moving toward clean energy and retiring coal. Former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg whose philanthropy said it would donate 15 million toward supporting operations of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change after the Trump administration announced intentions to withdraw from the Paris climate accord tweeted his criticism of the repeal proposal Monday. The EPA can repeal the Clean Power Plan but not the laws of economics Bloomberg tweeted. This won't revive coal or stop the US from reaching our Paris goal.	True	False	False	True	False
New Yorks democratic socialist sweetheart Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez is trying very hard to sell her idea of apocalyptic climate change or at least the side of Ocasio Cortez thats serious about climate change ending the world in 12 years is. The other side of her thinks were foolish for believing her claim that climate change will destroy the world in 12 years. She can be very confusing. It seems however that shes very confused herself specifically about how weather works. Recently Washington D.C. suffered from tornado friendly weather pushing AOC into believing that this natural disaster is simply part of the climate change disaster sweeping the globe. She also seemed disturbed at the appearance of casual tornadoes though were not exactly sure what those are and AOC did not elaborate. The climate crisis is real yall Ocasio said on Instagram. Guess were at casual tornadoes in growing regions of the country? The odd proclamation prompted meteorologist Ryan Maue to step in and offer the young Democrat a lesson in what weather is. I thought this was fake but its from Ocasio Cortezs Instagram story tweeted Maue. No idea what she means with casual tornadoes and how this line of severe thunderstorms is proof of any climate crisis he continued. Its just the weather in D.C. In a second tweet Maue pointed out that AOC doesnt seem to know the difference between weather and climate and offered her an easy analogy so that she understood for the future. Weather is what outfit you wear heading out the door tweeted Maue. Climate is your closet wardrobe. Last year climatologistJudith Curry noted that many of the world ending weather scenarios and predictions from politicians like AOC are as good as fantasy novels and told the Daily Caller that its actually impossible to predict what the climate will look like over a decade out. Projections of extreme alarming impacts are very weakly justified to borderline impossible Curry told The Daily Caller News Foundation. Currys latestresearch put together for clients of her consulting company near the end of November looks in detail at projections of sea level rise. Currys ultimate conclusion Some of the worst case scenarios strain credulity. With regards to 21st century climate projections we are dealing with deep uncertainty and we should not be basing our policies based on the assumption that the climate will actually evolve as per predicted Curry told TheDCNF. Climate variability and change is a lot more complex than CO2 as control knob Curry said. No one wants to hear this or actually spend time understanding things Curry said. Of course a lot of this alarmism from Ocasio Cortez is a weak attempt to sell her Green New Deal which already failed to pass through Congress with any yes votes. The point of the Green New Deal isnt necessarily to save the world but to push socialistic standards for America in everything from how we travel to how we farm. However everyone from economists to climate scientists to Democrat politicians have called the Green New Deal a foolish venture and after having reviewed it personally I can say its a piece of legislation thats really only good enough for kindling.	True	True	False	True	False
The idea started to gain traction after a fisherman spoke to Warren at the town hall event expressing concern the Green New Deal does not go far enough to address problems associated with the oceans. My oyster farm was destroyed by two hurricanes. Now warming waters and acidification are killing seed coast to coast and reducing yields. Those of us that work on the water we need climate solutions and we need them now the man said. The trouble is is the Green New Deal only mentions our oceans one time. This is despite the fact that our seas soak up more than 25 percent of the worlds carbon. So whats your plan for a Blue New Deal for those of us working on the oceans? he asked. Warren immediately embraced the idea of a Blue New Deal. I think hes got it exactly right. We need a Blue New Deal as well she continued telling the audience about her conversations with commercial fishermen who say the warming waters are making their jobs more difficult. I talk to folks who fish commercially off our shores down by New Bedford up by Gloucester. You know what they tell me? They keep pulling stuff up that they dont even know what it is. And so what do they do? I talked to one who said so Id call my brother in law who fishes commercially off the coast of Florida because I send him pictures and he says oh yeah we used to catch those down here. But now theyve moved to Boston and to the waters around Massachusetts and New England. So heres what really scares me. This isnt slowing down. Its speeding up. Where are they going next? And what are we going to be left with? We count on our oceans for life not just for food but what it means in our entire climate. You want to call it a Blue New Deal count me in. But part of getting the carbon out of the air out of the water out of the soil is also about the change in whats happening in our oceans these big dead patches now and the patches of trash. However Warren did not issue a specifics for a Blue New Deal proposal Which goes back to a point I was making earlier and that is we cant just think about cleaning up the United States of America. We cannot think about from the East Coast to the West Coast plus Hawaii and Alaska. We cant just think from the Canadian border down to the border with Mexico. We have to think about the whole world. And thats why many of my plans intersect with our global opportunities and responsibilities. Like I said lots of plans elizabethwarren.comclimate. Because weve got to be working on all fronts. Despite Warrens lack of details Democrats seem to be on board with the concept. Were trying to step into this void because most of the climate plans are really focused on the big manufacturing and industrial emitters and the big terrestrial sources of pollution said Jason Scorse director of the Center for the Blue Economy at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies and any early crafter of the Blue New Deal approach. Thats great and they should do this but there is this overlooked ocean component that can play a big role in any eventual climate solution. The ocean is a huge part of the climate system that people dont talk about and it could be part of the solution because the coastal ecosystem holds more carbon said Ayana Johnson a marine biologist and founder of Ocean Collectiv. Its not green versus blue its just that the ocean has a huge part to play in the climate system. Coasts face unbelievable change. Its not all related to climate and carbon but those are amplifying and accelerating those changes at every level from coastal infrastructure to fishery conservation said Brad Warren executive director at the National Fisheries Conservation Center. Scorse argues the U.S. needs to invest in aquaculture growing underwater plants that can capture carbon and protect against storm surges along with shellfish like oysters that help filter the water the Hill reports. It adds that a Blue New Deal would emphasize tremendous investments in coastal infrastructure. Warren has yet to roll out an official Blue New Deal proposal but her 3 trillion climate change planinspired by Washington Gov. Jay Inslee D is expansive pulling from many of her existing plans to address issues broadly related to the topic of climate change.	True	False	False	True	True
An extensive report from the Environmental Protection Agency found that including ethanol into the U.S. gas supply is wreaking havoc on the atmosphere and soil. In a study titled Biofuels and the Environment The Second Triennial Report to Congress the Environmental Protection Agency EPA determined thatethanol derived from corn and soybeans is causing serious harm to the environment.Water soil and air quality were all found to be adversely affected by biofuel mandates. Evidence since enactment of the Energy Independence and Security Act suggests an increase in acreage planted with soybeans and corn with strong indications from observed changes in land use that some of this increase is a consequence of increased biofuel production read a portion of the 159 page report. The ethanol mandate has negatively effected water quality with greater biofuel production resulting in more harmful algae blooms and hypoxia. While most algae is harmless to water some forms such as the kind produced in Lake Eerie from biofuel feedstock has emitted toxic chemicals into the water. This harmful algae can consume the oxygen in the water a process known as hypoxia killing other wildlife. Increased irrigation fueled by growing demand for ethanol has also taken a toll on the ground with the report finding grassland to annual crop conversion negatively impacts soil quality because it increases erosion and the loss of soil nutrients. Essentially the study found that biofuel mandates are boosting production of corn and soybeans. Large scale production of these crops is causing environmental degradation.The EPA also found that at least in some instances using ethanol in lieu of gasoline resulted in worse air emissions. Air quality modeling suggests that production and use of ethanol as fuel to displace gasoline is likely to increase such air pollutants as PM2.5 ozone and SOx in some locations read a section of the report pertaining to air quality. While traditional gasoline contains more CO2 ethanol based fuels have more nitrogen oxides NOx which can be more harmful to human health. NOx can exacerbate asthma by causing inflammation of the respiratory airwaves with long term exposure resulting in decreased lung function The mandate in reference concerns the Renewable Fuel Standard RFS a 2005 law that requires oil refineries include a certain amount of ethanol in their fuel mix. The law was passed with the intention of aiding in climate change efforts. The RFS has proven to be controversial with oil producers deriding the mandate as costly and unneeded. Corn growers however support the mandate as it drives demand for the product. RELATED New EPA Chief Will Continue Scott Pruitts War With The Corn Lobby During his time leading the EPA Scott Pruitt became an adversary of ethanol proponents after granting more RFS waivers and pushing for a rollback of the law altogether. Its not immediately clear how the Trump administration will handle the RFS debate moving forward. Acting EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler has suggested he will continue seeking changes to the mandate but President Donald Trump told an Iowa crowd in July that the EPA may soon allow for more ethanol to be included in gas. The EPA study published on June 29 came after a long delay. Federal law calls for the EPA to conduct a study on the Renewable Fuel Standard every three years but the government was four years late this go around. The agencys previous ethanol study was published in 2011. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	True	True	True	True	True
The Five co host Jesse Watters had some tough words for 2020 hopeful Beto O'Rourke after the former Texas representative proposed a 5 trillion climate change plan alongside the claim that the United States only had 10 years left to address the issue. If someone calls you on thephone and says you're going todie in ten years unless you giveme all your money that's ascam Watters said.He'sascam artist andeverybodyknows it. O'Rourke asserted his controversial 10 year prediction while appearing on MSNBC on Monday. He told host Chris Hayes that he sought to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. During that appearance he indicated that he would have to make himself an opponent of the oil and gas industries'interests. We know that certain oil and gas corporations have been fighting public policy on this issue have been hiding their own science and research at the expense of our climate and human life he said. OCASIO CORTEZ CALLS CLIMATE CHANGE OUR 'WORLD WAR II' WARNS THE WORLD WILL END IN 12 YEARS So whenever those two things come in contrast or in opposition I'm always going to choose the people of this country. O'Rourke also said that he wanted people in the fossil fuel industry to act as partners in reaching his goal. You have a 21 trillionU.S. economy thefossil fuel industry runs thiseconomy it'screated all of thiswealth revolutionizedtransportation communications industry lifted people out of poverty Watters said. Beto who'sdone nothingexcept lose to Sen. Ted Cruz R Texascomesup and says I'm going to take 5 trillion and I'm going to reverse everything and change it all. He's no Einstein he's no Carnegie. Where does he get off thinking he's going to stop human progress? Watters asked. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP He went on to speculate that O'Rourke pushed his climate plan because he felt guilty about the American economy's success because he and other liberals have not had enough input in it. O'Rourke's program was an ambitious endeavor similar to Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez's D N.Y. Green New Deal which many saw as too expensive and unrealistic. When Ocasio Cortezresponded to O'Rourke's plan she said he didn't have an aggressive enough timeline.	False	True	False	True	False
After years of failing to pass a carbon tax climate hawks are now rallying behind a bold new proposal for tackling global warming. Known as the Green New Deal this economic stimulus package for the planet promises to dramatically cut carbon emissions through government spending on clean energy jobs technologies and infrastructure. The main selling point of the Green New Deal has been its politics. While carbon pricing has long been touted as the most cost effective policy for reducing emissions it has struggled to gain legislative traction. By contrast advocates of the Green New Deal believe their proposal can build a winning coalition by reframing climate policy as a story of economic growth and opportunity. A Green New Deal is not just good politics. It is good economics. Society can combat climate change by using existing clean technologies to cut emissions today or by innovating new clean technologies to cut emissions in the future. We need both strategies to address global warming. Every second that we delay in reducing our carbon footprint imposes costs on ourselves and on countless future generations. If we want to avoid climate catastrophe we need to make deep cuts in emissions soon. On the other hand the challenges and costs of relying solely on current technologies to address climate change are prohibitively high. We need investments in clean innovation to make it cheaper to reduce emissions in the future. We could achieve the twin goals of slashing emissions and spurring innovation by putting a very high price on greenhouse gases. Carbon taxes can encourage industries to both reduce their footprints and develop cheaper clean technologies. However carbon pricing by itself is not the most efficient climate policy. As we explain in a recent paper the cheaper and faster approach for our society is to combine a moderately sized carbon tax with significant federal spending on the development and deployment of clean technologies. While carbon pricing is the most cost effective way to reduce emissions today government subsidies are the most cost effective way to advance clean technologies tomorrow. The intuition behind all this is simple. Policies work best when they are narrowly tailored to the behavior that they seek to alter. Thus if we want markets to produce more clean innovation we should reward innovators rather than penalize polluters in the hopes that doing so will indirectly induce them to produce innovation. The benefits of directly encouraging clean innovation are striking. Economists have estimated our society can save more than 1.4 trillion a year if governments used a combination of taxes and subsidies rather than taxes only to address climate change. In short good economics calls for the type of broad federal spending on clean innovation that the Green New Deal promises to deliver. Of course the effectiveness of the proposal at spurring innovation will depend on its design the exact details of which have yet to be ironed out. The package should increase funding for early stage clean energy research as this kind of basic science is usually too risky to attract private investors. The Green New Deal should also include subsidies for the adoption and deployment of clean technologies such as tax credits for clean energy investment and manufacturing. These types of policies that help emerging technologies scale up and mature can be powerful drivers of clean energy innovation. Critics will undoubtedly argue that we cannot afford the Green New Deal. This line of attack however ignores the costs of inaction. While the Green New Deal will not be cheap its price pales in comparison to the damage that unchecked climate change will inflict on the economy. This argument also ignores the savings that will result from the push toward clean energy innovation under the Green New Deal. The development of cheaper clean technologies should more than offset the costs of the stimulus package. Opponents will also claim that the government is a bad venture capitalist and that a Green New Deal will pour taxpayer dollars into clean energy boondoggles. While concerns about government waste are certainly real they can be avoided through smart policy design. The government can encourage innovation without favoring particular clean technologies or companies by enacting neutral research and development tax credits. The ideal economic climate policy does include carbon pricing. But we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good. Even if the government cannot enact the best policy for cutting emissions today it can still use the best policy for advancing clean innovation tomorrow. The Green New Deal pushes climate policy into uncharted political waters but it does so based on sound economic theories. If we want to save the planet for the least amount of money we need the Green New Deal and we need it now. Quentin Karpilow is a law clerk in the federal judiciary. Zachary Liscow is an economist and a professor at Yale Law School who has served on the staff of the White House Council of Economic Advisors. The views are their own.	True	False	False	True	True
Scott Pruitt who on Thursday resigned as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency was a firm favourite of Donald Trump. But Pruitt was plagued by scandal and faltered in carrying out the presidents agenda of peeling back clean air and water regulations. His replacement is likely to be far more adept. While Pruitt was a bte noire to environmentalists for his zeal in targeting Obama era rules and his dismissal of climate science his attempts at deregulation were regularly framed as rushed and clumsy as they floundered in the courts. Andrew Wheeler Pruitts replacement at least in the interim could be a more effective weapon for Trump. A consummate Washington insider and a former coal lobbyist he will likely approach his work with the same ideology as Pruitt but without the flamboyance and ethical scandals a far more dangerous prospect for those aghast at the Trump administrations attitude to the environment. Pruitts agenda was really Trumps agenda and I think Andrew is as fully committed to advancing it as Pruitt was Myron Ebell who led the EPA transition team for Trump and has known Wheeler for two decades told the Guardian. He knows much more about managing the agency and the technical side of the environmental statutes that EPA is charged with enforcing than Pruitt. Undoing Barack Obamas regulatory onslaught at EPA is a key part of the presidents economic revival agenda and therefore Wheeler will be a point man for Trump just as Pruitt was. For opponents of the president the prospect is a daunting one. Scott Pruitt was the most scandal plagued cabinet member in an administration rife with corruption said Christy Goldfuss an environment advisor to Obama who is now at the Center for American Progress. There is no reason to believe that Wheeler will fix the problems left behind and put childrens health ahead of his industry friends. Confirmed by the Senate as deputy EPA administrator in April Wheeler is well versed in the machinations of the federal government. He spent four years at the EPAs office of pollution prevention in the Bush and Clinton administrators before working for Senator James Inhofe an Oklahoma Republican whose vocal rejection of climate change science involved theatrics such as bringing a snowball on to the Senate floor. Wheeler then became a lobbyist at Faegre Baker Daniels where he represented Murray Energy a major coal company until August 2017. The firm put to Trump a wish list of environmental rollbacks Wheeler helped in its attempts to fight limits on toxic emissions such as mercury. While working for Marco Rubios presidential campaign in February 2016 Wheeler wrote a now deleted Facebook post in which he called Trump a PR person and a bully which he said should alone should disqualify him from the White House. That has not hindered his rise in the Trump administration. Shortly after his nomination in October Wheeler sent an email to Ryan Jackson Pruitts chief of staff with a link to an article by the satirical website the Onion that was headlined EPA Promotes Pulsating Black Sludge to Deputy Director. Welcome pulsating black sludge Jackson responded in emails released under freedom of information laws. I guess Im going to have to get the cleaning crews to come in more often. Wheeler insisted he didnt want Pruitts job. I could have put my hat in the ring for the administrator he said in June. I wasnt interested in that. I am still not interested in that. Now that he is in the role he said he didnt covet he will be tasked with completing the job of dismantling environmental and climate regulations. Pruitt went about it enthusiastically but ran into legal action launched by states such as New York and California as well as environmental groups. Pruitts attempt to halt restrictions on emissions of methane a powerful greenhouse gas was stymied by the courts as were proposed delays to stricter limits of lead in paint and hazy ozone in urban areas. Trumps EPA has also had difficulty in coming up with robust reasons why fuel efficiency rules for cars should be watered down or what will replace the clean power plan given that the agency is legally obliged to force down greenhouse gas emissions. Wheeler with his knowledge of the rule making process will help manage such reversals while avoiding headlines over 1500 fountain pens Trump Hotel mattresses or Chick fil A franchises. He is low key and likes to keep a low profile Ebell said. He may have to do more public speaking than he wants to. A senior EPA official who did not wish to be named said I think it will be night and day with Wheeler or at least night and late afternoon. He will talk to us. Hes a human being not a politician. Wheeler is likely to maintain Pruitts close ties to industry however. Under Trump the fossil fuel industry has wielded unusual influence over the agency that supposedly regulates it and beleaguered staff fret that its public health mission is at risk of being buried. Pruitts removal is just the first step in restoring a strong EPA that gets back to its mission to protect public health and our environment said Carol Browner a long serving EPA chief in Bill Clintons administration. Congress must ensure the next EPA administrator is not another industry insider.	True	False	False	True	True
In February a group of high profile Republicans announced their support for a plan that would tax carbon dioxide emissions in order to slow global warming which they believe to be caused by humans. According to the group which is led by former Secretaries of State James Baker III and George Shultz and former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson their plan would tax fossil fuel companies and redistribute the funds back to Americans in equal portions thereby artificially raising the price of fossil fuels and making renewable energy sources more competitive. Now left wing climate alarmists are seizing on this idea which some say is the only policy idea attempting to limit fossil fuels the American people and the Trump administration would be willing to support. Climate alarmists have long advocated for a carbon tax in varying forms as one possible solution to the purported global warming crisis. In a recent interview with the Scientific American noted climate alarmist James Hansen which the article refers to as the father of climate change awareness said the plan promoted by Republicans is similar to one he developed in 2008 and would be popular with the American people. The only effective way of addressing climate change is to make the price of fossil fuels include their cost to society said Hansen. That could be done in a simple way by collecting a fee from the fossil fuel companies that would gradually rise over timea carbon fee and dividend. I call it a carbon fee because you would give all of the money to the public a dividend to each legal resident Hansen said. have adopted almost precisely as I proposed it in 2008. The starting level of the fee varies from one proposition to anotherI believe that they start at 40 per ton of carbon. suggest 55 per ton yields a dividend of 1000 per legal resident and 3000 for a family with two or more children with one half share for each child a maximum of two half shares per family. Hansen claims by imposing the tax and then redistributing the money to consumers the increased price of gasoline would be offset and Americans would be happy having received thousands of extra dollars from the government. This way it actually stimulates the economy Hansen said. If its a tax taken by the government it makes the government bigger and it depresses the economy. Thats why I object to the Democrats as much as to the Republicans. The only way the public will allow a carbon fee is if you give the money to thempeople dont want to see the price of gasoline at the pump going up. The Washington Post reported on April 4 sources inside the Trump administration say the president is considering including a carbon tax as one way to help raise revenues. The Post also reported the sources claimed the carbon tax proposal is very controversial and that some within the administration are staunchly opposed to it. Carbon taxes are viewed by many on the left as an easy way to price fossil fuels out of the marketplace making renewable energy comparably more affordable. Opponents of the plan say its another form of socialistic wealth distribution that will dramatically raise energy costs. Opponents say energy costs will increase not only because of the tax but also because energy companies will raise prices across the board knowing that all consumers have more money to spend thanks to carbon tax dividends.	False	False	False	True	True
Sen. Elizabeth Warren D MA on Friday praised the climate change activists who are striking on Black Friday urging them to stay strong in this fight! Climate change activists across the globe opted to protest what they consider a climate crisis on the biggest shopping day of the year disrupting shoppers at the Water Tower Place shopping mall in Chicago Illinois and holding a Black Friday Funeral For Future in the nations capital Warren emphatically expressed her support for their efforts. Climate change is an existential threat and its going to take a grassroots movement ready to fight for big structural change to defeat it Warren wrote. Im standing with the young activists on todaystay strong in this fight! While protests indeed broke out across the globe the protest in D.C. featured a funeral procession to draw attention to the crisis and show that business as usual can not continue. Well gather on the Southeast lawn of the Capitol to eulogize and mourn all that has been lost and all that is threatened by the climate crisis the events description reads. All those with hopes and dreams who cherish the future are invited to gather in the shadow of the Halls of Congress. The ceremonial closed casket funeral will conclude with a funeral procession through the streets of Washington DC it added quoting activists who called petroleum a plague and the black death of our generation. Were bringing the loss of our future to the steps of the Capitol because they need to prepare to own this death 17 year old organizer Maddie Graham said. We need systemic change. Congress has been feeding our fossil fuel addiction Graham added. They know they are killing our future but they wont take action to save it. Meanwhile Warren has attempted to channel Gov. Jay Inslees D climate change proposals in recent months. Warren said during an interview with New Hampshire Public Radio in October We do those three things we cut carbon emission in our country by 70 percent. Think about that three things 70 percent reduction she added. The host asked Warren a listener question name the specific steps she has taken in her campaign to ensure that your campaigns environmental impact is limited as possible. Warren did not go into detail but claimed that she mostly flies commercial. So Ive mostly been flying commercial Warren said. Its everything from the kind of car we drive and down to do we purchase offsets? Can we make that work s a way to try to reduce the footprint she added	False	False	False	True	False
Warren promised in a tweet Friday to sign an executive order that puts a total moratorium on all new fossil fuel leases for drilling offshore and on public lands and vowed to ban fracking everywhere Warrens pledge to ban fracking follows Sen. Bernie Sanders I VT call urging fellow Democrat candidates to support a fracking ban on public and private lands. Fracking is a danger to our water supply. Its a danger to the air we breathe. It causes earthquakes. Its highly explosive. Safe fracking is like clean coal pure fiction Sanders said in a statement Wednesday. But most importantly methane from natural gas contributes to climate change and is setting us on a path to disaster he added. When we are in the White House we will end the era of fossil fuels and that includes fracking Ten Democrat candidates participated in CNNs seven hour climate change town hall Wednesday and manysignaled support for the implementation of a carbon tax as well as plastic straw bans actions on meat consumption and the end of fracking. Theres no question Im in favor of banning fracking Sen. Kamala Harris D CA said during the town hall. Starting with what we can do on day one around public lands and then there has to be legislation but yes. This is something Ive taken on in California I have a history of working on this issue she added. Sen. Cory Booker D NJ said he would ban fracking right away on public lands. Warren released her comprehensive climate change proposal inspired by Gov. Jay Inslee D ahead of CNNs town hall. It called for the decarbonization of the economy and100 percent clean energy over the next decade. While Warren did not go as far as Sanders in calling for the complete public ownership of utilities she said she will tell companies that use carbon based fuel that they are done by 2035. Im perfectly willing to take on giant corporations. I think Ive been known to do that once or twice. But for me I think the way we get there is we just say sorry guys but by 2035 youre done she said during CNNs town hall.	True	False	False	True	True
The White House shot down rumors Tuesday that administration officials were considering a tax on carbon dioxide emissions. The Washington Post published a story on Tuesday citing two Trump administration officials who said a carbon tax and value added tax or VAT were under consideration as part of a broader tax reform plan. But the White House quickly disavowed the statements allegedly made by the two officials marking the second time in three weeks the Trump administration has had to shoot down carbon tax rumors. As we have said many times the Presidents team is hearing input from experts on all sides of the tax reform debate as we formulate what will ultimately be the Presidents plan to enact the first significant tax reform since 1986 deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters said in a statement responding to WaPosstory. As of now neither a carbon tax nor a VAT are under consideration Walters said. Walters told reporters in March the Trump administration is not considering a carbon tax after press secretary Sean Spicer waffled on the question. White House officials met with a group of Republicans who back a carbon tax in early February. Spicer did not respond to a request for comment. A small group of Republicans have been pushing a carbon tax for years arguing its more efficient than federal regulations and could be used to offset revenue losses from reductions in tax rates. Most recently old guard Republicans on the Climate Leadership Council CLC met with White House officials to pitch a carbon tax that would start at 40 per ton and rise over the years. CLC says the tax could replace federal regulations and the revenues could be given back to Americans in the form of dividends. Many carbon tax proposals are revenue neutral reads the Councils plan. This proposal goes one step further by shrinking the overall size of government and streamlining the regulatory state. The meeting sparked speculation that the White House was considering a carbon tax as part of a broader tax reform plan. Many carbon tax plans claim to raise 1 trillion over ten years. The White House has shot down such speculation but some administration officials seem intent on telling media outlets a carbon tax is still being considered. Most Republicans dont buy into a carbon tax. They argue its not very conservative to back what would essentially amount to a tax on energy which would effectively raise the price of all goods and services. President Donald Trump told the American Energy Alliance in a survey taken during the campaign that he opposed a carbon tax and the Obama administrations social cost of carbon estimate. Trump signed an executive order in late March rescinding the Obama administrations social cost of carbon estimate. Trump also ordered the Environmental Protection Agency EPA to review and possibly rescind the Clean Power Plan the cornerstone of the former administrations global warming agenda. Conservative activists point out theres no deal to be made on trading federal environmental regulations for a carbon tax since Trumps already promised to roll back 75 percent of federal rules. If the Trump Administration were to endorse this idea they would not only be breaking a campaign commitment but would essentially be negotiating against themselves on regulations said Tom Pyle president of the American Energy Alliance and former member of Trumps transition team. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	False	False	False	False	False
Trump administration officials are keeping their lips sealed on whether they believe there are connections between the two Category 4 hurricanes that came barreling at the United States in recent weeks Harvey and Irma and climate change. When Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders was asked about a link Monday she touted the country's environmental record and moved on. When Homeland Security Advisor Tom Bossert was asked as he preceded Huckabee Sanders in the briefing he wouldn't talk about climate change's cause. 'I will tell you that we continue to take seriously the climate change' he said. 'Not the cause of it but the things that we observe.' 'Causality is something outside my ability to analyze right now' Bossert also added. When President Trump was asked about it Sunday returning home to the White House from Camp David he simply ignored the reporter's query and walked inside. Climate scientists largely agree that the oceans are heating up leading to larger scarier hurricanes. At Monday's briefing Huckabee Sanders dismissed a climate change question noting that Trump had addressed the issue previously of whether he thought it was man made. In the past Trump has suggested climate change was a hoax created by the Chinese to choke American industry. In June he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate accord. Huckabee Sanders was also asked if Trump was re thinking that decision now. 'I'm not sure specifically on the Paris climate deal but as he said at the time the goal is to always do the very best when taking care of the environment and taking proper steps' Huckabee Sanders replied. 'The United States is one of the best in the world at doing this we want to continue to do that but right now the administration is focused on the recovery and the relief efforts and as Tom Bossert said a few minutes ago we'll look at that analysis once we get through the coming days and focus on the recovery and relief and saving life effort' Huckabee Sanders added. Bossert had suggested that the hurricanes be studied though also pointed out the cyclical nature of the seasons. 'And I think the scientists for the forecast on this particular one they were dead on that this would be a stronger more powerful hurricane season with slightly more than average large storms making landfall in the United States' he said. 'So we'll have to do a larger trend analysis at a later date' Bossert added. The Environmental Protection Agency's Scott Pruitt went one step further when asked about climate change Friday suggesting that it wasn't appropriate. 'To have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm versus helping people or actually facing the effect of the storm is misplaced' Pruitt said. Of course the scientific community as the New York Times put it believes that'drawing links between warming global temperatures and the ferocity of hurricanes is about as controversial as talking about geology after an earthquake.' But in politics it's become a heated issue that speaks to the current red versus blue divide. And while it's primarily Republicans who won't touch the global warming third rail that doesn't always hold true. On Sunday Sen. John McCain R Fla. who has preached bipartisanship in recent months on the heels of his cancer diagnosis told CNN's Jake Tapper that he didn't know why his Republican colleagues were denying climate change adding that it was 'time to sit down.' 'We have to understand that the climate may be changing and we can take common sense measures which will not harm the American people' McCain argued.	True	False	False	True	True
Hurricane Michael roared through the Florida Panhandle last week with 155 mph winds and a storm surge that reached 14 feet killing at least 18 people in four states destroying homes and knocking down power lines serving millions of customers. Tyndall Air Force Base near Panama City Florida took a direct hit and suffered heavy damage. The flight line is devastated. Every building has severe damage. Many buildings are a complete loss according to the bases most recent storm damage update. Of particular concern were the bases F 22 Raptor aircraft the most sophisticated fighter jet in the Air Forces arsenal. The stealth fighters cost 377 million apiece if you include research and development costs and the Air Force has 183 of them in its inventory. Tyndall is home to 55 of those F 22s. The New York Times reported that 33 of the Raptors were sent to Wright Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio leaving several of the highly valuable aircraft in the path of the storm. A spokesperson for the Air Force declined to give any tallies for damaged aircraft at Tyndall saying that crews are still assessing the scale of the damage. However photos taken by passers by show several F 22s in damaged hangars. We dont yet know the full extent of the damage across Tyndall or to the F 22s in particular. Reports now indicate that most of the F 22 aircraft that remained at Tyndall survived the storm intact and with repairable damage. But the fact that expensive hardware was housed in exposed structures on the Gulf Coast illustrates how vulnerable the military is to extreme weather especially as storms like hurricanes gain a boost from climate change. It also shows that the military is on the front lines of the consequences of rising temperatures. Conflicts exacerbated by drought heat and storms are a major concern for defense planners. Military installations themselves are also at risk At least 128 bases face inundation from sea level rise. With billions of dollars of assets in harms way and more weather extremes on the horizon making and enacting disaster plans are becoming all the more critical for the military. While Hurricane Michael was the first Category 4 storm to make landfall in the Florida Panhandle on record major hurricanes have struck the region in the past. Tyndall Air Force Base spans more than 29000 acres and is home to almost 4000 active military personnel. Officials say that base staff and their families were evacuated ahead of the storm and since Michael passed no fatalities or injuries were reported. But the bases runways sit adjacent to barrier islands including the aptly named Hurricane Island and were particularly at risk for damage from extreme weather. A hangar on the base even served as a refuge for other Raptors in May as Subtropical Storm Alberto hit the region. Tyler Rogoway at The Drive wrote a compelling explanation for why all the valuable aircraft werent simply flown out of harms way At modern fighter is not a Honda Accord. You dont just hop in it and drive it around for months until you finally have to take it for a one hour oil change when the light comes on. If anything they are far more akin to high end sports cars that require a lot of expensive TLC to keep operating. The F 22 in particular is more analogous to an exotic supercar or even a high end race car than anything else. It requires dozens of hours of maintenance for every single flight hour and deep maintenance can take days or even many weeks to accomplish depending on what is needed to be done and availability of spare parts which can be scarce. The aircraft that werent removed were likely undergoing maintenance and couldnt be readied in time for transportation especially given that Hurricane Michael gained strength so fast. However given that there are so few F 22s overall the Air Force has more than 400 F 15s and more than 1000 F 16s and that Raptors are no longer being manufactured each lost or damaged F 22 presents a large loss of capability. The coastal bases that house sensitive equipment like F 22s also face hazards particularly from extreme weather. As climate change pushes average temperatures up the raw ingredients of hurricanes water temperature and air temperature also intensify. Water temperatures in the Gulf of Mexico were 3 to 5 degrees Fahrenheit higher than is typical this time of year. Michaels rapid ramp up also comports with what scientists expect from global warming. As the climate continues to warm hurricanes may intensify more rapidly just before striking land making hurricane forecasting more difficult wrote Massachusetts Institute of Technology climate scientist Kerry Emanuel in a 2017 paper in the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society. For its part the military has been blunt about the risks posed by climate change describing it as a threat multiplier. The effects of a changing climate will impact our security situation said Defense Secretary James Mattis during his confirmation hearing. The military assembled an adaptation roadmap in 2014 chalking out how they plan to contend with climate change. Plans include raising coastal infrastructure protecting vulnerable supply chains and increasing disaster training. And the head of the National Guard Air Force Gen. Joseph Lengyel told Voxs Alex Ward last week Theres a lot of storms coming our way. Whatever the reason we have to be ready to deal with them. However Lengyel waffled on humanitys role in shaping the climate behind these storms. I believe the climate is changing. I dont know why he said. However as Hurricane Michael showed theres a vast gulf between acknowledging climate change and adequately preparing for it. Either there was a plan in place to deal with an unprecedented storm at Tyndall and it wasnt followed or there wasnt one and were already seeing the consequences.	False	True	False	True	False
How Luxury Hotels And Restaurants In Developing Countries Fight Food Waste If you've never considered what happens to the remnants of the fully loaded plate of enchiladas chips and salsa you grab from the buffet at an all inclusive Mexico resort you might be in for a shock. Mexico's Velas Vallarta produces a veritable ton of food waste each day but rather than dumping it into the trash the Puerto Vallarta resort delivers roughly 700 pounds of it each morning to a hog farmer down the road to use as feed. Much of what doesn't go to the pigs is composted on site and then used to fertilize the resort's verdant gardens. Ultimately the combo of food waste leaves and grass trimmings are returned to the soil while diverting waste from Mexico's overloaded landfills. Compost is also shared with staff for use at their homes. The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that nearly a quarter of food purchases in hotels and restaurants are simply thrown away. While food waste is a hot topic in the U.S. it's a particular challenge in low income nations where food is sometimes a scarce resource to begin with. Some resorts are doing their part to address it even when governmental regulations and a general lack of awareness make that difficult. In Brazil food safety regulations prevent restaurants from giving away food yet 52 million Brazilians are still threatened by food insecurity according to 2014 research by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics. Meanwhile the country produces almost more food waste than any other nation with 40000 tons wasted each day according to research by the Brazilian Company of Agriculture. That amount of food could feed 19 million people. But in the booming city of Rio de Janeiro a luxury hotel has been turning trash into treasure for more than a decade long before food waste was at the forefront of anyone's mind. The glamorous Belmond Copacabana Palace you know the place where you might see Madonna or Mick Jagger hanging off the balcony was among the country's first hotels to implement a restaurant waste management system in 2008. Today Copacabana Palace recycles more than 1800 gallons of cooking oil and composts nearly all of its food waste but not before crushing it to reduce its volume by 88 percent. For many hotels simple knowledge of the issue has resulted in greater observance from staff and ultimately less waste. When Soneva Fushi a luxury resort in the Maldives conducted a comprehensive food waste audit in 2016 employees sorted weighed and recorded waste for a full week ultimately establishing exactly how much food was wasted per guest down to the gram. I think part of the benefit of a detailed audit like this is that it increases everyone's mindfulness about what they are doing with food says Gordon Jackson the manager of the resort's Waste to Wealth initiative. This has really helped everybody throughout the food and beverage team and the organization as a whole just to think about what they are doing. Since the audit the resort has seen a 50 percent reduction in the amount of waste sent to compost. While it's easier for large hotels and resorts to fund audits and enlist comprehensive waste management systems smaller properties have found low cost ways to reduce their environmental footprint too. When Anita Ritter opened her Island Hideout resort in Koh Yao Noi Thailand a year and a half ago she was shocked by how challenging waste management was on her small sleepy island but a few innovative ideas have brought the resort's food waste to almost zero. Ritter composts much of her property's organic waste to use as fertilizer but she's found uses for compost byproducts too. Compost juice sometimes called bokashi gets a new life as a cleaning fluid used at the resort. It is a very efficient cleaner for clogged drains perfect to clean toilets and sinks and is a very good odor remover she says. Leftover Kaffir limes used in the property's homemade limeade are repurposed in cleaning products. It helps give other islanders something to think about Ritter explains. As we use and reuse things it gives us some social engagement status. In May I experienced one hotel's efforts firsthand as I stood on the roof at ITC Maurya a hotel in Delhi. It was more than 100 degrees outside and flies swarmed above vats of leftover naan and curry from the hotel's five restaurants including Bukhara arguably the world's most famous Indian restaurant. Next to the putrid mix stood a stainless steel tank full of in a sense money all in the form of decaying rotting food. That pricy leftover food the hotel produces more than 1300 pounds of it per day was in the process of being converted to biogas a methane and carbon dioxide mix that's a result of decomposing food. Ultimately the resulting biogas powers the staff cafeteria. The hotel also collects around 100 pounds of waste from the community each day using the same process to convert it into fuel. ITC Maurya's BioUrja plant was a more significant investment than reusing lime peels and bokashi. The plant which consists of a giant digester a pressure vessel scrubbers and an automation panel was installed in June 2016 and cost around 45 lakh or roughly 65000. Still the hotel expects the project to break even in about four years. In the meantime the digester will chug along reducing waste one bowl of leftover dal at a time.	False	False	False	False	False
Upside down rivers of warm ocean water may be one of the causes of Antarctica's ice shelves breaking up leading to a rise in sea levels. A new study suggests that in the past increases in Antarctic sea ice in colder climates may have contributed to ice ages. Using computer simulations the research looked at past changes during the glacial periods and noted that previous increases in sea ice levels may have significantly altered the circulation of the ocean which led to a reverse greenhouse effect as carbon dioxide levels in the ocean increased and levels in the air decreased. One key question in the field is still what caused the Earth to periodically cycle in and out of ice ages University of Chicago professor and the study's co author Malte Jansen said in a statement. We are pretty confident that the carbon balance between the atmosphere and ocean must have changed but we dont quite know how or why. ANTARCTICA'S ICE SHEETS CONTAIN RADIOACTIVE CHLORINE GAS 60 YEARS AFTER NUCLEAR TESTS STUDY SAYS The last major ice age ended at the end of the Pleistocene epoch about 11700 years ago as glaciers have periodically grown and then gotten smaller. Researchers believe that changes to the Earth's orbit may be partly responsible for some of the Earth's cooling but additional factors have likely played a part Jensen added. The most plausible explanation is that there was some change in how carbon was divided between the atmosphere and the ocean Jansen continued. Theres no shortage of ideas about how this happens but its not quite clear how they all fit together. Researchers also believe a mini ice age may have occurred roughly 12800 years ago. It likely stems from an asteroid impact that rocked the Northern Hemisphere and led to the Younger Dryas climate event. Jansen pointed out that the Southern Ocean around Antarctica plays a key role in ocean circulation due to the deep waters in the region leading it to have outsized consequences. AIR POLLUTION MORE DEADLY THAN SMOKING NEW STUDY FINDS What this suggests is that its a feedback loop said the study's lead author Alice Marzocchi. As the temperature drops less carbon is released into the atmosphere which triggers more cooling. What surprised me is how much of this increased storage can be attributed to physical changes alone with Antarctic sea ice cover being the key player Marzocchi added noting that future study of the ocean and the role it plays in the carbon cycle can help simulate future environmental change. The research has been published in the scientific journal Nature Geoscience. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Correction A previous version of the story said the study had implications for future events. It was only about past events.	False	True	False	True	True
GRETA Thunberg has been snubbed for the Nobel Peace Prize which has instead been awarded to Ethiopia's Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed for ending the 20 year Eritrea conflict. Bookies had suggested the teen climate campaigner was the front runner for the illustrious honour after she launched a furious tirade at the United Nations. But the Nobel Institute gave the award to the Ethiopian leader for ending one of Africa's longest running conflicts. Within months of coming to office in 2018 the 43 year old signed a Joint Declaration of Peace and Friendship with Eritrean Prime Minister Isaias Afwerki. He was also praised for his domestic reforms including releasing tens of thousands of political prisoners and allowed previously banned opposition groups. The prize is 730000 and will be formally awarded in Oslo in December. Greta first came to prominence after launching a school strike that has inspired millions of kids to take Fridays off to protest about climate change. The 16 year old Swede started the Fridays for Future movement to demand action be taken to combat global warming and is currently taking a year off school to focus on campaigning. Greta started the strike alone outside the Swedish parliament in Stockholm last August and has gone on to become one of the most recognisable faces in world affairs. The enmity between the two countries that occupy the Horn of Africa came after a border war fought between 1998 and 2000. The two countries disputed their border in the scrubby and desolate plains of Badime. Around 80000 soldiers and civilians died in the war which drained the resources of the two countries. The total cost to Ethiopia of the war and was believed to be around 3 billion while Eritrea was force to conscript 300000 soldiers a tenth of its population. After the fighting ended a stalemate remained as international mediation efforts were made to resolve their dispute. After Abiy took office he offered an olive branch to the Eritreans. Within weeks Eritrea's longtime leader visibly moved visited Ethiopia's capital Addis Ababa and communications and transport links were restored. For the first time in two decades people could long divided families made tearful reunions. The improving relations led to the lifting of United Nations sanctions on Eritrea one of the world's most reclusive nations. She already has an honour to her name after winning Amnesty International's highest Ambassadors of Conscience human rights award last month. Climate change is an issue which is strongly related to security and peace. In her UN speech Greta blasted governments for thinking only of money as she said the world was sleepwalking into a climate catastrophe. She raged People are suffering people are dying entire ecosystems are collapsing we are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and the fairy tale of endless economic growth. How dare you! The teens fiery speech was hailed by millions with climate change activists taking to the streets in huge protests around the world. But head activism has led to criticism from from world leaders and others who allege she is being manipulated. Vladimir Putin took aim at the teenager branding her poorly informed and saying she was telling developing countries they should keep living in poverty. The Russian president claimed its hypocritical to lecture poorer countries on the environmental impact of their bids to become more developed like the West. No one has explained to Greta that the modern world is complex and different and ... people in Africa or in many Asian countries want to live at the same wealth level as in Sweden. Go and explain to developing countries why they should continue living in poverty and not be like Sweden. Putin said young people who paid attention to environmental issues should be supported. Im sure that Greta is a kind and very sincere girl he said. But adults must do everything not to bring teenagers and children into some extreme situations. Donald Trump also took aim sarcastically mocking her as a very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future. French President Emmanuel Macron also warned her radical climate change stance risks depressing an entire generation. And some individuals were even more scathing with sick trolls branding her the little girl with mental problems and others suggesting shes not sexy enough in vile rants.	False	True	True	True	False
HAZARD Ky. AP A coalition of left leaning states and environmental groups are vowing to fight the Trump administration's move to kill an Obama era effort to limit carbon emissions from coal fired power plants. Speaking Monday in the coal mining state of Kentucky Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt said he would be issuing a new set of rules overriding the Clean Power Plan the centerpiece of President Barack Obama's drive to curb global climate change. The war on coal is over Pruitt declared adding that no federal agency should ever use its authority to declare war on any sector of our economy. It was not immediately clear if Pruitt would seek to issue a new rule without congressional approval which Republicans had criticized the Obama administration for doing. Pruitt's rule wouldn't become final for months and is then highly likely to face a raft of legal challenges. New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman was among those who said they will sue. The Trump Administration's persistent and indefensible denial of climate change and their continued assault on actions essential to stemming its increasing devastation is reprehensible and I will use every available legal tool to fight their dangerous agenda said Schneiderman a Democrat. For Pruitt getting rid of the Clean Power Plan will mark the culmination of a long fight he began as the elected attorney general of Oklahoma. Pruitt was among about two dozen attorney generals who sued to stop Obama's 2014 push to limit carbon emissions stymieing the limits from ever taking effect. Closely aligned with the oil and gas industry in his home state Pruitt rejects the consensus of scientists that man made emissions from burning fossil fuels are the primary driver of global climate change. President Donald Trump who appointed Pruitt and shares his skepticism of established climate science promised to kill the Clean Power Plan during the 2016 campaign as part of his broader pledge to revive the nation's struggling coal mines. In his order Tuesday Pruitt is expected to declare that the Obama era rule exceeded federal law by setting emissions standards that power plants could not reasonably meet. Pruitt appeared at an event with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell at Whayne Supply in Hazard Kentucky a company that sells coal mining supplies. The store's owners have been forced to lay off about 60 percent of its workers in recent years. While cheering the demise of the Clean Power Plan as a way to stop the bleeding McConnell conceded most of those lost jobs are never coming back. A lot of damage has been done said McConnell a Kentucky Republican. This doesn't immediately bring everything back but we think it stops further decline of coal fired plants in the United States and that means there will still be some market here. Obama's plan was designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. The rule dictated specific emission targets for states based on power plant emissions and gave officials broad latitude to decide how to achieve reductions. The Supreme Court put the plan on hold last year following legal challenges by industry and coal friendly states. Even so the plan helped drive a recent wave of retirements of coal fired plants which are also being squeezed by low cost natural gas and renewable power. In the absence of stricter federal regulations curbing greenhouse gas emissions many states have issued their own mandates promoting energy conservation. The withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan is the latest in a series of moves by Trump and Pruitt to dismantle Obama's legacy on fighting climate change including the delay or roll back of rules limiting levels of toxic pollution in smokestack emissions and wastewater discharges from coal burning power plants. On Thursday Trump nominated former coal industry lobbyist Andrew Wheeler to serve as Pruitt's top deputy at EPA one of several recent political appointees at the agency with direct ties to the fossil fuel interests. The president announced earlier this year that he will pull the United States out of the landmark Paris climate agreement. Nearly 200 countries have committed to combat global warming by reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming. This president has tremendous courage Pruitt said Monday. He put America first and said to the rest of the world we are going to say no and exit the Paris Accord. That was the right thing to do. Despite the rhetoric about saving coal government statistics show that coal mines currently employ only about 52000 workers nationally a modest 4 percent uptick since Trump became president. Those numbers are dwarfed by the jobs created by building such clean power infrastructure as wind turbines and solar arrays. Trump is not just ignoring the deadly cost of pollution he's ignoring the clean energy deployment that is rapidly creating jobs across the country said Michael Brune executive director of the Sierra Club. Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker reported from Washington. Follow him at This story has been corrected to show the percentage of coal jobs created under Trump was 4 percent.	True	False	False	True	True
Taking hisprevious statementseven further Interior Secretary David Bernhardt told lawmakers Tuesday that he is not obligated to combat climate change because there is no law requiring that he do so. Bernhardt responded by noting that there are over 600 instances in the law directing the Interior Department secretary to do certain things including completing reports and making certain authorizations but he said there is no such mandate for addressing planetary warming. You know what theres not is a shall for I shall manage the land to stop climate change or something similar to that he said pointing the finger at Congress. The hearing was the first of two appearances Bernhardt has before Congress this week to defend the Trump administrations 2020 budget request which calls for a 14 cut in funding for the Department of the Interior. But a good portion of the discussion focused on climate change environmental protections and an ethics investigation against Bernhardt and several other agency officials. A sobering United Nations report released Monday found that up to 1 million species of land and marine species are at risk of extinction due to human actions. Neither Bernhardt nor the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service an agency he oversees and that is primarily responsible for safeguarding the nations imperiled species issued a statement about the report. Rep. Betty McCollum D Minn. the subcommittees chair quoted from the U.N. report and told Bernhardt the country is depending on you to help lead the fight along with us to combat these issues including the biodiversity and climate crises. She asked Bernhardt how he would incorporate the scientific findings into the agencys activities and asked if he would rethink the administrations push to boost domestic energy production. Are we going to stop oil and gas development because of this report? The answer to that is no Bernhardt said. Congress you all have the ability to decide whether we do anything on federal lands. ... If you have a view on what you want to happen well carry it out when you execute it. That is my position. Bernhardt a former oil and gas lobbyist who was confirmed as agency secretary last month told the subcommittee that he recognizes that the climate is changing that human beings are a contributing factor and that the agency is taking the threat into account in its decision making. A pair of dire reports released last year one from the United Nations and another from more than a dozen federal U.S. agencies warned that world governments are running out of time to stave off catastrophic climate change. Still the Trump administration has barreled ahead with its fossil fuel centric energy dominance agenda.Approximately one quarter of all U.S. greenhouse gas emissions come from fossil fuel extraction on federal lands according to agovernment report released by the Trump administration in November. Bernhardt who brought with him to the job a slew of potential conflicts of interest from his days as an energy lobbyist also faced tough questions Tuesday about alleged ethics violations. Interiors internal watchdog recently opened two ethics probes the first of them just four days into Bernhardts tenure intomultiple high ranking interior officials including the secretary. Bernhardt stressed as he has before that he takes ethics extremely seriously is working to improve the agencys ethics program and is confident that he has complied with all rules and will be cleared at the end of the investigation.	True	False	False	True	False
As international leaders gathered in New York for this weeks meeting of the United Nations General Assembly they got another taste of the Trump Administrations leadership style. It can be summed up in one word confusion. Sometimes it appears to be a result of ineptitude other times it appears to be tactical. Then came the election of Donald Trump. After months of intrigue about what he might do Trump announced in June that the United States plans to withdraw from the accord unless we can re enter on terms that are more favorable to our country. It seemed that Trump left the door open to reversing his decision. Recent events have offered a good opportunity for Trump to do so. Steve Bannon the senior advisor who reportedly pressed Trump to withdraw from the accord has left the White House. Hurricanes Harvey and Irma showed with unprecedented fury that global warming is putting Americans in greater jeopardy by making storms more destructive. And the current convergence of world leaders on New York gives them another opportunity to lobby Trump to reverse his position. As last weekend began the Wall Street Journal reported The Trump administration is considering staying in the Paris agreement to fight climate change under the right conditions offering to re engage in the international deal The White House shot down the story by responding that the presidents intentions have not changed. It was the latest example of the bewilderment Trump has created about whether or not the worlds second biggest source of climate altering pollution plans to do anything about it. First with his seemingly provisional withdrawal decision last June Trump used one of his deal making gambits. He announced an extreme position but hinted he was willing to negotiate. In reality there is no deal to be made and no interest among other nations to reopen an agreement that took the world 20 years to achieve. It appears that Trumps real purpose was to please his base while blunting criticism with the hint that he might change his mind. Second it is clear even now that Trump and his people do not understand the Paris accord. They seem not to have read it. It calls for voluntary commitments from nations to cut their greenhouse gas emissions. If Trump feels the climate action plan President Obama submitted under the Paris accord was somehow disadvantageous to the country he could simply submit a new plan. Instead Trump hopes to show that he is standing up to the world community on behalf of Americas interests. Tillerson exhibited his lack of understanding when he said Sunday if you look at those targets and terms of the Paris climate accord they were just really out of balance for the two largest economies. He presumably was talking about China and the United States who are also the worlds two largest carbon polluters. However the commitments that China and the United States submitted under the Paris accord reflected a historic bilateral agreement that the two nations announced in November 2014. On Sept. 3 2016 President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China jointly reaffirmed their commitments to the Paris deal offering a rare display of harmony as the New York Times put it. So Tillersons perception that the Paris accord is not good for China or the United States was not shared by the two nations leaders. Nor I assume is it shared by the hundreds of businesses and investors who urged Trump to remain in the pact. Other history contradicts the idea that the United States signed onto an out of balance deal. In 1997 most nations signed the Kyoto Protocol an agreement under which developed but not developing nations committed to reduce their carbon pollution. The premise was that the industrial economies were most responsible for the greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and that developing countries needed to continue using fossil fuels for the immediate future to grow their economies. The U.S. Senate whose advice and consent was necessary before President Clinton could ratify the Protocol signaled that it would not concur. It approved a resolution saying that it would not consent to any agreement that did not also include greenhouse gas reductions by developing nations. As a result President Clinton did not bother to submit the Protocol to the Senate and in March 2001 President Bush announced officially that the U.S. would not participate. Third Trumps conditional willingness to reengage in international climate action is belied by the fact that he has laid waste to the federal governments ability to influence Americas carbon pollution. The United States would return to the table with little or nothing to offer in regard to our own substantial emissions.	False	False	False	False	True
The City of Lights Paris has been illuminated in recent days by cars set alight by thousands of protesting Yellow Vestslargely middle class people who earn their living by driving or who commute to get to work. The cause of their ire is a scheduled 25 cents per gallon increase in gas taxes and about 10 cents on diesel to fight climate change. French President Macron deeply unpopular just reversed course on the new green taxParisians are already paying about 7.06 per gallon for gasoline almost half of that in taxes. If Paris streets burned over a proposed25 cents per gallon climate change tax imagine the global conflagration over a 49 per gallon tax. Thats what a United Nations special climate report calls for in 12 years with a carbon tax of 5500 per tonequal to 49 per gallon of gasoline or diesel. Thats about 100 times todays average state and federal motor fuels tax. By 2100 the U.N. estimates that a carbon tax of 27000 per ton is needed240 per gallonto limit global warming to no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius. Of course that isnt going to happen. The economic wreckage of such a punitive tax would plunge the global economy into a permanent depressionand thats assuming politicians could enact such huge tax increases over the will of their voters. Keep in mind that the unrest in France was triggered by a looming 25 cent hike which is a little less than 10 more in taxes than French drivers already pay. To meet the 49 per gallon tax hike recommended by the U.N. fuel taxes in France would have to go up 17 fold. The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed. They dont earn enough to be part of the elite unconcerned with fuel taxes but they work hard enough that they dont qualify for the generous welfare benefits handed out to the nations poor and to newly arrived immigrants from Africa and the Middle East. Here in America Republicans in Congress passed a resolution against carbon taxes over the summer while Democrats embraced the concept in their party platform. Some incoming members of the new Democratic majority in the House are calling to create a select committee to map out a Green New Deal that would move the U.S. toward using 100 renewable energy for the electric grid while guaranteeing jobs for everyone. In the meantime opinion polls indicate that 54 of Americans do not believe global warming will cause major problems within their lifetimes. So how do climate activists get their way? Some openly talk of imposing authoritarian governance to override democratic institutions. Former NASA climate researcher James Hansen suggested in 2007 that the democratic process does not work. Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of deniers. Those who see climate change as a dire and urgent threat have some work to do to convince voters in the Western democracies to give up their way of life in exchange for unspecified benefits of a slightly less warm worldand thats assuming China India and over a billion people in Africa can be convinced not to try to pull themselves out of povertysomething that may only be done with greater use of fossil fuels. Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission. An example of the former can be seen in the new National Climate Assessment. The reports first chapter lists recent natural disasters citing this summers deadly Carr Fire in California as an example. But while the report seeks to link wildfire to climate change it glosses over the real reason fires have grown in intensity and size the 30 years of increased environmental restrictions on logging brush clearance and preventive burns that caused a massive and dangerous fuel buildupa problem that was predicted years ago and has nothing to do with global warming. The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg. Here were told that the U.S. economy will take a 10 hit by 2100 unless we reduce our carbon emissions. Two problems though the authors assume the worst case and least likely scenario with average temperatures more than 14 degrees Fahrenheit hotter by 2100 and they derive two thirds of their economic losses estimate by claiming a large amount of premature deaths due to the hotter temperatures. The latter claim is highly problematic as death rates in regions far hotter than in the U.S. arent meaningfully different when accounting for the standard of living. Why? People adapt rather easily. This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN but it is far from sound science or even good economics. The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation. And its these three things wealth growth and technology which allows humans to thrive on planet Earth not 240 per gallon fuel taxes imposed by an elite that cares not for the masses.	True	False	False	True	True
A climate scientist and a former government expert in the audience for Donald Trumps annual address to Congress said this will probably be the last administration that can forgo talking about climate change in the State of the Union speech. Trump did not mention rising temperatures or extreme weather although he did tout the countrys status as the top producer of oil and gas and boast about how quickly his officials have moved to cut regulations. Lisa Graumlich the dean of the environment college at the University of Washington attended the State of the Union address as a guest of the Washington congresswoman Pramila Jayapal. I have been doing research on climate change since the 1970s and it always seemed very far away in time and space. It was something that was going to happen when peoples grandchildren were alive. And that has changed Graumlich said. I dont think that future presidents will find themselves in this position because people are feeling the effects of climate change. Joel Clement who resigned from the interior department because he said the administration was muzzling scientists and ignoring climate change effects on vulnerable communities now works with the Union of Concerned Scientists. He was invited by the Maine congressman Chellie Pingree. The Trump administrations strategy is to ignore climate change and pretend it doesnt exist and pretend the science doesnt exist even if its coming from its own agencies Clement said. To not say anything about it is just ignorance and its irresponsible. In 10 years Clement said climate change will be central to all policy discussions as one of the top three or four issues in the world Clement said. Several other high profile climate advocates were invited by other Democrats protesting against Trumps doubts of the science and his rollbacks. The New York congressman Paul Tonko invited the League of Conservation Voters Gene Karpinski and the Maryland congressman Jamie Raskin brought along 350.orgs Bill McKibben. The Massachusetts senator Ed Markey attended with the head of the youth led Sunrise Movement Varshini Prakash who is calling for a Green New Deal to tackle inequality and quickly cut greenhouse gas emissions. Markey is expected to join Alexandria Ocasio Cortez this week in releasing expanded language on the high level goals of a Green New Deal. Even the Democratic rebuttal to Trumps speech by the ex Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams only mentioned climate change once in a list of priorities the US could pursue. However Bernie Sanders in his own response speech noted warnings in reports from the UNs Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. How can a president of the United States give a State of the Union speech and not mention not one word about climate change when the leading scientists of the world tell us that climate change is real that climate change is caused by human activity that climate change is already causing devastating harm in the United States Sanders said. Furthermore the scientists tell us we have a very short 12 years not a lot of time in order to transform our energy system away from fossil fuels. While very little of the primetime speeches focused on climate change Democrats will hold two hearings in the House on Wednesday about its effects.	False	False	False	True	False
One hardly knows where to begin in taking apart an argument that is literally filled with errors fallacies inconsistencies and non sequiturs. The essay by Nathan Schneider appearing in the May 31 issue of America titled Trumps war on the environment is a war on the young and the unborn makes the incredible case that withdrawing from the Paris agreement constitutes a war on future generations tantamount to genocide. No matter that historically the environmentalist movement has been closely allied with the population control movement literally waging a war on the unborn through its promotion of vigorous anti natality programs and abortion on demand. Mr. Schneider makes no effort to conceal his own apocalyptic vision of climate change. Without the Paris accord he claims mankind is a species embracing its own suicidal fragmentation. The climate will turn to chaos because Mr. Trump has issued the command that we are to proceed with the destruction of the planet. How a person can have such unshakable certainty in the outcome of complex future events is truly remarkable. The inability to entertain even the slightest doubt that carbon dioxide emissions will necessarily lead to climate Armageddon borders on meteorological Fundamentalism. To judge a particular accord as contrary to the nations interests on the other hand is hardly a war on the environment. Perhaps Mr. Schneider should consider what a war on the environment would actually look like. Pouring toxic waste into rivers filling the air with noxious fumes polluting forests and open countrysidethese are signs of a war on the environment and sadly they can still be found in certain nations. Carbon dioxide on the other hand is non toxic. It is fundamental to the life of plants and a necessary component of photosynthesis. Growers regularly pump CO2 into greenhouses raising levels to three times that of the natural environment to produce stronger healthier plants. Current levels of carbon dioxide concentration in the environment are substantially lower than they have been during earlier periods in the planets history. Without human intervention the concentration of CO2 has climbed as high as 7000 parts per million ppm whereas at present the concentration is just over 400 ppm. Some such as UN climate scientist Dr. Indur Goklany who has previously represented the United States on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC have defended rising CO2 levels as a good thing for humanity. Goklany has argued that the rising level of carbon dioxide in the earths atmosphere is currently net beneficial for both humanity and the biosphere generally. The benefits are real whereas the costs of warming are uncertain he said. During his presidential campaign Donald Trump promised Americans that if elected he would make the United States energy independent and get out of the Paris climate deal. The fact that a president keeps his promises is usually considered a good thing. In point of fact Mr. Schneiders issue isnt just with the president it is with the nation that elected him. According to a recent study by the Pew Research Center a majority of Americans dont believe in manmade global warming. That doesnt put them at war with the environment and much less at war with the young and the unborn. Maybe they just want an America that is able to think and act for itself rather than one that bows to ever fad espoused by globalist elites.	True	True	False	True	False
Forget the Golden State. California should be called the Smoggy State. Eight of the USA's 10most polluted cities in terms of ozone pollution are in California according to the American Lung Association's annual State of the Air report released Wednesday. The Los AngelesLong Beach area took the dubious distinction of being the nation's most ozone polluted cityas it has for nearly the entire 19 year history of the report. Overall the report said about133 million Americans more than four of 10 live with unhealthful levels of air pollution placing them at risk for premature death and other serious health effects such as lung cancer asthma attacks cardiovascular damage and developmental and reproductive harm. We still have a lot to do in this country to clean up air pollution said Lyndsay Moseley Alexander director of the Association's Healthy Air Campaign. The report looked at pollution levels from 2014 to 2016. Ozone pollution was worse overall in this report than it was in last year's report. Bakersfield Calif. wasin second place for ozone pollution. Other California cities on the list include Fresno Sacramento and San Diego. The only non California metro areas in the top 10 list were Phoenix and New York City. Of the 10 most polluted cities seven cities did worse in this year's report including Los Angeles and the New York City metro area. More President Trump directs EPA to ease air quality rules he says suffocates industry Near record setting heat from our changing climate has resulted in dangerous levels of ozone in many cities across the country making ozone an urgent health threat for millions of Americans Lung Association President and CEO Harold P. Wimmersaid. Smog forms on warm sunny days and is made worse fromchemicals that exit vehicle tailpipes and from power plant and industrial smokestacks.Warmer temperatures make ozone more likely to form. This adds to the evidence that a changing climate makes it harder to reduce ozone pollution and protect human health Alexandersaid Bakersfield took the top spot in a list of cities with another variety of air pollution small particulate matter aka soot.Increased heat changes in climate patterns drought and wildfires many related to climate change contributed to the high number of days with unhealthy particulate matter. SinceCalifornia is known for its strict environmental regulations why are so many cities from the state typically on this list?It's because the state would be far worse off without its strict laws on tailpipe pollution and eliminating coal fired power plants. California has done more than any other state to counteract air pollution the Lung Association said. With this report the Lung Association also calls out Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency EPA for ongoing threats to the nations air quality including steps to roll back or weaken enforcement of the Clean Air Act. EPA administrator Scott Pruitt hastaken many steps to roll back or put in loopholes to the Clean Air Act Alexander said adding thattheassociation is concerned and we will continueto fight forhealthy air she said. Some good news in the report was that particulate pollution generally continued to improve in 2014 16 the report said. This was true for both short term particulate pollution and for year round particulate pollution. For year round particle pollution Fairbanks Alaska was the most polluted city. TheLung Association also lists the nation's cleanest cities meaning ones that experience no high ozone or high particulate pollution days. The nation's cleanest cities are Bellingham Wash. Burlington Vt. Casper Wyo. Honolulu Melbourne Fla. and Wilmington N.C.	False	True	False	True	False
Humans are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of species not seen since the demise of the dinosaurs British scientists warned. Man made global change is threatening the diversity of different creatures that have taken millennia to evolve to live in niche habitats. Creatures that have moved into delicate ecosystems such as coral reefs often live in symbiosis with others and are the slowest to recover their diversity if damaged. But global warming and rising sea levels threatened to wipe out many species that cannot adapt to change quickly enough in a blink of an eye. In particular freshwater habitats are teeming with diverse birds and mammals but they are often form isolated pockets which are vulnerable to sudden change. Professor of Evolutionary Paleobiology Matthew Wills at the Milner Centre for Evolution at the University of Bath said We are sleepwalking into a mass extinction of a magnitude unparalleled since the asteroid impact that wiped out the dinosaurs. Astonishingly we know remarkably little about the physical and biological forces that shape patterns of diversity on a global scale. For example why are there over a million species of insects but only 32 species in their immediate sister group the little known remipedes? Diversity takes millions of years to evolve but can be damaged in the blink of an eye. We are already losing diversity that has never even been documented so it's vitally important to understand the mechanisms that drive evolution into new species. The scientists looked at how the humble caridean shrimp has evolved and diversified since it first appeared in the Lower Jurassic. There are now around 3500 species worldwide living in salt and fresh water habitats and are a vital component of the marine food chain and an important contribution to fisheries worldwide. Research Fellow Dr Katie Davis an evolutionary palaeobiologist at the University of York explained Understanding the processes that shaped the strikingly irregular distribution of species richness across the Tree of Life is a major research agenda. Changes in ecology may go some way to explain the often strongly asymmetrical fates of sister clades and we test this in the caridean shrimps. There are depending upon estimates between two and 50 million extant species of animals Metazoa all derived from a single common ancestral species that lived some 650 million years ago. Net rates of speciation therefore exceed rates of extinction but the balance of these processes varies greatly both between clades and throughout geological time. The scientists examined the patterns of diversity change across the crustaceans's evolutionary tree. By time calibrating the largest ever evolutionary tree for carideans against both fossil and molecular dates it was possible to explore where rates of diversification sped up and slowed down over the last 200 million years. They found the shrimp have independently transitioned from marine to freshwater habitats repeatedly creating much richer pockets of biodiversity. The relative isolation of lakes and rivers appear to increase the diversity of species in a similar way to Darwin's finches on island chains. But rising sea levels caused by climate change could put these pockets at risk disrupting these freshwater distributions and leading to extinctions as a result. By contrast many marine shrimp live in close symbiotic associations with a variety of other animals including corals and sponges which appears to have slowed their diversification rate. Symbioses are most common in shallow reef settings among the most diverse but notoriously delicately balanced and threatened marine ecosystems. The researchers said lower rates of diversification mean it will take longer for carideans to recover from the extinctions that are already inevitably underway. Co author Sammy de Grave head of research at the Oxford University Museum added The study was published in the journal Communications Biology.	False	False	False	False	False
One of the biggest legal battles over climate change is now in limbo pending a decision from the Supreme Courts chief justice who last week took the odd step of halting the lawsuit to consider a stay. The court is expected to rule Friday on whether the case which was expected to go to trial Monday can proceed. The suit Juliana v. US also known as the childrens climate lawsuit was first filed in 2015 and now includes 21 plaintiffs between the ages of 11 and 22 including Sophie Kivlehan 20 the granddaughter of the famed climate scientist James Hansen. The case argues that the US government undertook policies that contributed to climate change thereby causing irreparable harm to young people and denying them a safe climate. As relief they want the government to pursue policies to keep warming in check. The trial was supposed to begin at the United States District Court in Oregon on October 29. But last week the defendant the US government asked for a stay of the case arguing the costs of litigation would put an undue burden on it. Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts granted a temporary stay and halted discovery until Wednesday to allow the plaintiffs to respond. The district court then vacated the case pending a decision from the high court. Working over the weekend the children and their lawyers filed a 103 page brief on Monday in hopes of receiving a decision from the Chief Justice before the weeks end. Now the case is back at the Supreme Court and what happens next is unclear including whether the other justices on the bench will weigh in. Several legal analysts told Vox it is extremely unusual for the Supreme Court to step in to block a legal proceeding in a lower court. Appeals from the District Court in Oregon are almost always handled by the 9th Circuit which has already declined to block the lawsuit. And one of the only other times Supreme Court has done something like this was also related to climate change. In 2016 the court stayed the Obama administrations Clean Power Plan to limit greenhouse gases from power plants pending ongoing lawsuits from states suing to block the rule from going into effect. But then the childrens lawsuit is an unusual case. The plaintiffs essentially are arguing that a safe climate is a civil right so the implications for climate change policy are huge. Though the case is in uncharted legal territory it has survived several legal challenges and motions to dismiss and lower federal courts have allowed it to proceed. Ann Carlson a professor of environmental law at the University of California Los Angeles said that the Supreme Court stepping in on a case like this strongly suggests theres something there that piques the courts interest. Its certainly a signal that the court is uncomfortable with the underlying legal theory of the Juliana case Carlson said. The federal government under Presidents Barack Obama and Donald Trump has argued the case has no merit and repeatedly sought to have it dismissed. Asked for comment the Department of Justice pointed to comments made by Jeffrey Wood a political appointee at the DOJ handling environmental cases who spoke about the Juliana case at a law conference last week. He said that the purported constitutional right that they assert simply does not exist and that the Juliana lawsuit has no legal basis. In our view the Oregon lawsuit is an unconstitutional attempt to use a single court to control the entire nations energy and climate policy Wood said adding the plaintiffs in Oregon are ignoring the fact that clean and responsible production and use of fossil fuels remains vital to the health and well being of the American people. For climate activists old and young the courts have become a last resort for pushing governments and businesses to reduce greenhouse gas emissions especially with an executive branch thats still denying climate change exists and a gridlocked Congress. There are also several ongoing climate change lawsuits filed by cities counties and a state against oil companies though the pivot points are different. The local governments are citing nuisance statutes and seeking money from oil companies to pay for damages caused by climate change whereas the childrens case is trying to force the government to enact policies to curb greenhouse gas emissions. But the prospects for the childrens climate lawsuit to succeed appear dim first because the courts tend to give wide latitude to the executive branch in these cases and second because the Supreme Courts newest Justice Brett Kavanaugh is much more skeptical of environmental regulations than his predecessor. This is just the beginning of what were likely to see from a Court that doesnt have Justice Kennedy on it anymore Carlson said.	False	False	False	False	False
CNN Republican Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis appointed the state's first chief science officer on Monday marking what he called the state's commitment to science based solutions. DeSantis appointed Thomas Frazer a biologist who has been director of the University of Florida's School of Natural Resources and Environment since 2012 and previously worked as acting director of the UF Water Institute In the new position he will coordinate Florida's research data and scientific work and make sure officials have the scientific analysis they need to tackle the state's environmental problems. Frazer's research has looked at pollution's effects on water. He's also worked on research involving climate change. He's been on the faculty advisory committee with the UF Climate Institute and served as chairman of the Climate Science Faculty Committee. Climate change will be a part of his office's mission. We have to look at the facts of what is going on in the environment and can we bring science to bear on those changes happening now and in the future? Frazer said. Asked whether he thought climate change was a threat to Florida DeSantis said the issue was politicized but noted that he considers sea level rise a serious threat. My environmental policy is just to do things that benefit Floridians. And the idea that you're signing up for some type of agenda I don't want to ... send a signal that that's what I'm doing because I'm not doing that DeSantis said . This is what we're going to do. We're going to do what works. DeSantis said the appointment keeps with his promise to make sound science a Florida priority. As one of Florida's leading environmental researchers Dr. Frazer understands the unique water issues facing our state and the actions we must take to solve them he said Monday. Since day one my administration has been laser focused on addressing our pressing environmental challenges. On January 10 DeSantis signed an Executive Order that pledged to secure 2.5 billion over the next four years to restore the Everglades. It created the Blue Green Algae Task Force and promised to work with local communities to invest in green infrastructure. It also created the chief science officer position. Frazer will have his work cut out for him. In July Scott declared a state of emergency for several counties to help local governments deal with an unprecedented toxic algal bloom that killed thousands of marine animals including dolphins and manatees. The bloom which affected more than 100 miles of Florida shoreline also sent people to the doctor with respiratory problems and eye issues. below sea level by 2100 Sea level rise alone is projected to outpace the global average for Southeast Florida. The region could see nearly a foot more of water in the short term. There's also a chance that more than 346 billion in property value will bebelow sea level by 2100 studies show Frazer said he's honored by the appointment. Our environment and waterways make Florida unique he said. I look forward to working with the governor and the Department of Environmental Protection on ways we can use sound science and research to improve our state's water quality and protect the environment.	False	False	False	False	False
More than 380 people have been confirmed dead after a tsunami triggered by a magnitude 7.5 earthquake hit an Indonesian city on Friday. Waves up to 3m 10ft high swept through Palu on Sulawesi island. Video on social media shows people screaming and fleeing in panic and a mosque among the buildings damaged. Strong aftershocks rocked the city on Saturday. Thousands of homes have collapsed along with hospitals hotels and a shopping centre. Rescue efforts are under way though hampered by a major power cut. The main road to Palu has been blocked due to a landslide and a key bridge is out of action. Indonesia's disaster agency said at least 384 people had been killed but the number is expected to rise. At least 540 have been injured and 29 are listed as missing. Many bodies were found along the shoreline because of the tsunami but the numbers are still unknown Sutopo Purwo Nugroho a spokesman for the agency told Reuters. When the threat arose yesterday people were still doing their activities on the beach and did not immediately run and they became victims he told a news briefing. The tsunami didn't come by itself it dragged cars logs houses it hit everything on land. Some survived by climbing 6m 18ft trees to escape the huge waves the spokesman said. A less powerful quake earlier on Friday had killed at least one person and injured at least 10 in the smaller fishing town of Donggala. In Palu hundreds of people had been preparing for a beach festival that was due to start on Friday night. The city's main hospital was damaged in the quake and TV footage showed dozens of injured people being treated outside in makeshift medical tents. Palu and Donggala are home to more than 600000 people. President Joko Widodo said troops were en route to the area to reinforce rescue teams and help retrieve bodies. The main airport in Palu has been closed since the tsunami hit. A minister said the runway had been damaged but that it was hoped helicopters would still be able to land. The country's military is sending cargo planes of relief aid from the capital Jakarta. Officials are urging locals not to enter their homes and to sleep away from buildings due to the risk of aftershocks. The earthquake hit just off central Sulawesi at a depth of 10km 6.2 miles just before 1800 on Friday 1000 GMT the US Geological Survey said. A tsunami warning was issued but lifted within the hour. Indonesia's meteorological agency has been criticised for its response but officials said the waves struck while the warning was in place. Dramatic video of the tsunami hitting Palu shows the high waves sweeping away several buildings and then the large tilted mosque in the town about 80km from the quake's epicentre. The situation is chaotic people are running on the streets and buildings collapsed. There is a ship washed ashore said Dwikorita Karnawati head of Indonesia's meteorology and geophysics agency. A 2004 tsunami triggered by an earthquake off the Indonesian island of Sumatra killed 226000 across the Indian Ocean including more than 120000 in Indonesia. Indonesia is prone to earthquakes because it lies on the Ring of Fire the line of frequent quakes and volcanic eruptions that circles virtually the entire Pacific rim. More than half of the world's active volcanoes above sea level are part of the ring. Just last month a series of deadly earthquakes struck the Indonesian island of Lombok. The biggest on 5 August killed more than 460 people. Have you been affected by the earthquake? If it is safe to do so share your experience by emailing haveyoursay Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways	False	False	False	False	False
BISMARCK N.D. AP A federal judge ruled Wednesday that the Dakota Access oil pipeline can continue operating while a study is completed to assess its environmental impact on an American Indian tribe. U.S. District Judge James Boasbergs decision will come as a blow to the Standing Rock Sioux who have argued that an oil spill from the pipeline under Lake Oahe from which the tribe draws its water could have a detrimental effect on the tribal community. Todays decision is a disappointing continuation of a historic pattern Other people get all the profits and the tribes get all the risk and harm said Jan Hasselman an Earthjustice attorney representing the tribe in an ongoing federal lawsuit through which Standing Rock and three other tribes still hope to shut down the pipeline. Boasberg found that it is likely the Army Corps of Engineers will be able to justify previous decisions made while permitting the pipeline. The Corps must simply connect the dots he said. This then is not a case in which the agency must redo its analysis from the ground up. Boasberg also acknowledged that shutting down the pipeline would disrupt the energy industry but said it wasnt a major factor in his decision. The 3.8 billion pipeline built by Texas based Energy Transfer Partners has been operating since June 1 moving oil from North Dakota through South Dakota and Iowa to a distribution point in Illinois. From there it can be shipped to the Gulf Coast and potentially lucrative markets abroad. It has the capacity to move half of the oil produced daily in North Dakota the nations second leading producer behind Texas. Energy industry officials applauded Boasbergs ruling with North Dakota Petroleum Council President Ron Ness calling the pipeline a critical part of American energy infrastructure. The Justice Department declined comment on behalf of the Corps. President Donald Trump had pushed for the pipelines completion and the Corps dropped a plan to conduct more environmental study after he took office. Boasberg ruled on June 14 that the Corps largely complied with environmental law but he ordered the agency to reconsider certain areas of its analysis and took arguments on whether to shut down the 1200 mile 1930 kilometer pipeline while the work is done. Boasberg in June said the Corps didnt adequately consider how an oil spill under the Lake Oahe reservoir on the Missouri River in the Dakotas might affect the Standing Rock Sioux. The tribe is among four that have challenged the pipeline in court over environmental fears that ETP says are unfounded. The judge said the Corps also didnt adequately study how the pipeline might disproportionately affect the tribal community a concept known as environmental justice. That aims to ensure development projects arent built in areas where minority populations might not have the resources to defend their rights. In its analysis of the Missouri River crossing the Corps studied the mostly white demographics in a half mile 0.8 kilometer radius which the agency maintains is standard. But if the agency had gone an additional 88 yards 80 meters about the length of a football field the study would have included the Standing Rock Reservation. Boasberg in his ruling Wednesday said that issue was a closer call than the others but that it still did not justify shutting down the pipeline. He noted that the tribes water intake has been moved about 50 miles 80 kilometers downstream since pipeline construction began and said an alternative river crossing near Bismarck that had been studied and rejected would pass much closer to a drinking water intake that serve tens of thousands more people. Risks presented to this tenfold increase in population must of course be considered the judge said. Corps attorneys said the agency expects to be able by next spring to substantiate its earlier determination that the pipeline poses no significant environmental threats. ETP maintained that a shutdown would cost it 90 million monthly and significantly disrupt the broader energy industry as well as state and local tax revenue. The North Dakota Pipeline Authority this week said that the Dakota Access pipeline boosted the states tax revenues by about 19 million in its first three months of operation. Tribal attorneys argued that ETP had overstated the potential effects of a shutdown and Boasberg acknowledged some cause for skepticism regarding ETPs predictions. Tribal attorneys also said a shutdown would create incentive for the Corps to take the review seriously. The tribes had proposed a fallback plan if Boasberg decided against a shutdown. It includes increased public reporting of pipeline issues such as repairs and implementation of a spill response plan including equipment staging at Lake Oahe. Boasberg said he will hear arguments on the matter. He scheduled a status conference for Oct. 18.	False	False	False	False	False
Deforestation of Brazil's Amazon rainforest increased by 29.5 in 12 months the highest rate since 2008 the country's space agency reports. The rainforest lost 9762 sq km 3769 sq miles of its vegetation between August 2018 and July 2019 Inpe says. Far right President Jair Bolsonaro has in the past questioned the accuracy of data provided by Inpe. Scientists say the Amazon has suffered losses at an accelerated rate since Mr Bolsonaro took office in January. They say the president favours development over conservation. Who is Brazil's new leader Jair Bolsonaro? Mr Bolsonaro who in July dismissed a similar Inpe report as flawed has not commented on the latest data. As the largest rainforest in the world the Amazon is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming. Over the past decade previous governments in Brazil had managed to reduce deforestation with concerted action by federal agencies and a system of fines. But Mr Bolsonaro and his ministers have criticised the penalties and overseen a dramatic fall in confiscations of timber and convictions for environmental crimes.	False	False	False	False	False
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke let the mask slip this week turning the subtext of his term in office backing fossil fuels into the headline as he spoke to a friendly audience. On Tuesday Zinke gave the keynote address at the Louisiana Oil and Gas Associations fall meeting in Lafayette Louisiana. He told the conference over lunch our government should work for you according to organizers You can debate what Zinke meant by work for you but many heard it as a pledge of allegiance to the industry. And according to the Louisiana Oil and Gas Association the industry members in the room were thrilled with the pledge giving Zinke a standing ovation. An organizer told me none of the speeches at the event were recorded. However environmental activists and some lawmakers were appalled by the statement. And then that evening Zinkes official Twitter account went into damage control mode implying the message was meant for a broader audience rather than just the industries hes supposed to regulate. But Zinke has said pretty much the same thing before. In March he told an energy industry conference Interior should not be in the business of being an adversary. We should be in the business of being a partner. For the record the Interior Departments job is to manage about 75 percent of federal public land which amounts to about one fifth of the total area of the United States. This means conservation preserving culture and facilitating recreation. It also entails leasing rights to mining drilling grazing and logging. However it does not mean that the agency needs to advance the fossil fuel industrys interests certainly not at the expense of the environment. But the Interior Department under Zinke has been pushing much harder to open up public lands to private companies while drastically rolling back its environmental responsibilities. Our mandate is multiple use of public lands and multiple use also includes the development of natural resources as we seek to leverage American energy for American strength Zinke wrote in the departments 2018 22 strategic plan. One place weve seen Zinke pick sides is in his response to Californias record wildfires. Rather than acknowledging the role of climate change in increasing fire risks he blamed environmental terrorist groups while calling for more private logging on public lands. Zinkes words have been loud but his actions have been even louder. Under Zinke weve seen the largest rollback of federal land protections in US history. He also opened nearly all US coastal waters to offshore oil and gas drilling preparing for the largest lease sale in US history. The National Park Service which is part of the Interior Department proposed more than doubling national park entrance fees before settling on increases of 5 to 10. The Bureau of Land Management also part of the Interior Department announced this week it was revising its rules on methane emissions from gas drilling on public lands. Interior is also pushing for more roads in wilderness areas dialing back conservation plans for wildlife and selling leases for Arctic oil and gas drilling. The agency canceled a study looking into the health impacts of coal mining and dismissed violations committed by coal companies. Taken together its pretty clear who Zinke is working for. However the Trump administration has the odd habit of stumbling over itself. President Donald Trumps trade war is already threatening to undo gains for the fossil fuel industry as China readies tariffs on US energy. Zinke himself tendencies exhibited by former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt that have invited scrutiny from lawmakers. Hes opaque with his schedule obscuring his dealings with the energy industry. He took a 12000 flight on an oil executives charter plane. He was involved in a land deal with the chair of Halliburton which may have violated conflict of interest rules. The Government Accountability Office had to end a probe in June into whether Zinke threatened Sen. Lisa Murkowski R AK over her vote on Obamacare because the Interior Department didnt cooperate. He also has his office fly a secretarial flag when hes in the building and minted his own challenge coin. With Pruitt no longer sucking the oxygen out of the room congressional Democrats are now eyeing Zinke and have promised more investigations of his conduct should they take control of the House in the fall. Zinke is one the most ethically challenged members of the Cabinet and maybe one of the most ethically challenged secretaries of the Interior weve had in living memory Rep. Gerry Connolly D VA who could chair the House Oversight Government Operations Subcommittee if Democrats win in November told Politico this week. Theres rich material here to look into his behavior and his fitness for continued service in the office.	False	False	False	False	False
Environmental Protection Agency EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt told business advocates the agency will reconsider a rule utilities worry could force more coal fired power plants to close. I have decided that it is appropriate and in the public interest to reconsider the rule Pruitt wrote in a letter sent Wednesday to counsel for a utility group and officials at the U.S. Small Business Administration SBA. The EPA is acting promptly to issue an administrative stay of the compliance dates in the rule that have not yet passed pending judicial review Pruitt wrote regarding an EPA regulation on liquid waste from coal plants. Pruitt was responding to a petition sent by the Utility Water Action Group UWAG urging the Trump administration to rescind its Effluent Limitations Guidelines for coal fired power plants. UWAG argues the regulation will cause negative impacts on jobs due to the excessive costs of compliance which were grossly underestimated by EPA and regulatory burdens forcing plant closures. UWAG said EPA underestimated the rules costs and withheld records about the rulemaking from utilities who would have to comply with the rule which the agency estimates could cost up to 2.5 billion a year. To an unprecedented extent the Agency withheld fundamental information purporting to justify the Rule UWAG argued adding that included pages of the record that demonstrably were not entitled to confidential treatment. The EPA said in legal filings it withheld records to protect confidential business information. Pruitt said EPA would reconsider the ELG rule based on UWAGs concerns. Its the latest move by the Trump administration to ease the regulatory burden on the coal industry. President Donald Trump promised to lessen regulations on coal mines to put miners back to work. Trump has already signed executive orders to rescind EPA and Interior Department regulations on coal production and power generation. Most recently Trump ordered the EPA to review the Clean Power Plan which limits carbon dioxide emissions from new and existing power plants. That rule was also expected to force more coal plants to prematurely shutdown. Environmentalists were obviously outraged by Pruitts decision. Trumps attempt to halt these clean water protections for mercury lead and arsenic from coal power plants is dangerous and irresponsible said Mary Anne Hitt the director of the Sierra Clubs Beyond Coal campaign. The Obama administration finalized the ELG rule in 2015 and it went into effect in January 2016. The rule requires coal plants to install new equipment to curb pollution from wastewater streams. Utilities including UWAG took EPA to court to have the rule overturned. UWAG and others argued the rule violated the Clean Water Act and Administrative Procedures Act. Aside from arguing EPA improperly withheld data on how they came up with the rule plaintiffs argued the agency didnt perform proper testing to see if requiring coal plants to install new equipment would meet federal pollution guidelines. Environmentalists fought to keep the rule in place and Pruitt can expect legal challenges if EPA tries to repeal the ELG rule. Trump claimed he wanted EPA to go back to basics and focus on clean air and water in his Administration but one of the first actions by his EPA Administrator is an attempt to gut an important water pollution safeguard Hitt said. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	False	False	False	False	False
Just a few hours before the second round of 2020 Democratic presidential contenders are set to face off dozens of local activists in Miami Florida held an Underwater Climate Rally calling for more discussion about climate change at the second Democratic debate. A coalition of local environmental groups organized the march to the Arsht Center in Miami where this round of debates is being held with marchers sporting signs calling for a specific climate change debate and pushing for the Green New Deal. Melissa Baldwin co organizer of Miami Climate Month which organized the rally says from the moment she and her fellow organizers found out the first debate would be in Miami they wanted to put a spotlight on climate change because you cant come to Miami without talking about climate change. Climate change and fossil fuels have already disturbed the daily lives of Floridians. Sea level rise and warming temperatures threaten cities like Miami. Kim Ross ReThink Energy Florida leader resident witnessed people in her communityinTallahasseefeeling helpless after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster which damaged Gulf Coast ecosystems. This isnt something in the future Ross says. This is something thats happening now and needs to be addressed now. At the first 2020 Democratic debate on Wednesday night Democrats spent less than 10 minutes talking about climate change. Though not an extensive conversation that was still more time spent talkingabout climate change than in all of threedebates combined between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump in 2016. Baldwin tells Mother Jones that climate and energy policy needs a prolonged conversation at every debate because climate change is an issue that affects every other issue agriculture the economy including tourism. She recalls a friend saying Who wants to go to Disney when its 105 degrees outside?	False	False	False	False	False
The United States submitted a formal notification that it will withdraw from the Paris climate agreement Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced Monday a move that has been widely expected since President Trump announced his intention to do so in 2017. The climate agreement which went into force Nov. 4 2016 committed countries that signed the measure to take certain voluntary steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The agreement was not legally enforceable and countries set their own emissions targets. The accord banned countries from announcing their intent to withdraw in its first three years meaning Monday was the first day the U.S. was allowed to submit its intent to leave the agreement since it went into force in 2016. President Trump made the decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement because of the unfair economic burden imposed on American workers businesses and taxpayers by U.S. pledges made under the Agreement Pompeo said in a statement. The United States has reduced all types of emissions even as we grow our economy and ensure our citizens access to affordable energy. LEONARDO DICAPRIO PRAISES GRETA THUNBERG AS 'A LEADER OF OUR TIME' Trump has previously said that the Paris climate agreement harms the U.S. economy and would hurt American jobs if left to stand. Compliance with the terms of the Paris accord and the onerous energy restrictions it has placed on the United States could cost America as much as 2.7 million lost jobs by 2025 according to the National Economic Research Associates Trump said in the Rose Garden in 2017 when he announced plans to remove the U.S. from the accord. This includes 440000 fewer manufacturing jobs not what we need believe me this is not what we need including automobile jobs and the further decimation of vital American industries on which countless communities rely. They rely for so much and we would be giving them so little. Some opponents of the agreement have noted that countries such as Russia and China were not affected as significantly by the accord as the United States and pointed out the unencouraging results of the Kyoto Protocol raising questions about whether the Paris agreement would reduce global greenhouse gas emissions at all. GRETA THUNBERG TURNS DOWN ENVIRONMENTAL PRIZE SAYS 'CLIMATE MOVEMENT DOES NOT NEED ANY MORE AWARDS' Half of the countries that were legally bound to the Kyoto Protocol treaty failed to adhere to their pledges and the host country of Japan even increased their carbon emissions Sen. Jim Inhofe R Okla. said as the Paris climate agreement was being debated in 2016. Now we find ourselves celebrating an agreement where the worlds largest carbon emitter China is permitted to increase their emissions until 2025 and to continue bringing a coal fired power plant online every 10 days. We even turn a blind eye to the fact that China lied about its carbon emissions when it first came to the table with its pledge last year. Others however see America backing out of the international pact to limit greenhouse gas emissions as an abdication of global leadership and denial of basic climate science. By withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement to double down on a coal fossil fuel energy agenda Trump has engaged in a unilateral disarmament in the economic arms race that is the transition to clean energy said Michael Mann a climate scientist and professor at Penn State University. The challenge of averting dangerous and irreversible climate change and massive coastal inundation devastating floods and droughts is that much more an uphill climb with Trump's pullout from the Paris agreement. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In his statement Monday however Pompeo maintained that the United States was on the right track both economically and environmentally. Our results speak for themselves he wrote. U.S. emissions of criteria air pollutants that impact human health and the environment declined by 74 percent between 1970 and 2018. U.S. net greenhouse gas emissions dropped 13 percent from 2005 2017 even as our economy grew over 19 percent.	False	False	False	False	False
Adopting more active forest management policies such as increased thinning of trees and conducting controlled burns will help mitigate damage from future wildfires the Los Angeles Times editorial board writes. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke began advocating similar policy prescriptions earlier in 2018 after President Donald Trump blamed Californias bad environmental laws for creating a wildfire prone environment.RELATED Trump Administration Is Taking Its Fight Against Bad Environmental Laws Straight To California California forests have grown drier and less healthy from overcrowded trees infestations of bark beetles and the effects of climate change the LA Timeswrites. Californias restrictions on active forest management have contributed to the poor and worsening conditions of the forests allowing them to grow uninhibited while suppressing fires that would normally naturally control the forests growth. Fire is not necessarily bad for forests. California used to burn with regularity and low intensity fires are vital in some ecosystems to clear excess brush and small trees from the landscape the editorial board writes. But theres been a change in fire behavior over the last century as the state and federal government began dousing the blazes. Decades of fire suppression have allowed forests to grow dense with trees. Combined with drought insect infestations and the stress of a warming climate those management practices have led to more intense and destructive fires that are more dangerous to people living near the forests and more damaging to air quality the op ed continues. Californias environmental laws entered the national spotlight in early August when Trumpblamedthem for the severity of the wildfires that were ravaging the state. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke was soon at the front of the administrations push for California to begin adopting more active land management policies. Zinke traveled to California to see the damage from the fires and meet with local officials and firefighters Aug. 13. Zinke ramped up calls for greater forest thinning while also dismissing the idea that climate change is playing a significant factor in the wildfires intensity.RELATED Ryan Zinke Shifts The Wildfire Debate From Global Warming To Anti Logging Environmental Terrorists Ive heard the climate change argument back and forth Zinke told Sacramento based KCRA. This has nothing to do with climate change. This has to do with active forest management. California Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown partnered with state lawmakers to introduce changes to the states policies. The bill would grant 1 billion toward forest thinning and ease regulations on cutting trees on private property according to the LA Times.	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON AP Democrats including Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez of New York are calling for a Green New Deal intended to transform the U.S. economy to combat climate change and create thousands of jobs in renewable energy. The freshman lawmaker and veteran Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts are teaming up on the plan which aims to eliminate the U.S. carbon footprint by 2030. A joint resolution drafted by Ocasio Cortez and Markey sets a goal to meet 100 percent of the power demand in the United States through clean renewable and zero emission energy sources including dramatic increases in wind and solar power. A news conference at the Capitol is set for Thursday the day they introduce the resolution. While setting lofty goals the plan does not explicitly call for eliminating the use of fossil fuels such as oil and natural gas a nod to pragmatism that may disappoint some of Ocasio Cortezs strongest supporters. Even so their Green New Deal goes far beyond the Clean Power Plan proposed by President Barack Obama. President Donald Trump has scrapped Obamas plan which imposed emissions limits on coal fired power plants as a job killer. The Democrats are likely to meet resistance to their proposal in Congress especially in the Republican controlled Senate. Trump who has expressed doubts about climate change also is likely to oppose it. The resolution marks the first time Ocasio Cortez and other lawmakers have attached legislative language onto the Green New Deal a concept that until now has been largely undefined other than as a call for urgent action to head off catastrophic climate change and create jobs. Several Democratic presidential hopefuls have embraced the idea of a Green New Deal without saying exactly what it means. Ocasio Cortez said in a statement that the plan will create unprecedented levels of prosperity and wealth for all while ensuring economic and environmental justice and security. She calls for a World War II scale mobilization that includes high quality education and health care clean air and water and safe affordable housing. Answering critics who call the plan unrealistic Ocasio Cortez says that when President John F. Kennedy wanted to go to the moon by the end of the 1960s people said it was impossible. She also cites Franklin D. Roosevelts New Deal Lyndon B. Johnsons Great Society and the interstate highway system begun under Dwight D. Eisenhower as examples of American know how and capability. While focusing on renewable energy Ocasio Cortez said the plan would include existing nuclear power plants but block new nuclear plants. Nuclear power does not emit greenhouse gases which contribute to global warming. The resolution does not include a price tag but some Republicans predict it would cost in the trillions of dollars. They denounced the plan at House hearings on climate change on Wednesday. The Green New Deal would be paid for the same way we paid for the original New Deal World War II the bank bailouts tax cuts for the rich and decades of war with public money appropriated by Congress Ocasio Cortez said. Government can take an equity stake in Green New Deal projects so the public gets a return on its investment she said.	False	False	False	False	False
I actually did feel there was a real chance that he might come to his senses and stay in the Paris Agreement said Gore who has spent years in pursuit of action on climate change and on Tuesday joined CNN for a town hall moderated by Anderson Cooper. Gore met with Trump after the 2016 election at the invitation of Ivanka Trump and he spoke again with the President by phone in early May. But Gore's and Ivanka's influence clearly was not enough. After some delay Trump announced in the Rose Garden in June that he intended to pull the United States out of the climate agreement. Gore declined to get into the details of his private conversations with Trump but said those conversations had left him with reason to believe Trump would keep the United States in the agreement but added that thankfully his worst fears about the withdrawal were not realized. I was worried that other countries might use it as an excuse to pull out themselves Gore said. But I was gratified when the next day the entire rest of the world doubled down on the commitment to meet the terms of the Paris Agreement and then in this country so many governors and mayors and business leaders said 'We're still in.' Gore said that even with Trump's decision the United States could still manage to meet its own commitments under the Paris Agreement. The town hall featured people across the country who challenged Gore on the issue or asked his thoughts. Mayor James Eskridge of Tangier Island Virginia said his home town needed a sea wall to fight erosion but claimed sea level rise was not affecting them. I'm not a scientist but I'm a keen observer Eskridge said. And if sea level rise is occurring why am I not seeing signs of it? Earth to warm 2 degrees Celsius by the end of this century studies say Gore said he was aware of the town's situation and said the town was losing ground to rising seas. Tangier Island gained national prominence after Trump called Eskridge in response to a CNN piece on the town. Arguments about science aren't necessarily going to be of any comfort to you Gore said. Won't necessarily do you any good for me to tell you that the scientists do say the sea level is rising in the Chesapeake Bay and that you've lost about two thirds of your island already. Eskridge stood by his claim saying If I see sea level rise occurring I'll shout it from the house top. ... I'm just not seeing it. Gore said it was hard to translate what scientists said into something readily observable and believable. I try every day to figure out ways to do that he said. Gore warned there could be visible signs of a changing climate including stronger hurricanes due to rising ocean temperatures. As the oceans get warmer these ocean based storms get a lot stronger he said. There may not be more hurricanes but the ones that do come are on average likely to be much stronger. However Gore insisted that there is still time to act despite challenges that may lie ahead in adapting to what we can't avoid. We still have the ability to slow it down. We have the ability to prevent even worse sea level rise and and even worse catastrophes that are also caused by the climate crisis Gore said.	False	False	False	False	False
The pictures are striking dozens of whales lie stranded on an idyllic beach in a remote part of New Zealand. The group were found by a walker on Stewart Island earlier this week. And just a few days later a further 51 pilot whales died after becoming stranded on a beach on the Chatham Islands. While whale strandings are not uncommon they usually involve just a single animal rather than a whole group. The recent flurry of mass strandings has brought a renewed focus on the mysterious and rare phenomenon. So why does it happen? While the exact reasons remain unclear experts say many different factors could play a part. Quite often animals that turn up on a beach are getting exhausted they're malnourished or they haven't eaten because they're ill says Dr Simon Ingram a Professor of Marine Conservation at the University of Plymouth. They can be in the final stages of being ill or die at sea and end up getting washed up on a beach he adds. But Dr Ingram says that sickness or injury mainly plays a part when a single animal is found stranded. The trouble is that in a huge number of animals it's quite likely that some of them are going to be ill anyway he explains. It's also true that there have been cases where groups of healthy whales have ended up getting stranded. So what could be behind these cases? Some experts say that certain aspects of the coastline or sea bed can disorientate whales especially if they roam outside of their usual habitat. Some places like the tip of New Zealand are hotspots for stranding says Dr Ingram. Sometimes this is due to geographic features of the coastline. If there's a feature like a peninsular or headland then animals that should be in deeper waters may suddenly find themselves in a confusing shallow bay. Shallow water can pose a risk to pilot whales in particular because of the way in which they navigate and communicate. These animals forage and feed largely by echolocation says Dr Andrew Brownlow a veterinary pathologist who has undertaken post mortems on stranded pilot whales in Scotland. So they use sound to navigate and communicate and find their prey. Using echolocation in areas with very shallow silty mud is like trying to walk through a forest on a foggy day he explains It's very hard to get your bearings and see clearly. This combination of shallow waters and confused muddled echolocation is a serious danger and may lead to mass strandings. They end up coming into shallow areas and get stranded by the receding tide so the natural lay of the land is a real risk factor for these animals Dr Brownlow says. But if a single whale gets injured or lost why do they end up beached in such large numbers? Experts say the answer lies in their herd like behaviour. It's a problem you get with these very social animals that tend to for reasons we have never been clear on end up following either a sick leader onto the beach or end up getting lost as a group Dr Brownlow says. This particular species seems to be very prone to that herd behaviour. It means that if one pilot whale encounters a problem then it can have an impact on the entire group. Dr Brownlow points to one case in 2015 when around 30 whales became stranded on the Isle of Skye off Scotland's west coast. We think that was because one of the females was having trouble giving birth and was in a lot distress he explains. She came into shallow waters and all the other members of the group followed her onto the beach. Another possible cause of strandings some experts suggest is warmer water temperatures. We've had an unusual week which we haven't got to the bottom of and it's fair to say it's been an entirely unusual year Dr Karen Stockin a marine mammal scientist based at New Zealand's Massey University told AFP news agency after the latest mass stranding. I suspect a lot of that has been driven by the warmer sea surface temperatures that we're seeing at the moment. She explained That's likely affecting where the prey is moving and as a consequence we're seeing prey moving and whale species following. New Zealand's summer begins on Saturday and Dr Stockin warned that there could be more beachings to come. We're just going into stranding season now this is only the beginning of it and we're very mindful of the fact that this a very busy start she said. While Dr Stockin says that global warming may be playing apart in the rising sea temperatures most experts say that it's important not to jump to conclusions about the role of humans in these cases. Pilot whales have probably been stranding in New Zealand since before people lived there Dr Ingram says. It's probably not anything to do with what humans have done. It's a very dynamic ecosystem that these animals are in so I would be very cautious in making any connection between these examples and climate change.	False	False	False	False	False
Protesters were arrested in Washington after blocking an oil train by erecting a pop up garden of sunflowers and lying down on the train tracks. The group was protesting a proposed oil terminal and all other fossil fuel infrastructure in the state. Two people were arrested Monday during a protest in downtown Vancouver Washington held by the activist group Shut Down Fossil Fuels. Protesters locked their arms into large sunflower pots and laid down on train tracks calling on Washington Governor Jay Inslee D to reject the proposed Vancouver Tesoro Savage Oil Terminal and all other proposed fossil fuel infrastructure in the State of Washington the group said in a press release. The protesters were blocking a BNSF train carrying Bakken Crude Oil a highly volatile oil that caused a train to explode in Mosier Oregon last June. Jessie Braverman the groups media liaison told RT that around 25 people showed up at the train tracks to address climate change and let the governor know that if he isnt going to stop the terminal than we will. Our community and our planet are under attack yet the political response has been amoral and inadequate. We were here on the tracks a year after the Mosier oil train derailment and nothing has changed Braverman said in a statement. The trains are still coming and new fossil fuel projects are still being proposed were in the midst of a worldwide climate emergency and were fighting back. Braverman confirmed that two people were arrested during the protest and they are still being held in jail. She also said that there had been no word from the governor whom they had been attempting to contact throughout the day. According to the Associated Press the tracks were cleared after an hour. In 2014 the state of Washington passed legislation to increase track and hazardous material inspections require oil spill contingency plans increase funding for prevention and cleanup of oil spills and improve safety at crossings along oil train routes. However Inslee said that states are limited in what we can do in creating regulations for interstate railroads. Railroads engage in interstate commerce which means the buck stops with the federal government. While federal regulators acknowledge the risks of crude by rail they have taken few steps toward increasing safety Inslee wrote in an op ed for the Columbian last year. The combination of federal preemption and federal inaction is unacceptable. Inslee urged Congress and the US Department of Transportation to implement even tougher regulations including lower speed limits for high hazard flammable trains and to use safer cars that are strong enough to protect volatile contents from the heat of a fire or the impact of a collision. However the group said that Inslee has failed to craft an emissions reduction strategy and the state continues to move towards a dizzying array of new fossil fuel developments. If I can stop an oil train Governor Jay Inslee can stop an oil terminal Chris one of the protesters said in a statement. Ultimately Shut Down Fossil Fuels is calling for an end to oil trains oil terminals and all fossil fuels. Its now or never. Were up against the wire and nobody no politician no agency no industry is stepping up to resolve the climate crisis Mike one of the protesters locked to a flower pot said in a statement. Its time for the people to step up to resolve this crisis before we run out of time. Sophie Scholl another media liaison for the group told RT that there has been a second blockade of a train up north following the arrests in downtown Vancouver.	False	False	False	False	False
Reuters Climate change will cost the U.S. economy hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century damaging everything from human health to infrastructure and agricultural production according to a government report issued on Friday. The Congressionally mandated report written with the help of more than a dozen U.S. government agencies and departments outlined the projected impacts of global warming in every corner of American society in a dire warning at odds with the Trump administrations pro fossil fuels agenda. With continued growth in emissions at historic rates annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century more than the current gross domestic product GDP of many U.S. states according to the report. It said global warming would disproportionately hurt the poor broadly undermine human health damage infrastructure limit the availability of water alter coastlines and boost costs in industries from farming to energy production. While it said that many of the impacts of climate change including more frequent and more powerful storms droughts and flooding are already underway the projections of further damage could change if greenhouse gas emissions are sharply curbed Future risks from climate change depend primarily on decisions made today it said. The report the Fourth National Climate Assessment Volume II supplements a study issued last year that concluded humans are the main driver of global warming and which warned of potentially catastrophic effects to the planet. The studies clash with policy under President Donald Trump who has been rolling back Obama era environmental and climate protections to maximize production of domestic fossil fuels including crude oil already the highest in the world above Saudi Arabia and Russia. Trump last year announced his intention to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris Deal agreed by nearly 200 nations to combat climate change arguing the accord would hurt the U.S. economy and provide little tangible environmental benefit. Trump and several members of his cabinet have also repeatedly cast doubt on the science of climate change arguing the causes and impacts are not yet settled. White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Environmental groups said the report reinforced their calls for the United States to take action on climate change. This report makes it clear that climate change is not some problem in the distant future. Its happening right now in every part of the country said Brenda Ekwurzel the director of climate science at the Union of Concerned Scientists and one of the reports authors. Previous research including from U.S. government scientists has also concluded that climate change could have severe economic consequences including damage to infrastructure water supplies and agriculture. Severe weather and other impacts also increase the risk of disease transmission decrease air quality and can increase mental health problems among other effects. Thirteen government departments and agencies from the Agriculture Department to NASA were part of the committee that compiled the new report. The entire report can be viewed at 	False	False	False	False	False
Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden really grabbed the audiences eyes at the climate change town hall literally as his eye filled with blood after a lackluster performance marked by half truths and excuses. The former Vice President was clearly floundering during CNNs climate change town hall on Wednesday which saw him face off against eight other Democrats. Viewers called him out for rambling incoherent answers and held his feet to the fire regarding his coziness with the fossil fuel industry. Then his left eye began filling up with blood. At around the same time his campaign cautioned voters not to turn a blind eye to the way in which environmental burdens are distributed unevenly along racial and socioeconomic lines an ironic coincidence or a sly reference to the unusual anatomic event? Before Bidens eye exploded the audience had been raking him over the coals for a scheduled fundraiser the following night at the home of a natural gas executive. The three time candidate has never been particularly committed to green issues slammed by environmental groups for not having a climate change policy he finally released one in June that contained several plagiarized items. But he had along with most of the other Democratic candidates promised not to take money from the fossil fuel industry a promise the fundraiser seemed to break to viewers dismay. But even the most blatant political hypocrisy was no match for the eye. Look Biden haters sometimes your eye is gonna spontaneously fill up with blood okay one user joked. Twitter furiously deploying algorithms to keep Bidens bloody corpse eye from trending observed another it appeared to work while was trending and variations thereof were noticeably not. Apparently it wasnt even the first time Bidens eye has filled up with blood during an important political event. But some commenters found a way to bring the conversation back to the environment. Not sure after tonight who has less time to live Biden or the planet said one. Joe Biden lied so hard during the climate town hall that his eye started bleeding commented another. I give it 14 minutes before Bidens campaign says his bloody eye was because of climate change predicted another. Meanwhile others made the inevitable comparisons to Hillary Clinton another candidate with a marked enthusiasm gap between donors and voters who has run for president and lost before yet is propped up by the media as the surefire winner. And some took time out from gawking to worry about his health since political speeches dont normally cause visible injury. Does Biden have a blood clot in his left eye? wondered one user. This cant be good news given his health history noted another. Like this story? Share it with a friend!	False	False	False	False	False
The United States is still reeling from last years megadisasters. Puerto Rico lingers in the longest blackout in US history after Hurricane Maria tore through the island and the scorched earth left behind from record breaking fires in California is now causing floods and mudslides. The Federal Emergency Management Agency which was on the front lines of many of these calamities had to go back to Congress last September to ask for billions more dollars to handle the gargantuan relief efforts. With some of the dust settled its clear that the events in 2017 fit the pattern of extreme weather we expect as average global temperatures go up with strong climate change signals emerging in fires and rainfall. FEMA has and will continue to respond to climate change influenced disasters. But the agencys new strategic plan for 2018 2022 released Thursday doesnt mention climate change or global warming at all. Thats despite the fact that the 38 page document projects more frequent and more expensive disasters. This is a glaring omission from an agency that deals with anticipating and responding to weather extremes driven in part by a changing climate. The damages from the hurricanes heat waves wildfires and tornadoes in 2017 cost at least 306 billion. Disaster costs are expected to continue to increase due to rising natural hazard risk decaying critical infrastructure and economic pressures that limit investments in risk resilience according to the document. FEMA did signal that it wants to invest more in pre disaster mitigation which may or may not include climate change. But it wasnt so coy in its previous 2014 2018 strategic plan which noted that the agency will also ensure that future risks including those influenced by climate change are effectively integrated into the Agencys risk assessment resources and processes. Dropping climate change from FEMAs strategic plan is just the latest part of the Trump administrations long pattern of erasing climate change as a public policy issue across the federal government. Agencies including the Department of Energy the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of the Interior have removed climate change language from many of their websites. Other agencies have limited access to policy and technical documents dealing with climate change. And some government research grant applications faced extra scrutiny and rejection for mentioning the double C word. Its not just rhetoric. President Trump wants the United States to back out of the Paris climate agreement and the EPA is working to undo the main policy for restricting greenhouse gases the Clean Power Plan. The White Houses latest budget proposal seeks a 72 percent cut to clean energy research and reduces FEMAs budget by almost 600 million from 16.1 billion. The recent personnel shake up across the federal government doesnt bode well for the fight against climate change either. Rex Tillerson who was fired as secretary of state this week wanted the United States to remain in the Paris deal. His likely replacement Mike Pompeo doesnt believe humanity is warming the planet. And former White House adviser George David Banks who suggested that Trump could rejoin the Paris agreement resigned last month after he failed to get a security clearance due to past marijuana use. The net result is that the Trump administration is doing little to either mitigate or adapt to rising temperatures. And now homeowners many of whom received disaster relief money from FEMA are rebuilding in floodplains and high fire risk areas. It seems FEMA doesnt want to build on this history of climate disasters. Now it looks like were condemned to repeat it.	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON Environmental advocates say now isthe time for decisive action on climate change. Democrats won the House in November riding a platformthat included a call to address the crisis. Global warming was blamed for intensifying natural disasters that killed dozens and cost billions of dollars across the country in 2018. Arecent avalanche of evidence that the climate is already changing radically has hardened the case for immediateaction. Climate change is here and now. And palpably getting worse. That is rapidly changing how Americans think about it David Doniger with the Natural Resources Defense Council wrote in a recent blog. The shift from 'future problem'to 'now crisis'is being fueled by blockbuster scientific reports and blockbuster real world catastrophes. And yetfew including Doniger expect Washingtonto do muchany time soon in the dramatic way scientistsare urging. President Donald Trump who in 2017 yanked the U.S. out of the Paris Accord on climate changecontinues to doubt the science and says radical action would only hurt the economy. At an international climate conference in Poland in December his emissariesdoubled down on the expansionof fossil fuels notably coal. And while incoming House Democratic leaders vow to make climate change a prioritywhen they take control Thursday their most ambitious proposals are expected to die in the GOP controlled Senate where Republicans remain resistant tofar reaching steps aimedat weaningthe nation off carbon. So for Democrats and their environmental allies the next two years in Washington are likely to be more about making a case to voters than actually scoring significant victories on climate change said Bob Shrum a longtime Democratic strategist who teaches political scienceat the University of Southern California. I don't think Trump's going to give an inch on this he said. I think we'll be at a stalemate for the next two years. But I think Democrats can prepare the ground can win the argument and can go into 2020 on these issues ina pretty strong position. Studies suggest there isn'tmuch time for politicking on the issue.Some of the effects are already taking place according to a landmark climate assessmentthe administration released in November. Climate change is contributing to extreme weather conditions the spread of new diseases by insects and pestsand changes to the availability of food and water the researchers say. But the dire warning has done little to prod Capitol Hill Republicans many of whom stillquestion the science behind climate change. Reluctant to cross Trump they barely discuss the issue these dayscompared to three years ago according to an analysis of press releases floor statements tweetsand Facebook posts by software firm Quorom. When Republicansdo talk about it therefrain is that innovation and incentive alone can solve the issue. One of the most notable achievements they toutwas passage of a tax credit to encourage the capture and storage of carbon emissions into the ground before they become airborne and contribute to global warming. More El Nios to strengthen because of global warming will cause 'more extreme weather' study says More Emissions of carbon dioxide into Earth's atmosphere reach record high But they roundly oppose dramatic steps such as a carbon taxto cut the nation off fossil fuels because it would increase the cost of energy. Wyoming GOP Sen. John Barrasso chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committeeand a sponsor of the carbon capture legislation opposes such punishing regulations. Making energy as clean as we can as fast as we can without raising costs to consumers will be accomplished through investment invention and innovation Barrasso wrote in a column for The New York Times. With carbon capture clean energy development and other advances the reliance on fossil fuels must stopas well if the planet has any hope of meeting the net zero carbon emissions goal by 2050 that scientists cite as a minimum to stave off the worst effects of a warming globe. That's a one two punch we need to solve the climate crisis said Conrad Schneider advocacy Director for the Clean Air Task Force a nonprofit organization pushing for carbon emission reduction. Neither alone is going to get it done. One of the few congressional Republicans willing to support a carbon tax is Florida Rep. Francis Rooney. Representing one of the country's reddest districts the former businessman from Oklahoma is a pro Trump conservative on most issues. But on climate change he is is an unflinching opponent largely because rising sea levels threaten his home state. I don't think we need to burn coal Rooney said. A carbon tax is the most market oriented nonbureaucratic efficient way I can see to kill off coal. And Rooney said the intransigence most of his fellow Republicans including President Trumpdisplay on the issue is harmful to the GOP brand and could come back to haunt them in 2020. We need to be reaching out to broaden our base and if you look at this last election our base is narrowing unfortunately he said. I talk to our kids and young people all the time and they are more environmentally sensitive they're more pro alternative energy they get the natural gas thing instead of coal. Tom Steyer the liberal California billionaire who is mulling a presidential run in 2020 believes climate change and Republicans' refusal to follow experts' advice despite the dire warnings will help Democratssweep into office two years from now. When we talk about what's at stake here we're talking about unimaginable suffering by the American people unless we solve the problem over the next 12 years he said recently. And I think that we're very far from doing that. And it is unclear to me that we can summon that will without having substantial political victories across the board.	False	False	False	False	False
Dozens of countries have extraordinary tropical forests but three stand out Brazil Indonesia and the Democratic Republic of Congo. These countries not only have the largest areas of tropical forest within their borders they also have the highest rates of deforestation. Dozens of countries have extraordinary tropical forests but three stand out Brazil Indonesia and the Democratic Republic of Congo. These countries not only have the largest areas of tropical forest within their borders they also have the highest rates of deforestation. We traveled to protected areas deep inside these countries to learn the superpowers of three tree species that play an unusually important part in staving off environmental disaster not just locally but globally. These trees play many ecological roles but most impressive is how they produce rainfall remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and support hundreds of other species. If these ecosystems collapse the climate effects are likely to be irreversible. And so what happens to these forests truly affects all life on Earth. This is the story of three trees at the center of our climate crisis that provide big benefits to you me and the whole world. Meet the trees get to know their superpowers and learn how scientists are trying to protect them. This project was supported by the Pulitzer Center.	False	False	False	False	False
Democrat presidential candidate and billionaire Tom Steyer once again vowed to declare a state of emergency over the climate crisis America faces during the sixth Democrat presidential debate at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles California. I am hoping that we in fact that we will do what I am suggesting that we do which is declare a state of emergency on day one of my presidency Steyer said in regards to the relocation of families under certain living conditions in America. I believe I am the only person here who will say unequivocally this is my number one priority Steyer continued. I know that we have to deal with this crisis. I know that we have to deal with it from the standpoint of environmental justice. Steyer then claimed he had previously taken on oil companies and beaten them on environmental laws and pushed clean energy across this country. He also stated that he had prevented pipelines and fossil fuel plants. Steyer then shifted focus to cleaning up the air and water in the black and brown communities where our pollution is concentrated and claimed it would create millions of middle class union jobs. Steyer also called on Mayor Pete Buttigieg another Democrat presidential hopeful to put more emphasis on climate change saying the people in his generation understand that this is a crisis that we have to go on right now and reinvent America. In addition to what he plans to do in regards to climate change Steyer also stated at a previous Democrat debate that he would force American towns to accept new affordable housing in certain areas.	False	False	False	False	False
Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt is expected to sign a proposed rule on Tuesday that would roll back a key piece of President Obamas climate legacy. But whats largely been lost in the conversation is how much the attempt to repeal the regulation on carbon dioxide emissions will impact peoples health. Pruitt wants to repeal Obamas Clean Power Plan the signature Environmental Protection Agency policy that aims to cut emissions from existing US power plants a big driver of climate change 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. While the big focus of the plan was reducing carbon emissions it also aimed to keep hundreds of thousands of tons of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide pollution out of the atmosphere. These greenhouse gases are not only harmful to the environment but also increase the risk of everything from asthma to heart disease. The Clean Power Plan in other words though never implemented was a big win for health. According to the EPA cutting exposure to particle pollution in the order the CPP does would have averted up to 3600 premature deaths 90000 asthma attacks in children and 1700 heart attacks each year. Which means that the White Houses move to repeal the Clean Power Plan is a one two punch to human health and the environment said Georges Benjamin executive director of the American Public Health Association. Greenhouse gases are an enormous risk to human health. So this means well continue to be exposed to these gases which exacerbate asthma heart disease strokes. According to the Global Burden of Disease project more than 5 million people die worldwide each year because of air pollution and emissions from coal fired plants are a major risk factor here. Its one reason why health experts have been pushing policymakers to rapidly phase out of coal. For miners the immediate health risks include black lung disease and scarring of the lung tissue. But the pollutants emitted when coal is processed including sulfur dioxide particulate matter nitrogen oxides and mercury have much more far reaching effects on many more people. In one large study involving 450000 Americans followed between 1982 and 2004 researchers found that increased exposure to the particles in fossil fuel emissions increased the risk of death from heart disease and particles from coal burning were five times more damaging than other similar particles. Reducing emissions from coal fired power plants also makes it easier to breathe. Over the past 30 years the percentage of Americans with asthma has more than doubled and climate change has been a significant driver of that trend. Air pollution triggers asthma attacks contributing to lung abnormalities particularly in the developing pulmonary systems of children. For the White House bolstering the coal industry seems to trump these other matters. The war on coal is over Pruitt said Monday in Kentucky when he announced the move. For now the environmental community and some state governments are expected to oppose the rule in federal courts. The public health community should be there too. Health isnt a big part of the conversation about Trump administration assault on climate change mitigation policies but it needs to be. Its not just the future of the planet thats at stake here.	False	False	False	False	False
Chew On This Farmers Are Using Food Waste To Make Electricity This story was produced as part of a collaboration with the PBS NewsHour As the season of big holiday meals kicks off it's as good a time as any to reflect on just how much food goes to waste. If you piled up all the food that's not eaten over the course of a year in the U.S. it would be enough to fill a skyscraper in Chicago about 44 times according to an estimate from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. And when all this food rots in a landfill it emits methane a powerful greenhouse gas that contributes to climate change. In fact a recent report from the United Nations from a panel of climate experts estimates that up to 10 percent of all human made greenhouse gas emissions are linked to food waste. So here's one solution to the problem Dairy farmers in Massachusetts are using food waste to create electricity. They feed waste into anaerobic digesters built and operated by Vanguard Renewables which capture the methane emissions and make renewable energy. The process begins by gathering wasted food from around the state including from many Whole Foods locations. We visited the chain's store in Shrewsbury Mass. which has installed a Grind2Energy system. It's an industrial strength grinder that gobbles up all the scraps of food the store can't sell explains Karen Franczyk who is the sustainability program manager for Whole Foods' North Atlantic region. The machine will grind up all kinds of food waste everything from bones we put whole fish in here to vegetables to dry items like rice or grains Franczyk says as the grinder is loaded. It also takes frying fats and greases. While Whole Foods donates a lot of surplus food to food banks there's a lot waste left over. Much of it is generated from prepping prepared foods. Just as when you cook in your own kitchen there are lots of bits that remain such as onion or carrot peel rinds stalks or meat scraps. The grinder turns all these bits into a slurry. It really becomes kind of a liquefied food waste Franczyk says. From here the waste is loaded into a truck and sent to an anaerobic digester. There's no question it's better than putting it in the trash Franczyk says. She says the chain is committed to diverting as much waste as possible and aims for zero waste. In addition to food donations Whole Foods composts this waste to energy system is yet another way to meet its goal. We really do like the system she says. We visited Bar Way Farm Inc. in Deerfield Mass. Owner Peter Melnik a fourth generation dairy farmer showed us how his anaerobic digester which is installed next to his dairy barn works. We presently take in about a 100 tons of waste which is about three tractor trailer loads every day Melnik says. In addition to all the food waste from Whole Foods he gets whey from a Cabot Creamery in the area as well as waste from a local brewery and a juice plant. In the digester he combines all of this waste with manure from his cows. The mixture cooks at about 105 degrees Fahrenheit. As the methane is released it rises to the top of a large red tank with a black bubble shaped dome. We capture the gas in that bubble. Then we suck it into a big motor Melnik explains. Unlike other engines that run on diesel or gasoline this engine runs on methane. This turns a big generator which is creating one megawatt of electricity continuously Melnik says enough to power more than just his farm. We only use about 10 percent of what we make and the rest is fed onto the electricity grid Melnik explains. It's enough to power about 1500 homes. He says times are tough for dairy farmers so this gives him a new stream of revenue. Vanguard pays him rental fees for having the anaerobic digester on his farm. In addition he's able to use the liquids left over from the process as fertilizer on his fields. The digester has been a home run for us Melnik says. It's made us more sustainable environmentally and also economically. Vanguard Renewables hopes to expand its operations in the state and elsewhere. There's more than enough food waste in Massachusetts to feed all of our five digesters plus many more says CEO John Hanselman. Massachusetts has a state law that prohibits the disposal of commercial organic waste including food by businesses and institutions that generate at least one ton of this waste per week. This has created an incentive for food businesses to participate in the waste to energy initiative. Hanselman points to Europe where there are thousands of digesters in operation. His hope is that the concept will spread here. The food waste recycling through anaerobic digestion could be done in every part of the country Hanselman says. The company is currently building an anaerobic digester on a farm in Vermont. The gas produced there will be piped to Middlebury College which will help the college reduce its carbon footprint.	False	False	False	False	False
WASHINGTON President Trumps decision to back out of the Paris climate accord is a blow to environmental activists but the nation's steady years long reduction in greenhouse gas emissionsthat contribute to global warming wont suddenly stop. Utility companies have announced plans to fully or partially close more than a half dozen coal fired power plants since Trump took office fewer than five months ago taking some of the nations largest greenhouse gas emitters off line. AndWall Street fund managers and large businesses are moving away from fossil fuels due to market conditions further contributing to increased use of cleaner energy sources. Since 2010 more than 250 coal fired power plants have closed in the U.S. On Wednesday Exxon Mobil shareholders voted against the boards recommendation to require the company publicly report on the risks to its business posed by climate change. The United States is making progress said John Coequyt Global Climate Policy Director for the Sierra Club. Were moving forward. We believe the rest of the world will do the same. Trump has already taken unilateral steps to roll back regulations that were designed to implement the Paris agreement including reversing President Obama's Clean Power Plan rule that sought to lower greenhouseemissions. Trumpcampaigned on a promise to withdraw the U.S.from the accord saying it would lead to higher energy prices and hurt domesticbusinesses from being able to compete globally. As president I have one obligation and that obligation is to the Americanpeople Trump said during a speech in theRose Garden announcingthe decision. The Paris Accord would undermineour economy hamstring ourworkers weaken oursovereignty impose unacceptable legal risk and put us at a permanentdisadvantageto the other countiesof the world. The internationalagreement which was signed in 2015 and went into effect seven months ago is considered a major part theenvironmental legacy of the Obama administration. Michael A. Needham chief executive officer of the conservative Heritage Action for America applauded the president's move. Withdrawal from the agreement marks a critical step in unraveling former President Obamas destructive legacy Needham said. Not only did Obama make this agreement without approval from Congress but in doing so he handed more control of Americas energy to foreign officials. Experts say pulling out of the accord will slow but hardly stop the momentum that's been building to keepa global temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre industrial levels. Under current policy the U.S. is still set to come within striking distance of meeting its 2020 goal under a prior U.N. climate change accordto reduce greenhouse gas emissions 17 below 2005 levels according to a report by energy analysts the Rhodium Group. But the analysis said withdrawing from the accord makes it very unlikely the U.S. will meet the26 28 target set out under the Paris deal. The exit from the accord will allow states such as California and New York to play a leading role in meeting climate change targets. California for example has stood out with its toughest in the nation vehicle emissions laws that often effectively establish auto industrystandards nationwide. California Gov. Jerry Brown said he hopes Trump's insane move to back out of the Paris accord will spur others to action. California will resist he told reporters on a conferencecall after Trump's announcement.California is all in. We're on the field ready for battle and while our president may be AWOL in the battle against climate change we're not.	False	False	False	False	False
Donors to conservative candidates should also finance media projects that promote their values. Politics is downstream from culture is an aphorism the late conservative iconoclast Andrew Breitbart was famous for coining He believed that in the end the people who win elections are the ones telling the best stories and controlling the narrative on any issue. In 2016 Donald Trump won in part because Make America Great Again encapsulated a better story than Hillary Clintons tepid Stronger Together. But popular culture whether it be books TV film music or video games remain dominated by the Left. Sandwiched between much of our entertainment are messages that perpetuate liberal themes The military is bloodthirsty radical Muslims must be handled with kid gloves trial lawyers and climate change activists are crusading heroes and above all corporations are evil. When they are not being greedy or trying to dominate the world they are responsible for polluting the planet. Narratives like the ones above dont get turned into stories by accident. The Tides Foundation which featured Barack Obama on its board before he became president has spent nearly a billion dollars in the past 20 years serving as a cutout for liberal donors who dont want to be identified with a particular cause. One of the most touted projects it has steered donors to is Participant Media an activist entertainment company that produces movies with a message. Among the films Participant has championed are George Clooneys CIA conspiracy thrillers Al Gores climate change documentaries and a docudrama celebrating Ruth Bader Ginsburgs legal career. Another genre beloved by Participant filmmakers is the corporate polluter drama. Dark Waters a film in which a crusading trial lawyer is pitted against the DuPont chemical company is being released nationwide this month. Picking up where Erin Brockovich left off the film asserts that DuPont ignored the dangers posed by a group of chemicals PFAS that were used in nonstick cookware and firefighting. Trial lawyers sued DuPont in 2001 alleging that 80000 people in Ohio and West Virginia had been exposed to PFAS in their drinking water. The case dragged on for years until DuPont and Chemours Company which spun off from DuPont settled some 3500 injury lawsuits for a total of 671 million. No one doubts that there was real liability in the case but Dark Waters is a conspiracy horror movie that ignores facts to shake up its audience. A clear giveaway is that the movie begins with the disclaimer inspired by true events rather than the more commonly used based on a true story. The film ignores recent studies that have found no causal link between PFAS chemicals and infections or dental cavities. Also ignored that the Centers for Disease Control report that the blood levels of PFAS compounds in people have dropped dramatically since the 20 year old events depicted in the story. But the film has served as a springboard for calls to environmental activism. The House Oversight Committee conducted a hearing on PFAS issues last month. Dark Waters leading star Mark Ruffalo was the main witness. Ruffalo best known to filmgoers for playing the Incredible Hulk is an outspoken political extremist. This month he sent out a tweet calling for an economic revolution because in his view capitalism is failing us killing us and robbing from our childrens future. Hes even criticized liberal TV host Ellen DeGeneres for socializing with George W. Bush because the former president hasnt been brought to justice for the crimes of the Iraq War. The real agenda behind Dark Waters is to try to vilify chemical companies and characterize them as the next Big Tobacco. They can then be made a juicy target for both trial lawyers and government regulators. In a CNN interview last month Ruffalo directly linked the issues around PFAS to alleged attempts by government to hide science surrounding fossil fuels not to mention Exxon and climate change. But just last week a New York judge found Exxon not guilty of misleading shareholders on climate change blowing up Ruffalos straw man. The Exxon case shows that the agenda of the left wing groups behind Dark Waters is a moving target one always guided by the trial lawyers laser like focus on the deepest pocketbook. The Left has long understood the role that popular culture can play in shaping politics. Conservatives have largely ignored the radicalization of Hollywood in this struggle. Its time that many people who give money to conservative candidates recognize the need also to finance media projects that promote their values. One example is a proposed big budget biographical film about Ronald Reagan starring Dennis Quaid. Its producers are still searching for final financing before they begin production. If conservatives wind up losing elections and thereby ceding public policy to the Left they will have only themselves to blame for ignoring the war over popular culture that has been steering younger voters to think in more radical terms.	False	False	False	False	False
Why progressives refuse to live by their own Earth Day bluster George Monbiot recently expressed a carefully calibrated environmental message that allows people on the environmental left to feel self righteous without making any real sacrifice. In a video that was shared widely including by celebrities such as James Corden the British writer argues that the only way to help the environment is to change the big structural political economic stuff. Monbiot concludes that we need to go straight to the heart of capitalism and overthrow it. At the same time he dismisses pathetic micro consumerist bollocks which just isnt going to get us anywhere. This is absolution for those who want to feel green but cant be bothered with going to the effort and expense of actually living their own values. Publicly advocating the do as I say not as I do approach reinforces the reality that conservatives tend to live out the environmental ethic that the Left only preaches. As a conservative who has worked in environmental policy for two decades I have been frustrated watching as ideological fellow travelers avoid environmental topics even as they privately express their commitment to environmental stewardship. As the Left becomes more detached from responsible and effective environmental solutions conservatives should confidently fill the void. One reason conservatives do not engage is that environmentalism has become synonymous with horrible government policy. Every Earth Day we are treated to theatrical images of marches featuring unhinged activists demanding action on a range of environmental issues. Clever hashtags are generated. Alarmist slogans are flaunted. Naked people glue themselves to park benches. And all who disagree with the demands for more government power are denigrated as deniers. The other 364 days of the year however people on the left do little in their daily lives to justify all that environmental browbeating. A study by researchers at the University of Michigan and Cornell University found that those who are highly concerned about climate change are least likely to report individual level actions to reduce their environmental impact. Those who considered themselves skeptical of climate change were most likely to report engaging in individual level pro environmental behaviors. To be sure not all conservatives are skeptical of climate change but generally we arent nearly as alarmist about climate change or other environmental issues even when we recognize the risk. That gap between the Lefts loud talk and their unwillingness to make personal sacrifices is not an accident. It is now part of their dogma. Individual actions are mere bollocks useless gestures. Only the sacrifices made by others will make a difference. This dichotomy is evident in my home state of Washington where politicians pride themselves on showing leadership in the effort to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. This year our legislature enacted a law requiring the state to meet a 100 percent renewable energy target by 2045. Environmental activists tweeted their support saying they demand action now and worrying about the climate crisis. Ironically though many who demand action do little of it themselves. For only a few dollars a month anyone who supports renewable energy can already buy renewable energy credits RECs ensuring that there is enough renewable energy on the grid to cover their personal use. I asked one politician pushing for the 100 percentrenewable requirement if she buys RECs to cover her environmental impact. She admitted that she does not and has no plans to do so. This is consistent with the message of Monbiot and political leaders pushing the Green New Deal. Personal sacrifice is of little consequence so why even try? Even as they call for an end to air travel politicians who demand we impose lifestyle change have not curtailed their own carbon producing travel despite living in the era of HD video conferencing. The most effective environmental efforts are often small personal actions in which people have skin in the game. Farmers find ways to conserve water because waste costs money. Aluminum cans are lighter today because it saves resources and they cost less to ship. Homeowners and businesses conserve energy because they pay the price for every kilowatt hour. When they dont save they change course unlike politicians who fear public embarrassment and throw good money after bad. This isnt just a theory. The amount of energy per unit of GDP in the United States has fallen steadily for several decades. There are no sharp drops. Instead the improvement is gradual and constant as individuals and businesses find ways to squeeze a bit more out of their energy use. Politicians can lecture all they want but these are truly the front lines of environmental stewardship. As Earth Day 2019 came and went the pattern of environmentalists demanding action that they themselves wont take predictably repeated itself. The pattern of conservatives avoiding talk of environmental stewardship even as they live it every day however is a pattern we should break. Effective environmental policy doesnt start with politicians and publicity stunts. Conservatives understand this. We should make it clear that personal environmental stewardship is not only more effective it is a more moral way to live.	False	False	False	False	False
We havent heard much about a national cap and trade system to curb carbon emissions since plans for one died in Congress about a decade ago. But tonight at the CNN climate forum Beto ORourke the former congressman from Texas revived the idea as his preferred method of pricing carbon. Under such a system the government issues a limited number of allowances or permits to companies and other entities that emit carbon dioxide essentially creating a cap on emissions. California and states across the Eastern Seaboard have used the system for the past several years to reduce emissions from the power sector. In the 5 trillion climate plan that Mr. ORourke released in April he indicated he would pursue some type of carbon pricing to reach his goal of net zero emissions by 2050 but didnt specify an approach. In response to a question from Priya Subberwal a New York University student Mr. ORourke made clear that he prefers cap and trade over a straight tax on carbon. We should certainly price carbon. I think the best possible path to do that is through a cap and trade system he said. Its the best way to send a pricing signal. The revenue from a cap and trade program he said would be reinvested in helping communities move toward clean energy. Mr. ORourke promised to surprise surprise re enter the Paris agreement on Day 1. He also pledged to lead the world in going well beyond the Paris climate agreement prevent new oil and gas leases on federal lands and bring back Obama era climate regulations like fuel economy standards and restrictions on coal fired power plants. The former Texas congressman was also one of the few candidates who explicitly tied Hurricane Dorian to newly proposed policies. He called for extending temporary protected status to anyone who wants to seek shelter here from the Bahamas which has been overwhelmed by the hurricane. Asylum laws Mr. ORourke said should include those who have been impacted by climate change. Its the right thing to do. Mr. ORourke was less clear about whether he believes people in his home state of Texas should be prevented from living in vulnerable flood areas. He said the government should help people move but avoided answering a question from the moderator Don Lemon about whether some areas were simply too risky for human habitation. One area where the Texan came down strong No limits on the meat industry despite calls from the United Nations for people to change their diet to avoid more damage to global land use. I reject any notion that we have to radically or fundamentally change how we eat or what we eat I think we just have to be more responsible in the way that we do it and the best way to do that is to allow the market to respond by setting a price on carbon he said.	False	False	False	False	False
President Donald Trump's Earth Day message greatly differed in tone from his predecessor by not mentioning climate change. The president's statement focused on the beauty of nature and the importance of preserving it for future generations. He said in the second paragraph 'economic growth enhances environmental protection.' This point was reiterated later in a somewhat defensive tweet. Trump said 'I am committed to keeping our air and water clean but always remember that economic growth enhances environmental protection. Jobs matter!' By comparison last year President Obama's message in 2016 took on an urgent tone and said 'Human activity is disrupting the climate and the challenge of combating climate change is one that will define the contours of our time.' However Obama did not mention climate change in 2010 or 2012 statements important midterm and general election years according to AOL. President Bush also pointed to climate change in his 2009 Earth Day statement 'We are taking positive steps to confront the important challenge of climate change. Our work is not done.' President Trump's administration executive orders and tweets indicate he is not a believer in climate change. In 2013 on a chilly day at Trump Tower he tweeted 'Another freezing day in the Spring what is going on with global warming? Good move changing the name to climate change sad!' In a flurry of other tweets he criticized President Obama for prioritizing the environment over other issues such as 'ISIS and Ebola.' On Earth Day thousands of scientists students and research advocatesmarched around the world in protest of Trump's research budget cuts. Many of the signs at the rallies referenced climate change specifically. On Friday Trump asked the Surgeon General Dr Vivek Murthy to resign from his post.Murthy previously spoke out against climate changed and called it aserious danger to public health.	False	False	False	False	False
Spurred by what they see as a sluggish ineffectual response to the existential threat of global warming student activists from around the world plan to skip school today for what organizers call a Global Climate Strike. The focus for young activists is the United Nations Climate Action Summit taking place Monday in New York City. The strike's figurehead is 16 year old Swedish activist Greta Thunberg who traveled from Sweden to New York on an emission free sailboat. A little over a year ago Thunberg began her school strike for the climate by herself outside the Swedish Parliament. Support for a school climate strike has since spread across the globe. In the last year Thunberg has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize by Norwegian lawmakers. She's also met with Pope Francis and lawmakers in several countries. We are currently on track for a world that could displace billions of people from their homes Thunberg warned this week during a speech accepting Amnesty International's Ambassador of Conscience Award. She ended her acceptance speech with a call to action See you on the streets! In New York City thousands of students may fill the streets with Thunberg because as the school district announced on Twitter it is giving strikers excused absences. In Oregon Portland Public Schools is doing the same. Strikes also are planned in rural areas where just a few dozen protesters are expected. Nicholas DuVernay 17 organized a protest in his politically conservative small town of La Grande Ore. Since probably the beginning of my junior year in high school I've been interested in climate science and pretty passionate about environmental topics says DuVernay who plans to study climate science when he attends college next year. A Washington Post Kaiser Family Foundation poll this week shows a majority of teenagers believe human caused climate change will cause harm to them. And a quarter of the poll respondents said they have participated in a school walk out a rally or contacted a government official on the issue. There have been similar student events in the past year. But this time students are asking adults to join them. At the University of Nevada Reno Stallar Lufrano Jardine 36 is setting up an event on campus where she's an employee and student. I'm bothered by the lack of movement to make meaningful advances to solve the climate crisis says Lufrano Jardine. But it's clear younger people are leading this movement and they say most adults especially policy makers are moving far too slowly. Strike organizers have a list of demands that includes respect of indigenous land sustainable agriculture protecting biodiversity environmental justice and a just transition away from fossil fuels and towards renewable energy said 17 year old Baltimore resident and organizer Nadia Nazar. Many of those demands are part of the Green New Deal which was crafted by progressive Democratic lawmakers but so far hasn't gone anywhere in Congress. At a Capitol Hill press event this week Nazar said she hopes the proposal defines her generation. I am not a part of Generation Z. I am a part of Gen GND the generation of the Green New Deal said Nazar as supporters cheered. Also on Capitol Hill this week Thunberg and other activists testified before lawmakers. Louisiana Republican Rep. Garret Graves told them climate change has exacerbated the loss of his state's coastline. I agree that we need to take aggressive action. I agree that we need to ensure that we move forward in a sustainable rational manner said Graves. But his idea of what that means is very different than the activists' vision. Graves agrees with President Trump on the need to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement. Graves told the student organizers the pact allows China to continue emitting more carbon dioxide while the U.S. cuts emissions. Paris and its related pledges would undermine U.S. competitiveness his spokesman said. Graves got immediate push back from the young activists including 17 year old Jamie Margolin from Seattle who asked how Graves will respond to questions from his children and grandchildren about whether he did enough to address climate change. Can you really look them in the eye and say 'No sorry I couldn't do anything because that country over there didn't do anything so if they're not going to do it then I'm not.' That is shameful and that is cowardly Margolin said. Organizers predict this climate strike will be the largest yet. More than 2000 scientists around the world have pledged to join. Some companies also have signed on including Patagonia and Seventh Generation.	False	False	False	False	False
A federal reportlast year found that about a quarter of all greenhouse gas emissions in the United States come from fossil fuel extraction on federal land. As the Trump administration continues its push to expand such development top candidates for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination agree that Americas public land must be a tool in the fight against climate change not a contributor to the problem. During CNNs marathon town hall on climate change Wednesday candidates vowed to end oil gas and coal leasing on federal land as part of a shared goal to decarbonizing the economy and prevent catastrophic warming. Sen. Kamala Harris D Calif. and former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julin Castro said they would also work to expand federally protected acreage. We actually need to undo the damage that this administration has done and then expand the lands that were protecting in our country Castro said. We can do that. Most of the 10 Democratic candidates who appeared on stage Wednesday have released climate plans that call for reversing Trumps sweeping land rollbacks safeguarding new sites or fully funding the popular Land and Water Conservation Fund which uses offshore fossil fuel revenue to protect natural areas and water resources. Castro Harris Sen. Cory Booker D N.J. and former Vice President Joe Biden have all committed to working toward protecting 30 of Americas land and water by 2030. The next president must be ready to lead the climate response we need to see on our shared lands and waters Huntley said. If we are going to keep pace with what science demands we must reduce greenhouse gas emissions on our public lands while also restoring protections for threatened forests from the Southern Appalachians to Alaskas Tongass National Forest. Ahead of Wednesdays forum Harris released a 10 trillion climate plan that calls for diversifying the marine and land ecosystems that we protect and targeting biodiversity hotspots and critical wildlife corridors as well as using existing presidential authorities to set aside critical landscapes. Bidens plan promises to permanently protect areas like the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge a pristine Alaska wilderness that the Trump administration is working to open to oil drilling and to set up programs to reforest and expand renewable energy on federal lands. Castros 10 trillion climate plan also released this week calls for designating new national monuments parks and wildlife refuge and outlines a so called Green Opportunity Corps that would put 15000 young adults to work in areas like public land conservation. He is the only candidate to put out an animal and wildlife welfare policy which seeks to end euthanasia for household dogs and cats and strengthen protections for endangered species. We need to connect the dots Castro said Wednesday. Ive connected the dots of actually preserving more of our lands both for the benefit of wildlife and for our benefit to combat climate change. Sen. Elizabeth Warren D Mass. was not asked Wednesday about how she would approach Americas public lands and waters despite being the only candidate to release a comprehensive plan specific to protecting them. Her policy vision unveiled in April includes overturning Trumps land rollbacks a moratorium on oil and gas leases on federal land and recruiting 10000 youth and veterans for a 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps. Its not enough to end our public lands contribution to climate change Warren wrote in an announcement at the time. We have an enormous opportunity to make them a part of the climate solution and for both economic and environmental reasons we should take it. All 10 candidates that participated in the CNN climate forum have voiced support for the Green New Deal the landmark resolution unveiled in February by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. and Sen. Ed Markey D Mass. and that outlined lofty goals of reaching net zero emissions by midcentury. Supporters of the Green New Dealhave said public land is key to its success. The plan calls for ensuring that public lands waters and oceans are protected and restoring and protecting threatened endangered and fragile ecosystems. Questions posed to candidates on Wednesday varied and not all were asked about public land and conservation. But nearly all have policy proposals that drive home the need for the nation to be a better environmental steward. Former Rep. Beto ORourke Texas says he would go beyond previous presidents to protect our most wild beautiful and biodiverse places for generations to come including more of the Arctic and of our sensitive landscapes and seascapes than ever before.	False	False	False	False	False
Sen. Bernie Sanders I Vt. upped the ante in his progressive agenda on Thursday when he signaled support forcriminal charges against executives at oil companies. Fossil fuel executives should be criminally prosecuted for the destruction they have knowingly caused Sanders tweeted. His comments were the latest in progressive politicians'long line of attacks on big corporations and their role in climate change. It came on the same day that he released a sweeping 16 trillion plan to address climate change. Sanders paintedhis Green New Dealas a way to end the greed of the fossil fuel industry. OCASIO CORTEZ 'THERE'S NO DEBATE' THAT FOSSIL FUEL PRODUCTION SHOULD STOP We are going to end the greed of the fossil fuel industry and move to 100 renewable energy he tweeted in an attack on natural gas. Sanders' website indicated that he would as president direct his Justice Department to pursue criminal charges against companies like Exxon. These executives have spent hundreds of millions of dollars protecting their profits at the expense of our future and they will do whatever it takes to squeeze every last penny out of the Earth his website reads. Bernie promises to go further than any other presidential candidate in history to end the fossil fuel industrys greedincluding by making the industry pay for its pollution and prosecuting it for the damage it has caused. The American Petroleum Institute a trade association for the oil and gas industry responded to Sanders in a statement to Fox News. Pitting important environmental goals against working families who rely on affordable American energy is a false choice the organization said. While some may use attacks on natural gas and oil to energize their political base our industry will remain focused on providing the energy that powers Americas economy and modern lifestyle while also continuing to lower carbon emissions beyond their current generational low. While Sanders' pledge seemed unprecedented left wing attacks on big oil are nothing new. Former New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman led a coalition of more than a dozen states in investigating ExxonMobil over allegations it misled the public about climate change. That turned into a federal lawsuit alleging the oil giant defrauded its shareholders with its messaging on climate change.Schneiderman resigned in 2018 amid allegations of physical abuse but legal battles continued to swirl around the company. Sanders' plan along with other Democratic climate change proposals wouldlikely inflict a heavy financial toll on companies like Exxon as Democrats embraced timelines that would drastically reduce carbon emissions within just decades of implementation. Congressional Democrats have for example proposed a carbon tax as a way to cut carbon emissions by 100 percent by 2050. The bill would purportedlyrebatea majority 70 percent ofrevenues from the tax to low and middle income Americans as a monthly dividend while spending the rest on infrastructure energy innovation and helping communities transition to a cleaner energy economy. The right leaning Competitive Enterprise Institute indicatedthat businesses would collectively face trillions of dollars in costs as they upgraded commercial and industrial buildings. For example the study found that the battleground state of Pennsylvania would face over 2 trillion in costs for upgrading residential commercialand industrial buildings. Florida would encounter a 1.4 trillion price tag andNew Hampshire the first primary state would face 102.8 billion in retrofitting costs. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Sanders andothers have claimed their plans would benefit the economy. The Vermont senator predicted his plan would create 20 million jobs and pay for itself over 15 years. The cost of inaction is unacceptable Sanders' website claimed. Economists estimate that if we do not take action we will lose 34.5 trillion in economic activity by the end of the century. And the benefits are enormous by taking bold and decisive action we will save 2.9 trillion over 10 years 21 trillion over 30 years and 70.4 trillion over 80 years. 	False	False	False	False	False
Energy and investment executives who met with Pope Francis earlier in June stood mostly in agreement that a tax on carbon emissions is the best path forward to combating climate change. Pope Francishosted a two day summit at the Vatican on June 8 and 9 inviting key players in the oil and gas industry for a back and forth discussion on climate change. The leader of the Catholic Church encouraged executives to give up fossil fuels and embrace renewable energy technology. The meeting was just the latest in a series of public moves the pope has made against traditional forms of electricity production. Most who took part in the summit agreed that afee on carbon emissions is pivotal in reforming the U.S. energy sector according to an Axios report. Ernest Moniz who served as an energy secretary under the Obama administration took part in the summit and said one of the areas of focus was carbon pricing to create market incentives for the transition to a low carbon system. Key members who met with Pope Francis includeExxonMobil Chief Executive Darren WoodsBP CEOBob Dudley Equinor CEOEldar Saetre and numerous others. The idea of a carbon tax a fee charged onto companies according to the amount of carbon emissions their plants emit into the atmosphere has been recommended as a market friendly method to controlling CO2 pollution. While carbon tax proposals appeared popular at the Vatican it has not garnered the same amount of support in Congress. Majority Whip Steve Scalise and West Virginia Rep. David McKinley introduced a House resolution in April that explicitly condemns a tax on carbon dioxide pollution. RELATEDPope Criticizes Oil Executives Silent On Ireland Legalizing Abortion In a public letter of support for Scalises resolution a group of conservative organizations claimed thata carbon tax would ultimately result in a loss of jobs and higher electricity bills For example a 2014 Heritage Foundation report found that a 37 per ton carbon tax would lead to a loss of more than 2.5 trillion in aggregate gross domestic product by 2030. That is more than 21000 in income loss per family a portion of the letter read. In addition a carbon tax would cost over 500000 jobs in manufacturing and more than 1 million jobs by 2030. According to a 2013 CBO report a carbon tax is highly regressive. House members have yet to vote on the anti carbon tax resolution. However the lower chamber of Congresspasseda similar version in June 2016 collecting six Democratic votes and zero Republicans opposition. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	False	False	False	False
Over the last two weeks weve heard a lot of folderol and bambosh about Republicans conservatives Texans etc. not believing in science because recent hurricanes have been bad and climate change is causing it and blah blah blah. As you can probably tell I dont think much of all that. We had a historic lull in hurricanes until the lull was over. Once the hurricanes started back up so did the claim that climate change caused the hurricanes just as the scientists predicted the same scientists who didnt predict the lull. Similarly California had a historic drought that recently came to an end. Most of the climate models say that California should get wetter because of global warming. But that didnt stop President Obama and others from suggesting the dry spell was a symptom of climate change. Then when California experienced huge amounts of precipitation suddenly the models were prescient. But look I dont want to debate global warming because a its boring to me b you get screamed at by people who act like we have seconds to act before the world ends and c you or at least I also get screamed at by people who insist its all a complete hoax. For those interested Im basically in the Matt Ridley lukewarmercamp. Now back to my point. This whole dont believe in science canard amounts to ackamarackus bordering on flimflam. Even if you were a 100 percent denier of climate change that wouldnt necessarily mean you dont believe in science. Indeed many of the hardcore rejectionists I know are really really really into the science of climate change tell the guys at CEI they dont believe in science I dare you. They just tend to think the prevailing consensus is a politically and journalistically contrived sham. But even if you are a denier without being a science dork that doesnt necessarily mean you dont believe in science. Rejecting one scientific finding whether accurate or inaccurate doesnt mean you must reject all science never mind suggest that you dont believe in it. To be honest I dont know what people who say you dont believe in science think they mean when they say it. Climate deniers dont insist the world is flat though I have to assume flat earthers have unconventional views on atmospheric science. They dont refuse to take medical treatment or prescribed drugs. They have faith that the internal combustion engine is based on sound science. Etc. Often when I stupidly engage people who sincerely claim that Republicans or conservatives dont believe in science I like to point out that many liberals and leftists have problems with science too. People who want to ban golden rice or other GMOs people who deny that a fetus is a whole human people who insist fetal pain is a myth people who get outraged by claims that say men cant get pregnant. The list goes on and on. And yet I dont argue that Democrats dont believe in science. You know why? Because that would be stupid. Anyway what brought all this to mind was a story in the Washington Post this morning. Apparently researchers claim they can tell whether youre a homosexual or lesbian by using facial recognition software. The results arent perfect they claim but the computers apparently do better than humans at guessing which team you play for or secretly want to play for but dont. Not surprisingly gay rights groups are angry! They dont like it! And to be honest I can understand why. But thats not the point. Both GLAAD and Human Rights Watch cant seem to decide whether the science is bad because its fake and flawed or bad because it might work. A representative of GLAAD said something interesting Technology cannot identify someones sexual orientation. Wait a second. Who says? Maybe this effort isnt up to snuff yet. But saying that technology can never identify someones sexual orientation strikes me as pretty anti sciencey unless were now back to saying sexual orientation is a choice which opens a whole new kettle of fish. Anyway Im not sure what I think about this technology or its ramifications but I have no problem with the notion that science will be able to figure out these things and well probably find out that some things are wired some are a choice and most are a mix of the two. The point is that opponents dont like this science because of the political and social consequences of it. Maybe theres a parallel here with some deniers of climate change. But only those deniers get accused of not believing in science. READ MORE How to Recognize Science Denial Progressives Claim to Love Science But What They Truly Love Is Power Climate Change Activists Are the Real Science Deniers Jonah Goldberg is a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior editor at National Review.	False	False	False	False	False
U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross on Thursday openly dismissed concerns raised by Secretary of State Rex Tillerson about President Donald Trump's decision to exit the Paris Climate Treaty. Tillerson a former ExxonMobil CEO told senators during his January confirmation hearing that the U.S. should stay engaged in global warming mitigation instead of walking away. 'It's important that the U.S. maintains its seat at the table about how to address the threat of climate change which does require a global response' Tillerson said then. And he has fretted privately to confidants that withdrawing from the Paris deal could both undercut America's credibility on other multilateral agreements and impair relationships with foreign allies. The U.S. commerce chief told Fox News just minutes after Trump blasted the climate agreement as a wealth transfer gimmick that Tillerson is wrong. 'I have a great deal of respect for Secretary Tillerson. I happen to disagree strongly with him on this particular issue.' He added that 'I just don't see the connection frankly' between the Paris pullout and America's trustworthiness in future negotiations. 'I don't agree with that at all. There's no reason to make one agreement connect with another' Ross said using the Trans Pacific Partnership as Exhibit A. 'The sky didn't fall when we pulled out of TPP and the sky certainly won't fall now that we've pulled out of the Paris Accord' he said. 'I think the president is right.' Ross said much of the predicted backlash from other countries that drive global warming concerns would be rooted in economics not science. 'Any time that people were taking money out of your pocket and you make them put it back in they're not going to be happy. And that's what's happening here' he said. 'This wasn't about climate. It was about U.S. money going to other countries.' Ross has firmly rooted himself in the train of thought that sees climate change agreements as thinly veiled pretexts for demanding global payouts from Washington and a free ride for its trade adversaries. 'The president made clear we already are far ahead of other countries in terms of CO2 reduction' Ross said describing U.S. efforts to reduce carbon outputs. 'And how can it be an effective deal when it allows China and India two of the major polluters to keep increasing their pollution for another decade or two?' 'That doesn't sound to me like a climate accord' he said. 'It simply sounds like a transfer of wealth from the United States to other countries.' Tillerson on the other hand has aggressively pushed for greater recognition of America's obligation to lead the charge. Three weeks ago he signed an international document establishing the importance of the Paris Treaty in tackling climate change. The Fairbanks Declaration was adopted at the meeting by the members of the Arctic Council whose members like the U.S. have territory above the Arctic Circle. The declaration says that the Arctic 'is warming at more than twice the rate of the global average resulting in widespread social environmental and economic impacts in the Arctic and worldwide.' Last year just one day before Trump was elected Tillerson told a conference in Abu Dhabi that 'at ExxonMobil we share the view that the risks of climate change are serious and warrant thoughtful action. Addressing these risks requires broad based practical solutions around the world.' 'Importantly as a result of the Paris agreement both developed and developing countries are now working together to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions' he said then 'while recognizing differing national responsibilities capacities and circumstances.' Tillerson who met with the president on Wednesday in a last ditch effort to change his mind about pulling out of the Paris Accord did not attend Thursday's Rose Garden announcement that America's participation was at an end.	False	False	False	False	False
One of the attorneys heading New York Citys climate litigation made comments in September that could seriously harm the citys mission to sue oil companies for contributing to global warming. New York Citys climate lawsuits are ultimately designed to target the industrys financial bottom line Susan Amron the chief of the environmental law division of the New York City Law Department said at a Sept. 26 panel discussion during the Climate Week NYC. Sowere not saying you cant use fossil fuels thats a different part of the citys efforts Amron said during the panel noting also that the lawsuit is designed to impress on companies the need to internalize the costs fossil fuels impose on cities. She appeared to contradict herself a few sentences later telling the audience that the intent is really to eliminate the oil industrys license to operate. Andreally what were trying to do is affect the bottom line the financial equation for the use of fossil fuels she said. We just acted and I want to urge every city every county every state to do the same divest. Divest from the fossil fuel industry De Blasio told the Vermont Democrat at the time. Lets help bring the death knell to this industry thats done so much harm. The lawsuit was dismissed in July a handful of months after De Blasio made his comment. Judge John Keenan wrote in hisopinionat the time that legislative branch was the appropriate arena to address global warming. NYCs lawsuit does appear to suggest the intent is not to destroy but rather to mitigate harm. The City does not seek to impose liability on Defendants for their direct emissions of greenhouse gases anddoes not seek to restrain Defendants from engaging in their business operations the city wrote in its complaint. Amrons admission will likely create challenges forthe citys appeal which is slated to begin in front of the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals soon. Neither Amron nor New York Citys Law Department have responded to The Daily Caller News Foundations request for an explanation about the lawsuit is designed to hammer the oil industry or for mitigation purposes. Other climate lawsuits across the country are similarly on the ropes. Cities in California Colorado and Rhode Island have also filed similar lawsuits against energy producers over the past year. They argue that Exxon and others should pony up money for mitigation efforts designed to forestall the effects from climate change. A judge dismissed lawsuits in Oakland and San Francisco arguing that the U.S. Congress is only the governmental body responsible for enacting policies needed to mitigate global warming. Manufacturers and conservative groups worry trial attorneys are behind the spat of climate litigation. Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP handled lawsuits on behalf of the two California cities and New York City in exchange for a percentage of any winnings called a contingency fee.RELATED Trial Lawyers Handling Cities Global Warming Lawsuits Stand To Make Billions Hagens Bermanstood to earn billions of dollarsin contingency fees depending on the total winnings from a favorable judgement against oil companies. The three cities claimed billions of dollars worth of damage from global warming induced by fossil fuels.	False	False	False	False	False
In one of South Floridascongressional districts the party machine swept in to prop up a two term incumbent by painting his opponent as a puppet of fossil fuel interests and dirty coal money. The only catch? The incumbent is Republican Rep. Carlos Curbelo and the party apparatus is the National Republican Congressional Committee whose coffers this cycle contain nearly 7 million in donations from the oil and gas industry. The ad was released on Oct. 30 and immediatelynational environmental groups that generally align with Democrats called foul underscoring their support of Curbelos Democratic challenger Debbie Mucarsel Powell. If Curbelo had been half the climate champion he claims he is he wouldnt be desperately seeking an ad littered with lies such as this said Sierra Club PAC Director Sarah Burton in a statement. But Curbelo isnt a climate champion hes a consistent vote against clean energy against our public lands and in favor of fossil fuels. Debbie Mucarsel Powell is a climate champion and the advocate South Floridians need as they watch sea levels rise see beaches destroyed by red tide and live with the increasing threat of stronger more powerful hurricanes. Curbelo has received more than 192000 from energy and natural resource firms in comparison tothe less than 5000 thatMucarsel Powellhas received from the same sector of donors according tothe Center for Responsive Politics. A spokesperson forMucarsel Powells campaign did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Curbelo is one of thefounders of the Climate Solutions Caucus a bipartisangroup in Congress ostensibly committedto fighting global warming but restricted in practice by the reliance ofits 45 Republicanmembers on support from oil and gas firms. While he broke ranks this summer to express his support for a carbon tax as a possible way to combat climate change more than 30 of Curbelos Republican colleagues on the caucus supported a symbolic measure that disavowed a carbon tax. Last December he joined caucus members in a budget vote that would have openedup 1.5 million acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil and gas drillingMother Jonesreported at the time. The latest forecast from polling aggregatorFiveThirtyEighthas Curbelo trailing by less than one percentage point. The super PAC Climate Hawks Vote which supports candidates with a progressive energy agendahas been running ads against Curbelo that point to his history of receiving donations from fossil fuel companies including Chevron and Exxon Mobil.This cycle hisNo. 1 donorhas been NextEra Energy the Florida electric utility which is one of the largest purveyors of solar and wind energy projects in the country. We sure appreciate the help from the NRCC in calling out politicians who take dirty fossil fuel money and then obstruct progress on climate change and are looking forward to similar NRCC ads attacking every single one of their own candidates said RL Miller Climate Hawks Votes political director in a statement. We only wish the ad had noted how much Carlos Curbelo has taken from Big Oil.	False	False	False	False	False
Atlantic hurricane season has reached its peak and as Florida deals with devastation wrought by Irma RT takes a look at where the phenomena come from and if they are really becoming more frequent? The 2017 hurricane season has already seen Texas rocked by Harvey and Florida battered by Irma and there are concerns that Jose which is currently lashing the Caribbean could hit the US east coast. While September is the most active month for hurricanes worldwide the North Atlantic hurricane season is set to continue until November 30 raising the question where are these monster storms originating? READ MORE 4 dead as Hurricane Irma rocks Florida leaving 3.5mn without power PHOTOS VIDEOS Most of the major hurricanes that have impacted the US originated in Cape Verde a nation on a volcanic archipelago off the northwest coast of Africa according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA. The interaction between the hot dry air of the Sahara Desert and the cooler more humid air from the Gulf of Guinea below creates high altitude winds known as the African Easterly Jet. Blowing from east to west across Africa the winds form clusters of thunderstorms once the waves of air have enough moisture lift and instability. The storms typically form every two to three days in a region near Cape Verde but it is not until the period between summer and autumn that conditions become favorable for the development of tropical cyclones. Tropical waves of air interact with the warm equatorial water of the Atlantic as they head west prompting columns of warm moist air to rise from the ocean and create an ideal environment to develop into a full blown hurricane. However if the Saharan Air Layer commonly known as Saharan dust is in the vicinity at the time it can weaken tropical cyclones over the Atlantic. This very dry air is most likely to have an impact in July and early August Dr Gerry Bell a hurricane climate specialist with NOAA told RT.com. This is when atmospheric conditions are only marginally conducive if at all for tropical storm formation. Hurricane Sandy and Hurricane Andrew began life as tropical waves off the coast of west Africa. Irma was first spotted as a tropical disturbance off the Cape Verde Islands in late August before becoming a hurricane over the Atlantic as it moved west. Cape Verde hurricanes are known for being particularly large and intense however not all hurricanes hitting the US originate here Harvey evolved from a tropical wave to the east of the Lesser Antilles in the Caribbean Sea. A 2015 study examining the relationship between West African tropical disturbances and Atlantic hurricanes found that the larger an area covered by the disturbances was the more likely it would develop into a hurricane only one to two weeks later. Is the US getting hit more frequently by hurricanes? Hurricane seasons have generally been longer since 1995 according to Bell which he says is consistent with a high activity era. The season lengths since 1995 are comparable to those during the last active era of the 1950s 1960s. A study published in Nature last year led by James Elsner a climate scientist and geographer at Florida State University found that while hurricanes were becoming more powerful they were also becoming less frequent. However there appears to be little consensus among scientific researchers. An early draft of the government publication the US Climate Science Special Report published by the New York Times notes an observed upward trend in North Atlantic hurricane activity since the 1970s. The NOAA Geophysical fluid dynamics laboratory meanwhile says it is too early to conclude that global warming has already had a detectable impact on Atlantic hurricane or global tropical cyclone activity. However expects it to result in more intense tropical cyclones globally with substantially higher rainfall rates by the end of the 21st century. It notes however that there is little evidence to suggest that climate change will lead to a large increase in numbers of tropical storms or overall hurricanes in the Atlantic.	False	False	False	False	False
Environmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi this past December. They plan more sit ins to push for support of a sweeping resolution to address climate change. J. Scott ApplewhiteAP hide caption toggle caption J. Scott ApplewhiteAP Environmental activists occupy the office of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi this past December. They plan more sit ins to push for support of a sweeping resolution to address climate change. J. Scott ApplewhiteAP For a nonbinding resolution with an uncertain future the Green New Deal Green New Deal FINAL is getting a lot of attention along with a decidedly mixed reaction. Dozens of Democrats on Thursday introduced alexandria ocasio cortez releases green new deal outlinethe measure an ambitious framework for future legislation designed to eliminate the U.S. carbon footprint by 2030. Our energy future will not be found in the dark of a mine but in the light of the sun said Sen. Ed Markey D Mass. as he announced the legislation on Capitol Hill. The resolution has few details but it aims to overhaul the U.S. economy and spread wealth more evenly. It calls for a speedy shift in energy generation from fossil fuels to renewable sources like wind and solar and for a fair and just transition for all communities and workers. Much of the early criticism revolves around the scope of the plan which backers say is big to match the challenge of the climate change problem. All great American programs everything from The Great Society to The New Deal started with a vision for our future said co sponsor Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez D N.Y. But this vision is for an extremely near term future. I'm afraid I just cannot see how we could possibly go to zero carbon in a 10 year time frame former Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz tells NPR's All Things Considered. Moniz now CEO of Energy Futures Initiative agrees that the U.S. needs to pick up the pace of its shift away from carbon but he calls the decade long time frame impractical. He worries it could turn off key constituencies needed in the climate effort including labor unions oil companies and the business community. I'm afraid I just cannot see how we could possibly go to zero carbon in a 10 year time frame. Ernest Moniz former energy secretary and CEO of Energy Futures Initiative The Green New Deal doesn't even mention some of the usual ideas for addressing climate change such as a carbon tax or cap and trade program. Instead it calls for lots of spending to create among other things infrastructure and transport that don't rely on fossil fuels. Environmental groups generally support the resolution. It is a breath of fresh air to see leaders in Congress discussing climate solutions that rise to the scale of the challenge said Aliya Haq federal policy director for the Climate Clean Energy Program at the Natural Resources Defense Council in a statement 1. But some groups were disappointed the plan doesn't call for a complete end to using fossil fuels. We have 12 years according to science if we're going to meet the challenge of the climate crisis. And to do that we have to tackle fossil fuels head on. And the resolution just doesn't quite get us there says Nicole Ghio senior fossil fuel program manager at Friends of the Earth. The oil industry says it's already reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the electricity sector as coal plants switch to natural gas. They need to do a whole lot more homework These days transportation accounts for the largest share of greenhouse gas emissions greenhouse gas emissions. Green New Deal backers say they want more high speed trains to make airline travel less necessary and more electric cars and charging stations. But experts warn that changing the existing fleet of cars in the U.S. would be an extraordinary effort. There's 350 million liquid fuel cars on the road today in the United States and most Americans don't buy a new car except every decade says Amy Myers Jaffe director of the program on Energy Security and Climate Change at the Council on Foreign Relations. Green New Deal backers say they also want to eventually phase out nuclear energy which currently supplies 20 percent of electricity in the U.S. The Nuclear Energy Institute argues in a statement nei statement on green new deal that its electricity is carbon free and should be a part of any program addressing climate change. The proposal takes aim at methane from cows too. Methane is an especially potent greenhouse gas and cows produce a lot of it. But the beef industry is at a loss to respond because of the lack of details in the Green New Deal. They need to do a whole lot more homework and much more research and analysis before we can ever even really engage in this discussion says Colin Woodall senior vice president of government affairs for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association. So far the plan's biggest success may be that it's energizing thousands of young activists. A group called the Sunrise Movement held a Web meeting with supporters email green new deal livestream recordingemailreferreremail490282emailsubjectgreen new deal livestream recording around the country Tuesday. Jeremy Ornstein 18 says he deferred going to college to work with the organization. Ornstein is among the Sunrise Movement organizers who plan three weeks of activism including lobbying members of Congress to sign onto the Green New Deal. And we're going to give our elected officials a deadline. They've got to get an answer to us by Feb. 26 or face the consequences warns Ornstein. He says activists around the country will occupy members' offices in what the group calls a nationwide day of action. Given the scope and ambitious nature of the Green New Deal it might be tempting to criticize or dismiss activists supporting it. But Amy Myers Jaffe hopes older more experienced policymakers won't do that. We need not to discourage them she says. They have an energy and will to innovation that is not only infectious but inspiring. And she says that could be what's needed to address a problem as daunting as climate change. 	False	False	False	False	False
William Happer the White Houses most veteran climate change denier who tried unsuccessfully to establish an ad hoc panel to challenge near universally accepted climate science is leaving the Trump administration according to reports from EE Newsand Bloomberg. A retired Princeton physics professor with no expertise in climatology Happer has served as President Donald Trumps deputy assistant for emerging technologies on the National Security Council since September 2018. He has long argued that the planet and humans benefit from increased carbon dioxide emissions. He has called climate science a cult claimed Earth is in the midst of a CO2 famine and said the demonization of carbon dioxide isjust like the demonization of the poor Jewsunder Hitler. Earlier this year TrumptappedHapper to lead a panel of fringe researchers tasked specifically with conducting adversarial scientific peer review of climate science part of the administrations relentless effort to discredit and downplay the ongoing crisis. The White House ultimately scrapped the plan as EE News reported in July. News of Happers departure comes one day after the resignation of his boss national security adviser John Bolton. It was Bolton who recruited Happer to the National Security Council and backed his effort to create an anti science panel according to The New York Times. The CO2 Coalition a right wing think tank that Happer co founded and that argues Earth benefits from humans pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere confirmedhis upcoming resignation in a Tuesday post to its website and praised him for his efforts. While your proposed review of alarmist analyses and projections has been delayed we believe your work in calling attention to the problem of unscientific climate alarmism has reduced the chances of the dramatic increases in energy prices that would arise from the banning of fossil fuels that some have proposed Patrick Moore and Caleb Rossiter two representatives of the CO2 Coalition wrote in a joint statement. The CO2 Coalition is one of several think tanks that peddle misinformation about climate change and receive funding from the Mercer familythe billionaire megadonors whogave more than 15 million to Trumps 2016 campaign.	False	False	False	False	False
Democrats vying for president revealed a fundamental split over how aggressively the US should tackle climate change in a seven hour town hall meeting on Wednesday. Bernie Sanders painted an apocalyptic future wreaked by the climate crisis and pledged to wage war on the fossil fuel industry. A high energy Elizabeth Warren urged optimism for building a better America and the former vice president Joe Biden who has a pitched a more moderate proposal said he would push other nations to recommit to stronger action. Sanders said without radical change the world will be uninhabitable. The damage to the world will be irreparable the Vermont senator said adding that he is proposing the largest most comprehensive climate plan presented by any presidential candidate in the history of the United States. With many questions focused on what candidates would ask Americans to sacrifice Elizabeth Warren pushed back on the framing. Asked if the government should tell people what kind of lightbulbs they can have the Massachusetts senator quipped Oh come on give me a break! There are a lot of ways that we try to change our energy consumption and our pollution she said. Some of it is with lightbulbs some of it is on straws some of it dang is on cheeseburgers. But most of the responsibility lies with industry not individuals she said adding this is exactly what the fossil fuel industry wants us to talk about. Biden meanwhile pitched himself as the candidate who could lead negotiations with the diplomatic might of the US. He said his first step as president would be to call an international meeting to strengthen the Paris climate agreement. We should be organizing the world demanding change we need a diplomat in chief Biden said. Look whats happening now in the Amazon whats going on? Nothing. Biden who critics say has one of the less progressive climate plans also got grilled on his plans to attend a fundraiser hosted by the founder of a natural gas company. He claimed the supporter is not a corporate executive. Where Biden would invest 1.7tn to fight climate change Warren proposed 10tn and Sanders would put forward 16.3tn setting them widely apart. The Democrats faced questions on whether their proposals would ban fracking for natural gas prohibit exports of oil gas and coal change nutritional guidelines to limit meat consumption and transition to all electric vehicles. Their answers and reactions to them foreshadowed the fight ahead with conservatives and industry regardless of who becomes the next president. Donald Trump in a thread on Twitter charged that Democrat plans will raise your energy bill and prices at the pump. The fossil fuels industry through the oil trade group the American Petroleum Institute and the American Energy Alliance said the plans would hurt poor Americans. Tonight while American families worry about making ends meet the Democrats running for president will be working hard to outbid each other on who can raise electricity and gasoline prices the highest and the fastest the alliance said in an emailed statement. The event was perhaps the longest stretch of primetime television ever dedicated to climate change held after the Democratic National Committee refused to sanction an official climate debate between candidates and amid unprecedented pressure from young activists and the Democratic voting base to tackle the climate crisis. On Wednesday a list of demands was released by a coalition of youth led groups whose lodestar is Greta Thunberg the Swedish teenager and activist who sparked a global wave of walkouts by school students over the climate crisis. Thunberg arrived in New York last week after crossing the Atlantic in a solar powered yacht for an upcoming UN climate summit. According to Yale University polling the climate emergency is now the second most important voting issue for Democrats behind healthcare. Among all voting Americans nearly seven in 10 are worried about climate change the highest ever recorded level of concern. There are strong bipartisan majorities in favour of setting pollution limits on industry businesses cars and trucks. Donald Trump who is dismantling rules aimed at lowering planet warming gases attacked the Democratic candidates for proposing unrealistic costly plans. The Democrats destructive environmental proposals will raise your energy bill and prices at the pump the president wrote on Twitter. Dont the Democrats care about fighting American poverty? Trumps campaign quickly took the opportunity to post a clip of California senator Kamala Harris saying she would ban plastic straws alongside an ad for Trump branded straws. But some young conservatives have raised concerns that Republican intransigence over the climate crisis will cost the party a generation of voters. Recent Newsy Ipsos polling found that 59 of millennial and Generation Z Republicans support the Green New Deal. There are a lot of young people who are conservative and believe in climate change They will not vote for a Republican if theyre voting on this issue said Benjamin Backer founder of the American Conservation Coalition which proposes action on the climate crisis. And I think thats a problem with the lack of involvement from the Republican Party on this issue for the past 10 years.	False	False	False	False	False
According toDaniel Rothman professor of geophysics in the MIT Department of Earth Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences and co director of MITs Lorenz Center we are fast approaching thresholds of catastrophe in the carbon cycle which make doom almost inevitable. In a paper published today inScience Advances he proposes that mass extinction occurs if one of two thresholds are crossed For changes in the carbon cycle that occur over long timescales extinctions will follow if those changes occur at rates faster than global ecosystems can adapt. For carbon perturbations that take place over shorter timescales the pace of carbon cycle changes will not matter instead the size or magnitude of the change will determine the likelihood of an extinction event. Taking this reasoning forward in time Rothman predicts that given the recent rise in carbon dioxide emissions over a relatively short timescale a sixth extinction will depend on whether a critical amount of carbon is added to the oceans. That amount he calculates is about 310 gigatons which he estimates to be roughly equivalent to the amount of carbon that human activities will have added to the worlds oceans by the year 2100. If we get a repeat of the Great Dying 275 million years ago what this means basically is that we are all going to die. Even you. But before you ring up your grandchildren and warnthem to cancel the marquee theyve booked for their 100th birthday celebrations perhaps a note of caution should be attached to professor Rothmans cheery prediction. First lets not forget it that itis flatly contradicted by the recent bombshell study suggesting that the effects of carbon dioxide on global warming have been overstated that the computer models are running too hot and that were not about to fry any time soon. Second Rothman appears to have given himself so much margin for error as to render his doomsday projection meaningless. Does this mean that mass extinction will soon follow at the turn of the century? Rothman says it would take some time about 10000 years for such ecological disasters to play out. However he says that by 2100 the world may have tipped into unknown territory. This is not saying that disaster occurs the next day Rothman says. Its saying that if left unchecked the carbon cycle would move into a realm which would be no longer stable and would behave in a way that would be difficult to predict. In the geologic past this type of behavior is associated with mass extinction. R i g h t. So what youre saying Dr Rothman is that youre allowing plus or minus 10000 years leeway for this mass extinction which wont definitely happen but which may happen. Do you know what? Even though Im not a professor of geophysics at MIT I think even I could have come up with a scientific theory as rock solid and testable as that one.	False	False	False	False	False
Its true that not all the sea ice is gone yet but much of what remains is thin enough that the light passing through it is allowing algae blooms. In many places it is cracked and subject to being broken up by storms which due to the extremes of heat and cold confronting eachother in that region have extremes of wind and wave. The Jacobshaven Glacier delivering 10 of the ice melt from Greenlands ice caps to the sea no longer flows at a glacial pace but rather is retreating at 10 kmyr with the rate of retreat increasing at an increasing rate just as with the sea ice. Instead of climate changing over millennia we are now seeing it change in ways we can observe with our own eyes in the course of a season. Even as some scientists are still looking at what happened during the second half of the 20th century at a scale of change over decades others are beginning to address the significant acceleration of changes observed year by year. A link to a number of papers since 2015 showing dramatic climate change globally and in particular with extremes at the poles is still controversial to some. Dramatic climate change is affecting both the Arctic and West Antarctica yet the relative roles of local versus remote forcings in causing the changes are being debated. As global climate change continues to unfold the two way links between the tropics and the poles will play key determining factors in the climatic evolution of these sensitive regions. Thus the time is ripe for a detailed look at how the tropics and the poles are coupled climatically. This special collection of the Journal of Climate on Connecting the Tropics to Polar Regions grew out of a mini conference on the same topic that was held at Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory in June 2014 ConferenceWeb.html Removal of the sea ice from over the ESAS allows storms to churn up the bottom sediments speeding the release of Methane. Methane releases speed up the melting of the permafrost. The permafrost stores huge amounts of methane and fresh water. We have known this since 2007. A policy briefing from the Woods Hole Research Center concludes that the IPCC doesnt adequately account for a methane warming feedback While most attention has been given to carbon dioxide it isnt the only greenhouse gas that scientists are worried about. Carbon dioxide is the most important human emitted greenhouse gas but methane has also increased in the atmosphere and it adds to our concerns. As the Earth warms and the Arctic warms especially fast the permafrost melts and soil decomposition accelerates. Consequently an initial warming leads to more emission leading to more warming and more emission. It is a vicious cycle and there may be a tipping point where this self reinforcing cycle takes over. Recently a policy briefing from the world leading Woods Hole Research Center has moved our understanding of this risk further through a clearly written summary. The briefing cites two recent papers here and here that study the so called permafrost carbon feedback. One of these studies makes use of projections from the most recent IPCC report to estimate that up to 205 gigatons equivalent of carbon dioxide could be released due to melting permafrost. This would cause up to 0.5C up to 0.9F extra warming. Arctic scientists warn that the release of the methane from the ESAS could happen with the same surprising acceleration we see with glaciers sea ice and the polar ice caps melting and have a huge effect on the melt rate of the permafrost. Just as bad the permafrost melting would continue after 2100 which would lock us into even more warming. Under this scenario meeting a 2C limit would be harder than anticipated. The current IPCC targets do not adequately account for this feedback. This is essentially what arctic scientists have been warning about for a decade now but pointing out that the time scale is no longer centuries but just years and this is another reason why the IPCC is moving up their next report date	False	False	False	False	False
The U.S. Department of Agriculture USDA is actively trying to muzzle and minimize scientific reports warning about the impacts of climate change according to a Monday Politico report. The research Trump officials are trying to keep hidden could help farmers deal with the impact of climate change such as how climate change affects the protein in wheat fed to cattle or how changes in carbon dioxide levels alters the nutrients in rice. But rather than promote such peer reviewed research by the USDA's Agricultural Research Service ARS the agency refuses to even issue press releases. In one instance about research on rice the agency tried to dissuade a research partner the University of Washington from publicly discussing research. It was so unusual to have an agency basically say 'Don't do a press release' Jeff Hodson a communications director at the university told Politico. We stand for spreading the word about the science we do especially when it has a potential impact on millions and millions of people. Research from Politico showed the USDA did not attempt any promotion or press releases for 45 ARS studies that mentioned climate change. The intent is to try to suppress a message in this case the increasing danger of human caused climate change said Michael Mann a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University. Who loses out? The people who are already suffering the impacts of sea level rise and unprecedented super storms droughts wildfires and heat waves. Anti science censorship has become a hallmark of the Trump administration. In August 2018 a survey of 63000 government scientists warned that censorship has been a problem in the Trump administration from the beginning. When a multi agency report on climate change was released in November 2018 Trump's EPA administrator Andrew Wheeler complained that it had too much science in it. As recently as June the Trump administration prevented a scientist from writing about climate change in testimony before Congress because it didn't jibe with the administration's view on the topic. Trump has been clear that he does not believe in the sound science behind climate change writing it off as a hoax. Trump said he didn't believe the multi agency scientific report about climate change noted above. Trump has also chosen fellow climate change skeptics for the highest levels of his administration including Sonny Perdue who leads the Department of Agriculture. In May career government economists accused Perdue and his agency of retaliating against them for their reports showing that Trump's tax and farm subsidy policies are hurting the very rural voters he promised to help. Now farmers may also feel the brunt of the pain from not receiving information about how to cope with the changing environment. Perdue refused to comment on this latest report that his agency is suppressing scientific research. If you're taking a certain block of research and not communicating it it defeats the purpose of why USDA does the research in the first place Robert Bonnie who worked at USDA during President Obama's administration told Politico. Rather than embrace science the Trump administration is hurting farmers in order to cling to an anti science political position. Published with permission of The American Independent.	False	False	False	False	False
In the wake of Hurricane Irma the New York Times advanced the climate change agenda from every angle in Tuesdays edition. First up the paper featured more odd respect for religion from its colorful left wing reporter Jason Horowitz in Pope in the Air Puts Foot Down on Climate Change Denial and DACA Reversal. The text box The pontiff says pro life believers must defend the unity of the family. And another Times reporter stuck up for the tasteless global warming warriors using Hurricane Irma to forward climate change. A paper loathe to credit Christianity for pro life or traditional marriage views readily broadcasts the left wing views of Pope Francis and in particular his bashing of Donald Trump As he flew near Caribbean islands devastated by Hurricane Irma on his way back to the Vatican from Colombia on Sunday Pope Francis said that political leaders and others who denied climate change reminded him of a passage from the psalms about mans stubbornness. Man is stupid the Bible said he said. Its like that when you dont want to see you dont see. In a typically wide ranging news conference that included his questioning of United States President Donald J. Trumps commitment to issues of life because of his plan to strip undocumented immigrant children of protections from deportation the pope urged those who denied climate change to consult scientists who had clearly determined it was real and that humanity would go down if global warming was not recognized and addressed. Then he said decide and history will judge the decisions. During Mr. Trumps May visit to the Vatican the pope gave him a copy of his 2015 encyclical letter Laudato Si which called for a human response to global warming and top Vatican officials appealed to the president not to withdraw from the landmark Paris climate accord. Weeks later Mr. Trump pulled out of the agreement. It wasnt just global warming. Horowitz also used Pope Francis to criticize Trumps move to end DACA On the flight the pope nevertheless appealed again to Mr. Trump this time on his decision to end President Obamas Deferred Action for Children Program known as DACA. The program allows children brought illegally to the United States to stay without fear of deportation. Mr. Trump has given Congress which has failed to pass immigration overhaul for the last decade six months to enact legislation to resolve the status of about 800000 people affected by his decision. When the Times doesnt challenge a pro life message better read closely. I hope they rethink it a bit he said. Because I heard the U.S. president speak. He presents himself as a man who is pro life. If he is a good pro life believer he must understand that family is the cradle of life and one must defend its unity said Francis who in the past has said that advocates like Mr. Trump of a wall to keep out migrants on the Mexican border were not Christian. Horowitz showed himself not so fond of more conservative Catholics in an August report for the Times in which he made common cause with a piece making the rounds of Catholic intellectual circles singling out ultraconservative Trump supporting conservatives as dangerous From the Vatican a Warning Shot for Hard Line Catholics in the U.S. Meanwhile reporter Lisa Friedman on Tuesday used a comment from the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to stick up for the tasteless global warming warriors now using the tragedy of Hurricane Irma to forward their environmental agenda in For E.P.A. Chief Discussing Climate After Storms Is Insensitive. The text box Concerns that the U.S. is dodging questions on global warming. Friedman found a Republican to mouth concern over climate change and promptly teed him up in paragraph two while instantly identifying her by party something the paper consistently fails to do with Democrats in trouble Scott Pruitt the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency says it is insensitive to discuss climate change in the midst of deadly storms. Toms Regalado the Republican mayor of Miami whose citizens raced to evacuate before Hurricane Irma says if not now when? For scientists drawing links between warming global temperatures and the ferocity of hurricanes is about as controversial as talking about geology after an earthquake. But in Washington where science is increasingly political the fact that oceans and atmosphere are warming and that the heat is propelling storms into superstorms has become as sensitive as talking about gun control in the wake of a mass shooting. Ben Kirtman a professor of atmospheric science at the University of Miamis Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science said he believes failing to discuss climate change hurts Florida and the entire country. Dr. Kirtman and Dr. Berry are among a group of Florida scientists who confronted Governor Rick Scott in recent years for his refusal to acknowledge that human made greenhouse gases are driving climate change. Last year they wrote a letter to then candidate Donald J. Trump asking for a meeting to discuss the consequences of climate change in Florida. They said the Trump campaign never responded. In Florida scientists say Gov. Scotts aversion to even the words climate change have prompted scientists to self censor their work. If you write a proposal and it talks about fixing some infrastructure because of climate change its not going anywhere Mr. Kirtman said. You spend an awful lot of effort word searching your document for the words climate and change. Its silliness. That is one reason many scientists maintain it is critical to use the megaphone that the dual devastation of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma has provided. People they note are finally paying attention. Friedman cited an obscure news source to make her case of benighted Republicans ignoring the obvious facts of climate change	False	False	False	False	False
Two Republican House members have signed their name onto bipartisan carbon tax legislation a bill that stands virtually zero chance of passing during the lame duck session. GOP Reps. Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania and Francis Rooney of Florida are to introduce a carbon tax bill on Tuesday alongside Florida Democratic Rep. Ted Deutch.TheEnergy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act if passed would slap a 15 per metric ton carbon fee on fossil fuel industries. While the bill has little chance of passing it is intended to spark a debate over carbon pricing as the Democratic Party prepares to take over the lower chamber of Congress. More than a dozen federal agencies just warned us that if we dont take dramatic action climate change will knock 10 percent off of our GDP by the end of this century Deutch the bills Democratic co sponsorstated to Bloomberg Environment. Putting a price on carbon can help change the behavior of polluters. We hope our bipartisan bill will spur action on climate change before its too late. That 15 per metric ton fee would increase by 10 every year until reaching certain carbon emission targets. In order to shield citizens from higher fossil fuel prices revenue from the tax would be given back out to households.Sponsors of the legislation believe it would slash greenhouse gas emissions by one third over a 10 year period and a 90 percent cut by 2050 compared to 2015 emission levels. TheEnergy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act is notable in that itsthe first bipartisan carbon tax bill introduced in Congress in about 10 years. However given the GOP will control the Senate and White House for at least the next two years its passage appears quite bleak. The bill comes not long after an outgoing Republican lawmaker Rep. Carlos Curbelo introduced a carbon tax bill of his own this year. Cureblos bill was more stringent calling for a24 per ton fee on carbon. Much like the new bipartisan bill Curbelos was doomed to fail from the beginning and he endured attack ads from the right for even introducing it. Long considered one of the most at risk Republicans heading into Election Day Curbelo went on to lose his Miami area House seat to a Democratic challenger. Curbelo was one among many moderate Republicans on the Climate Solutions Caucus who lost re election. Altogether 13 GOP members of the bipartisan climate group lost their elections and numerous others chose to retire. RELATED A Growing Number Of Democrats Are Signing On To Ocasio Cortezs Green New Deal Republicans Fitzpatrick and Rooney both members of the Climate Solutions Caucus survived their re elections and both will continue to work with Democrats on various climate change bills in the next legislative session. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact licensing	False	False	False	False	False
At least eighteen environmental groups filed four lawsuits in one day against the Trump administration including suits to keep in place Obama era environmental policies. Environmentalists filed their suit Wednesday. Theyare living up to threats made after President Donald Trump took office namely to use the courts to preserve Obama administration policies. These include orders that stop offshore drilling and force the closure of coal plants. The League of Conservation Voters LCV led eight other groups in a legal challengeof Trumps recent executive order to reopen large swaths of Arctic seas to offshore drilling.LCV is one of the many environmental groups that endorsed Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential election. Never in LCVs history have we taken this step Gene Karpinski LCVs president said in a statement. The permanent protections President Obama established for the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans were won with years of research lobbying and organizing. The suit argues Obama used his authority Section 12a of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to put most Arctic waters off limits to development. The act does not allow future presidents to undo placing waters off limits activists argue. The same day Earthjustice and the Center for Biological Diversity CBD filed suits to challenge the administration. Earthjustice sued to stop the Environmental Protection Agencys EPA decision to indefinitely stay the implementation of wastewater discharge rules for coal plants. CBD filed suit against EPA for not finalizing deadlines for the cities of Washington D.C. and Philadelphia to meet ozone standards. CBD also sued for Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitts emails and schedule. Earthjustice and CBD joined LCVs suit against Trumps EPA. So far CBD has filed 15 lawsuits against the administration something which the activist group publicly brags about. CBD famously sued the Department of Homeland Security DHS to stop the construction of a wall on the U.S. Mexico border. CBD wants the court to force DHS to conduct a programmatic environmental impact statement on border enforcement operations. Trump can expect more lawsuits as he continues to rollback Obama era policies. Environmentalists spent years lobbying and campaigning to get such policies in place. The Natural Resources Defense Council NRDC for example played a pivotal role in crafting the Clean Power Plan which became Obamas signature global warming policy. But Trump ordered EPA to review the Clean Power Plan asking the agency to see if it needed to be modified or rescinded. NRDC and other environmental groups were already locked in legal battles to keep the power plant rule from being overturned. NRDC has filed its fair share of lawsuits against Trump as well. They filed two lawsuits against the administration in February to keep the EPA from withdrawing a mercury rule and to oppose an executive order requiring agencies to repeal two regulations for every new one imposed. In March NRDC and other environmentalists sued to block the Keystone XL oil pipeline from being built. Theyalso tried to intervene in a lawsuit against a national ocean monument Obama created. The group filed at least two lawsuits in April challenging Trumps delaying energy efficiency standards for appliances and the administrations refusal to ban certain pesticides. NRDC attorneys are also representing LCV and others in the suit to keep Arctic waters off limits to drilling. Were President Trump able to get away with this the country would lose an important tool for protecting its vital interest in clean and vibrant oceans and coasts Niel Lawrence NRDCs Alaska director told Bloomberg. By now its clear there is no legitimate public interest in further expanding risk to our oceans in pursuit of fossil fuels that we dont need Lawrence said. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content please contact emailprotected.	False	False	False	False	False
Any proposal to avert the climate crisis must include a full fracking ban on public and private lands Sanders said Wednesday ahead of CNNs seven hour climate change town hall. He continued calling the concept of safe fracking pure fiction and decrying the release of methane from natural gas as a major contributing factor to climate change. Fracking is a danger to our water supply. Its a danger to the air we breathe. It causes earthquakes. Its highly explosive. Safe fracking is like clean coal pure fiction Sanders continued. But most importantly methane from natural gas contributes to climate change and is setting us on a path to disaster he added. When we are in the White House we will end the era of fossil fuels and that includes fracking Sanders call to ban fracking is not necessarily new. The Vermont senator promised in March that his administration would ban fracking nationwide and rapidly move to renewable energy Sanders also called for a full ban on fracking as part of his 16 trillion Green New Deal proposal released last month. Fracking and mountaintop removal coal mining are two particularly harmful methods used to extract fossil fuels his plan states. They make surrounding communities less healthy and less safe. They must be immediately banned. Former Vice President Joe Biden D has also expressed a desire to ban fracking telling CNNs Dana Bash that his administration would work to eliminate it. Just to clarify would there be any place for fossil fuels including coal and fracking in a Biden administration Bash asked during Julys Democrat debate in Detroit. No. We would work it out. We would make sure its eliminated and no more subsidies for either one of those either any fossil fuel Biden said Ten Democrat candidates including Biden and Sanders will participate in the CNN hosted climate change town hall Wednesday evening.	False	False	False	False	False
Incoming New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez brings with her a massive online following influence she says shell deploy only in support of candidates and politicians who support her plan for a Green New Deal. The Green New Deal is something Ocasio Cortez invokes frequently in media appearances and rallies. So whats actually in it? Her office recently released the text of a proposed House rules change outlining the plan. The proposed rule change for the upcoming 116th Congress would require the creation of a Select Committee for a Green Deal that would be responsible for creating the plan by January 1 2020 with corresponding draft legislation soon after. The text of the rule change lays out the committees jurisdiction and required areas of action. Its scope and mandate for legislative authority amounts to a radical grant of power to Washington over Americans lives homes businesses travel banking and more. Early on under Jurisdiction the document makes clear its grandiose philosophical vision The select committee shall have authority to develop a detailed national industrial economic mobilization plan for the transition of the United States economy to become greenhouse gas emissions neutral and to significantly draw down greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and oceans and to promote economic and environmental justice and equality. In addition to achieving its goal of meeting 100 of national power demand through renewable sources the document also repeatedly states the Green New Deal will advance non environmental projects such as social economic racial regional and gender based justice. Ocasio Cortezs plan further claims it will virtually eliminate poverty The Plan for a Green New Deal and the draft legislation shall recognize that a national industrial economic mobilization of this scope and scale is a historic opportunity to virtually eliminate poverty in the United States and to make prosperity wealth and economic security available to everyone participating in the transformation. More specifically Ocasio Cortezs plan calls for within 10 years a series of lofty overhauls of American life emphasis added Between its calls for upgrading homes and overhauling travel public infrastructure and even the way Americans consume electricity the plan leaves virtually no facet of everyday life untouched. Think of how often you dont use electricity to imagine how much of your average day the plan wouldntimpact. The proposed committee would also have seemingly total oversight of American industry with a mandate for pushing union membership. Under Scope of the Plan a section on labor states the committees final plan shall Require strong enforcement of labor workplace safety and wage standards that recognize the rights of workers to organize and unionize free of coercion intimidation and harassment and creation of meaningful quality career employment. Later in the document Ocasio Cortezs plan imagines creating a national jobs force to help people participate in this transition. The Green New Deal it says shall provide all members of our society across all regions and all communities the opportunity training and education to be a full and equal participant in the transition including through a job guarantee program to assure a living wage job to every person who wants one. The plan also imagines creating governmental support for transitioning minority communities. The deal shall ensure a just transition for all workers low income communities communities of color indigenous communities rural and urban communities and the front line communities most affected by climate change pollution and other environmental harm including by ensuring that local implementation of the transition is led from the community level. More Ocasio Cortez sees this plan is being a vehicle through which social equality might finally realized through theuse of reparations to right historicalinjustices. The final Green New Deal willmitigate deeply entrenched racial regional and gender based inequalities in income and wealth including without limitation ensuring that federal and other investment will be equitably distributed to historically impoverished low income deindustrialized or other marginalized communities in such a way that builds wealth and ownership at the community level. And if that werent enough to ensure that Democratic Socialism could be fully realized in America the plan includes failsafe in the form of universal income and Medicarefor All The plan it says shall include additional measures such as basic income programs universal health care programs and any others as the select committee may deem appropriate to promote economic security labor market flexibility and entrepreneurism. Ocasio Cortez clarifies that this plan would not only need to be financed by taxpayers but also the Federal Reserve and other institutions the government can create. The end of the document contains a QA one of which deals with the plans funding The Federal Reserve can extend credit to power these projects and investments new public banks can be created as in WWII to extend credit and a combination of various taxation tools including taxes on carbon and other emissions and progressive wealth taxes can be employed. Ocasio Cortez may not be in Congress yet but she already has a plan to remake the way Americans drive commute live work and even use the financial system. Let there be little doubt how she aspires to wield power in Washington. Editors Note This post has been updated with grammatical fixes.	False	False	False	False	False
In the next few weeksCalifornia Gov. Gavin Newsom is slated to announce his administrations energy policy strategy and many environmental groups thereare hopingit will include plans to end oil and gas drilling in the nations most populous state and phase out all fossil fuel extraction. At the very least green groups are hoping that Newsom who campaigned last year on a promise to end controversial extraction methods like fracking and who has been a key figure in the fight to curtail climate change will create buffer zones for any new oil and gas wells near schools hospitals and residential neighborhoods and also monitor for dangerous emissions from plugged or abandoned wells. I consider to remain optimistic given how he expressed interest in issues that former California Gov. Jerry Brown did not address Kathryn Phillips the director of the Sierra Club California told Fox News. The governor needs to make a plan to transition the state away from oil and gas toward renewables but also transition workers into jobs in that sector. But as Newsoms term in Sacramento approaches its fifth month many of these groups are losing patience as the governor tries to balance a clean energy agenda with the demands of an industry that supports hundreds of thousands of jobs in a state with around 26 million vehicles on the road. Im taking a very pragmatic look at it in scoping this Newsom told The Los Angeles Times recently. Its also an inclusive scoping because it includes people in the industry that have jobs communities that are impacted from an environmental justice prism but also from an economic justice prism. Its a challenging issue. Newsom must now weigh the support he received from environmental groups while on the campaign trail and his own assurances that he wants California to be powered 100 percent by renewable energy in the near future with any moves that could negatively affect a billion dollar industry in a state that has the worlds fifth largest economy. Even with Californias oil production being in decline for years the state was the nations fifth largest domestic crude oil producerin 2017 according to figures compiled by the federal government. His intentions are very pragmatic Catherine Reheis Boyd the president of the Western States Petroleum Association told Fox News. Newsomunderstands the importance of an industry to the 40 million people who will be driving 26 million combustible engines tomorrow. One practice that environmental groups are hoping Newsom will clamp down on more than his predecessor is hydraulic fracturing. Known more popularly as fracking it is a method of oil and gas extraction in which large volumes of high pressure water are shot into the ground. Fracking has come under intense scrutiny in recent years amid widespread concerns over both the public health and environmental risks it poses. While Brown approved restrictions on the practice back in 2013 he was lambasted by green groups for not banning fracking outright amid his argument that it could provide economic opportunities to some Californians. On the campaign trail last year Newsom was adamantly opposed to fracking but has so far remained quiet about the practice along with the possibility of banning offshore drilling in the state when discussing his energy agenda. Newsom however told the Los Angeles Times that despite his commitment to renewable energies it would be impossible to completely stop Californias reliance on fossil fuels at the moment. One cannot just turn off the switch. One cannot just immediately abut against a century of practice and policy Newsom said. Still California is one of the nations leaders in pushing forth a green energy agenda. Despite the criticism leveled against him for waffling on clamping down on the fossil fuel industry Brown last year signed two pieces of legislation that effectively banned the construction of any new offshore oil and gas pipelines in the states waters and thwarted a Trump administration plan to open nearly 1.7 billion acres of coastal waters to drilling. While California cannot directly block oil and gas drilling off its coast the legislation that Brown signed aims to drive up the operating costs of these operations enough to make the effort unprofitable. Thelaw does this by blocking state land managers from permitting the construction of new pipelines piers wharves or other infrastructure projects necessary to bring oil and gas from offshore drilling sites to land. California has positioned itself as the center of the Trump resistance Jessica Levinson a clinical law professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles told Fox News. Its bloody combat. California banned offshore drilling in state waters out to three miles back in 1994 and there havent been any new platforms built in the last 30 years. But California is the nations third largest oil producing state behind Texas and North Dakota and there are still 32 offshore oil platforms and artificial islands in federal and state waters off the coasts of Santa Barbara Ventura Los Angeles and Orange Counties. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP California may be leading the nation in curbing its reliance on fossil fuels and many environmental activists believe Newsom will take even bolder steps than his predecessor energy industry insiders like Reheis Boyd question what the point is when other states and nations are not doing their part as well. I get the idea of taking a lead on this issue and I think many companies agree with this she said. But at what cost is this being done especially when nobody else is doing anything.	False	False	False	False	False
The City of Lights Paris has been illuminated in recent days by cars set alight by thousands of protesting Yellow Vestslargely middle class people who earn their living by driving or who commute to get to work. The cause of their ire is a scheduled 25 cents per gallon increase in gas taxes and about 10 cents on diesel to fight climate change. French President Macron deeply unpopular just reversed course on the new green taxParisians are already paying about 7.06 per gallon for gasoline almost half of that in taxes. If Paris streets burned over a proposed25 cents per gallon climate change tax imagine the global conflagration over a 49 per gallon tax. Thats what a United Nations special climate report calls for in 12 years with a carbon tax of 5500 per tonequal to 49 per gallon of gasoline or diesel. Thats about 100 times todays average state and federal motor fuels tax. By 2100 the U.N. estimates that a carbon tax of 27000 per ton is needed240 per gallonto limit global warming to no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius. Of course that isnt going to happen. The economic wreckage of such a punitive tax would plunge the global economy into a permanent depressionand thats assuming politicians could enact such huge tax increases over the will of their voters. Keep in mind that the unrest in France was triggered by a looming 25 cent hike which is a little less than 10 more in taxes than French drivers already pay. To meet the 49 per gallon tax hike recommended by the U.N. fuel taxes in France would have to go up 17 fold. The violent protests in France were fueled by intense frustration felt by a middle class that sees itself squeezed. They dont earn enough to be part of the elite unconcerned with fuel taxes but they work hard enough that they dont qualify for the generous welfare benefits handed out to the nations poor and to newly arrived immigrants from Africa and the Middle East. Here in America Republicans in Congress passed a resolution against carbon taxes over the summer while Democrats embraced the concept in their party platform. Some incoming members of the new Democratic majority in the House are calling to create a select committee to map out a Green New Deal that would move the U.S. toward using 100 renewable energy for the electric grid while guaranteeing jobs for everyone. In the meantime opinion polls indicate that 54 of Americans do not believe global warming will cause major problems within their lifetimes. So how do climate activists get their way? Some openly talk of imposing authoritarian governance to override democratic institutions. Former NASA climate researcher James Hansen suggested in 2007 that the democratic process does not work. Other scientists have called the threat of global warming the equivalent of war while calling for the crushing of dissent and the jailing of deniers. Those who see climate change as a dire and urgent threat have some work to do to convince voters in the Western democracies to give up their way of life in exchange for unspecified benefits of a slightly less warm worldand thats assuming China India and over a billion people in Africa can be convinced not to try to pull themselves out of povertysomething that may only be done with greater use of fossil fuels. Thus one well worn tactic employed by those who would presume to tell the rest of us how to live where to live and how to workall of the good of the planet of courseis the alarmist study making copious use of lies of omission and commission. An example of the former can be seen in the new National Climate Assessment. The reports first chapter lists recent natural disasters citing this summers deadly Carr Fire in California as an example. But while the report seeks to link wildfire to climate change it glosses over the real reason fires have grown in intensity and size the 30 years of increased environmental restrictions on logging brush clearance and preventive burns that caused a massive and dangerous fuel buildupa problem that was predicted years ago and has nothing to do with global warming. The sin of commission in the service of scaring middle class voters into doing that theyre supposed to can be seen in an economic modeling study paid for by our federal tax dollars as well as underwritten by two billionaires who would be president Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg. Here were told that the U.S. economy will take a 10 hit by 2100 unless we reduce our carbon emissions. Two problems though the authors assume the worst case and least likely scenario with average temperatures more than 14 degrees Fahrenheit hotter by 2100 and they derive two thirds of their economic losses estimate by claiming a large amount of premature deaths due to the hotter temperatures. The latter claim is highly problematic as death rates in regions far hotter than in the U.S. arent meaningfully different when accounting for the standard of living. Why? People adapt rather easily. This makes for scary headlines in the New York Times or CNN but it is far from sound science or even good economics. The bottom line is this economic freedomthe kind you get with a large middle classleads to prosperity economic growth and technological innovation. And its these three things wealth growth and technology which allows humans to thrive on planet Earth not 240 per gallon fuel taxes imposed by an elite that cares not for the masses.	False	False	False	False	False
Accompanying every hurricane are numerous stories in mainstream media outlets suggesting disaster could have been averted had American elected officials done more to stop global warming which left wing pundits continue to insist is almost entirely being caused by humans carbon dioxide CO2 emissions. In article after article pundits have claimed Republicans especially President Donald Trump are in some way responsible for Hurricane Florence. The Washington Posts editorial board in an article titled Yes you can blame President Trump for Hurricane Florence even went so far as to say Trump was complicit for the storm. This is total nonsense. Not only are there countless good reasons to question the extent to which humans are contributing to global warming theres no evidence indicating hurricanes have become significantly worse as a result of global warming. As Roy Spencer Ph.D. an acclaimed climate scientist who previously worked for NASA recently stated The fact that there has been no long term change in global hurricane activity and even a 50 percent decrease in U.S. landfalling major hurricanes over the last 80 years means no one is complicit in these storms. James Agresti the president of the Just Facts think tank rightly notes data appearing in the academic journal Geophysical Research Letters show the global number and intensity of cyclones hurricanes and major hurricanes have been roughly level for the past four to five decades. Some have said Florence was made worse because of warmer ocean waters caused by climate change but thats also false. Writing for Climate Change Dispatch Michael Bastasch explains An analysis of Florences path by Cato Institute meteorologist Ryan Maue showed ocean temperatures were abnormally cool for most of the storms trek through the Atlantic Ocean. Even the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change one of the most notorious defenders of the theory humans are headed for a climate catastrophe admitted in 2012 there is low confidence in long term changes in tropical cyclone activity after accounting for past changes in observing capabilities. However over the satellite era increases in the frequency and intensity of the strongest storms in the North Atlantic are robust. However the cause of this increase is debated and there is low confidence in attribution of changes in tropical cyclone activity to human influence. And if all that werent enough its absolutely absurd to say Trump is any way responsible for global warming because even if it is true humans are the primary cause of warming carbon dioxide emissions actually dropped in Trumps first two years in office. In 2017 the United States emitted 41.8 million fewer tons of CO2 than in 2016 the largest reduction in the world. And from 2006 to 2016 the United States has averaged an annual reduction in its carbon dioxide emissions of 1.2 percent according to an analysis by BP. The reason the Washington Post and others are consistently alleging despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary that Republicans are somehow to blame for natural disasters such as Hurricane Florence is either because they know absolutely nothing about the topic or because they believe it will help Democrats win elections. Either way you should stick to what the best available science says not the fear mongering of anti conservative zealots. Justin Haskins Jhaskins is executive editor of The Heartland Institute and the co founder of StoppingSocialism.com.	False	False	False	False	False
Perpetual presidential candidate Bernie Sanders continues his Gimme tour with more and more promises to steal from the poor to give to the rich. This week Bernie met Britta. Britta is concerned about climate change in particular you nasty vile carnivores out there. Britta used her one opportunity to quiz a presidential candidate to ask aboutmeat. Okay. Okay. One second while I get my question. Okay so as you probably know animal agriculture is to blame for the majority of climate change and is the leading cause of deforestation water and air pollution and biodiversity loss. With that being known what do you plan on doing to ensure that Americans limit their consumption of animal products? Climate change is the leading cause of every bad thing on the earth is one hell of a You probably already know Britta. Got any facts to back that up or are we just making assumptions? Because as the great Samuel L. Jackson once uttered on film Never make assumptions. They only end up making an ass out of u and mption'. But Britta doesnt stop there. She goes on to cite Germany as a shining example of who we should want to be like. You may be completely shocked to learn that Bernie Sanders responded by affirming that indeed America needs to be more like the nation that brought us Hitler the Holocaust and the VW Bug only one of those things is good by the way. In case you needed some clarity. Sanders did not say outright that a meat tax is an official policy of his platform but he did give it the old politician shine indicating that he would support such a notion and that also hes interested in helping farmers become more aggressive about combatting climate change. Yes Im sure farmers will be very excited for your help which will be tantamount to them giving up their land their livestock and their livelihood effectively causing a nationwide famine but heysocialists got to socialist. Thank you for the question and its a good question. All I can say is if we believe as I do and you do that climate change is real were going to have to tackle it in every single area including agriculture. Okay? And in fact one of the things we want to do with our farmers out there is help them become more aggressive and able to help us combat climate change rather than contribute to it. So we will certainly youre right weve got to look at agriculture weve got to look at every cause of the crisis that we face. No word yet on if Sanders will be getting equally aggressive with his own multiple vacation properties.	False	False	False	False	False
